ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, Members, good morning! We begin with the continuation of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly. I ask that those Members of Parliament who are in the Chamber take your seat so that we can begin. Thank you. I inform you that they are detained and today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Aloise Posedel, Roberto Battelli, Mag. Janez Kramberger, Maria Pozsonec, Cveta Zalokar Orazem and Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. And we're moving on to 16. Period of the day - it's on a defensive proposal for a law amending the law on war invalids, after a reduced procedure. In doing so, I warn or inform you that a total time of 40 minutes is foreseen for the debate. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Mirano Ptræ. With regard to this law, the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposed law, Mr Miran Potrč, for an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go, Comrade Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues! Despite the fact that the mother's labour body believes that the proposed law should not be adopted, I expect that the national assembly will not adopt such a proposal. The proposed law, which I have tabled with my colleagues and colleagues, is in line with all the criteria for which the Prime Minister, on our question, has assessed that the government should not reject the opposition's proposals in the future without sound arguments. On the basis of the specific warnings of the affected participant in the self-sustainment war, the bill provides that the period for the recognition of the status of a war invalid shall be reopened for two years from the entry into force of the law, that all requirements submitted after 1.1.1998 shall be considered to be timely and that administrative units shall be brought into service on the basis of them. This would only allow a smaller number of victims who were disabled as a result of injuries or diseases resulting from the period of the self-sustainment war to be recognised after 31.12.1997, to manage the procedure and determine the eligibility of status under this law. The arguments justifying the adoption of the law are the fact that it is a matter of recognising the rights of the citizens who participated in the independent war. The fact that, in all cases so far, the State has extended and reopened the original time limits for the timeliness of the application in respect of the recognition of rights under war laws or for the correction of injustices. And the third time. The indisputable conclusion that the proposed law cannot have significant consequences for several cases and possibly a few hundred thousand tolars per month, and therefore the lack of an accurate amount of obligation cannot be an exception to this law for refusal. I am pleased that the government has already informed the affected that its proposals are taken into account in the Government's proposal for solutions to this law. It pleases me, but at the same time it convinces me that there are no valid reasons for rejecting this law. Let me therefore state an important argument. If we do not adopt this law at this meeting, it will be possible to determine the rights of the injured person if we adopt it, and the rights of the injured person may be determined and recognised immediately. But if we wait for a new bill, maybe these people won't get that right for a while. In its reply to my question, the competent ministry replied on 25 October that the proposed amendments to the law are indeed in the process, but it wants comprehensive systemic changes, on which the views of stakeholders cannot be easily simplified and this unification process is still ongoing. Therefore, it is realistic to expect that the government will still coordinate the comprehensive content of the law and also this exceptional example for some people who have become disabled in the self-sustainment war, and the status of the disabled is not recognised, and will not be saved for some time. Therefore, the re-opening of the deadline in the context of the adaptation of the whole law may be kept for months. If we adopt this law today, the disabled will have their rights. Since the proposed solutions to the government are not disputed either, because it is right for me to allow their rights without advertising, because the Prime Minister has also promised that the government will not reject the opposition's constructive proposals without need, I expect you to vote against the proposal of the labour force and thus allow the adoption of the law. He also directly asked you to harm a disabled person with his letter to all parliamentary groups, and I expect you to at least accommodate his requests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u3	My friend Potts, thank you for explaining the bill. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first position will be presented by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Ambassador Stanislav Brenčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Nice to meet you! The Group of Applicants, by amending Article 121(2) of the War Disability Act, also wishes to enable those who have missed the deadline for submitting the application laid down by the law to obtain the status of war invalids and who have been affected by the effects of war on Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we support the intention of the applicants in the sense that it is necessary for those members of the territorial defence who have acquired or suffered irreparable health defects because of their military duties, to recognise the status of a war invalid on the basis of the disability found. This should primarily apply to those who have not been subject to a period laid down by law to which an application for recognition of a status has not been made by the applicant. According to the government's assurance that, as we see in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, and the amendments to the War Disability Act, which was envisaged for adoption by the government's programme in 2005, we do not know why this issue has been solved in a way that will not trigger unjustified approaches to the requirements for recognition of the status or that the amendment of the law does not release the possibility of doing things in the sense of domination. For these reasons, in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a decision of the home working body, but we expect the Government to put a more comprehensive proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on disabled persons into the procedure of the National Assembly as soon as possible, in which part it will also incorporate a solution to the issue that the applicants want to resolve today's proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representative of the Ministry! The basic law on disabled persons entered into force on 1 January 1996 and was amended twice in 1997, but both of these novelties did not cover an extension of the deadline. Due to the expiry of that deadline, several war invalids, military and civilian disabled persons in the war for Slovenia, who suffered irreparable health consequences in the defence of Slovenia, have passed the law because of their own ignorance or long-term procedures for official identification of health conditions, they have missed the deadline. The requirements for obtaining the status of a war invalid and, consequently, the rights under the basic law, which were lodged after 31.12.1997 and 1.1.1998, were also rejected. That's not the last thing we've been confirmed at the Ministry. But let me tell you, they don't have the Ministry of Information on how many applications have been rejected. I wonder, of course, how the Ministry can refuse applications or better, how the ministry can also promise a comprehensive law on this basis. We're talking about the disabled of war, and those who are, and I'm going to tell the guilty that our country is now independent. And I believe there is no man who would think it was a sin to defend the country. However, it is an obvious sin to ask the State for help, even though it is justified. In accordance with the rule of law and respect for human rights, the proposed amendment of the War Disabled Act allows members of the territorial defence who participated in the defence of Slovenia in 1991 to submit applications for recognition of the status of disabled persons after 1.1.1998 as part of the extension of the time-limit. Novela, I will also say and highlight, only prolongs or talks about extending the time limit for submitting a request. And allow me, this National Assembly has adopted several laws in the past mandate and even in this mandate, which have spoken of extending the deadline. Let me mention the deadline for the construction of motorways for the allocation of value vouchers, for the acquisition of subsidies in the event of natural disasters. Last but not least, we have adopted a new law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network, the amendment of the law on enforcement, insurance, the amendment of the law on higher education and could also be listed. For a year and a half, in fact, every year we keep listening to government promises about how we will have a comprehensively regulated area: the law on the prevention of domestic violence, the veterinary, the economic chamber and, last but not least, the disabled are here today. According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, the Government does not support an incomprehensible law. And this is the same government, which repeatedly stresses the importance of Slovenian independence and independence of statehood. Although the government is tactful, it is aware that in such cases it is not wise to say no, out loud, of course. That's why he's using another tactic, and the government is going to set this whole area straight. I wonder when the government will draw up a law that should have been drawn up by now, that whole law. And how, once again, I ask, can the government, with the promise of an integrated solution to this issue, the government that does not know the rejected or rejected applications actually solve the problems of people who have missed the deadline. At this point, I must also publicly agree with the opinion of the State Council Commission for Social Activities. The Ministry's representative referred to arguments in his favour which, in fact, have nothing to do with this novelty. And allow me to conclude that if I make an observation at the end from the words of the ministry's representative, who is also with us today, it can be concluded that the amounts of disabled persons in the self-serving war for Slovenia are actually next on the government's list of austerity measures. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I'll finish. [[...]] You know, talk about increasing existing imbalances when we talk about disabled people in the liberation war for Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u7	Time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u8	it's not moral and the government should be aware of that. [[...]] In the Slovenian National [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u9	Time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u10	We will not support the conclusion of the parent's working body. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you. We continue to present our views. The position will be presented by the SDS Group of Members, Mr Marjan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u12	Your Honor, I'll be very brief, of course. In the draft law, the applicant shall extend the time limit for the application for recognition of the status of military war invalid. In principle, the government supports the bill's proposal, but considers it weak and urgently needs to be complemented. It proposes a full revision of the law it is already preparing. Therefore, I will not support the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Comrade Ljubo Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representative of the government! The War Disability Act entered into force on 1.1.1996 and incorporated four laws in its motherland, each of which regulated individual areas. In time, it became apparent that the law provided for too short a time limit for the application for recognition of the status of a military war invalid. Thus, the proposal for a law amending the law on disabled persons of war, by amending Article 121, touches the area governing the protection of victims of military aggression against the Republic of Slovenia in 1991 and members of the territorial defences involved in the defence of the Republic of Slovenia in 1991, allows them to submit an application for recognition of the status of military disabled persons until 31.12.2007 within the extended time-limit. The reason for the extension is that some members of the territorial defence who participated in the defence of the Republic of Slovenia and suffered irreparable health consequences were not identified for objective reasons until 31.12.1997, which meant that their claim was rejected due to the legal provision. As a result, these persons were prevented from submitting a request for recognition of the status of a military war invalid within the prescribed time limit. In dealing with the law on the home labour body, the government has, as many times so far, given a standard formulation, why it does not support the amendment of the law proposed by the opposition. It is interesting, however, that the government in principle supports the solutions proposed by the opposition by amending the law, but considers them to be flawed and needs to be complemented. At the same time, it does not indicate in which part this brief and clear and unequivocal amendment to Article 121 is flawed and in which part it needs to be supplemented. The government further explains that there are no financial resources available in the 2006 and 2007 budget and continues to take a comprehensive approach to this area and that the changes and additions to the Law on War Disability, which are currently in inter-resort coordination, will also address this issue of the extended deadline. It is interesting, however, that the government continues to ignore the opposition's proposals, showing all its arrogance from these proposals. In considering this law, however, the contradiction of its explanations is also apparent why it does not support this amendment to extend the time limit, even though it is supported in principle. It speaks of the absence of funds in the budget, but at the same time points out that the new law that will regulate this area is in a similar way as the opposition proposes, already in inter-departmental coordination. Therefore, it is logical to ask when the government will settle this area if there are no funds in the budget, unless this is settled in 2008, which is not acceptable for us. Since we are convinced that the amendment to Article 121 of the Law on War Disability is in line with the rule of law and respect for fundamental human rights and allows members of the territorial defence who have participated in the defence of the Republic of Slovenia to submit a request for recognition of the status of military disabled persons by 31 December 2007, and since the Government in principle supports this change and is preparing its amendment and supplementing the Law on War Disability, we believe that the proposed amendment is no harm to the State, but it is the desire that matters be settled as soon as possible in favour of individuals - it is for them. This is about the fact that, on the basis of the amended law adopted, the affected will be able to exercise the right to the status of a military war invalid today, and they will not have to wait for a government law that is not yet in the parliamentary procedure. For the sake of this, we will support this change. However, colleagues and colleagues are still asked to reconsider whether they would not support the proposed amendment, which the government in principle supports, and join in the promise of Prime Minister Janez Janša, who, at the time of his appointment, said that the government would strive to adopt all good proposals, regardless of who would be their author, opposition or position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you, Comrade Germich. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by the Magi. Spending. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u16	Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law amending the law on disabled persons is accompanied by a second reading at the national assembly of the decision of the home labour body that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Such a decision by the Committee has certainly been the result of a negative government opinion drawn up by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Nothing helped that the proposal was supported by the Council of State and that the government also acknowledged that the purpose of the proposal was good, namely Members and Members of the Social Democrats. Moreover, even the government coalition in the planned new system law on disabled persons is expected to fully address this issue and align the amount of rights under the law on disabled persons with the limits applicable under the law on pension and disability insurance. It will also prevent the accumulation of pension and disability insurance rights and similar rights under the War Disabled Act. The announced law in the Government's 2006 work programme in Rapporteur 13 is not to be traced, at least under the predicted heading no, this is the War Disabled Act. Therefore, the Government's principled support remains halfway. If the problem is a single person, he admits there's no reason to delay. The reference to the many imbalances and shortcomings identified by the government in the implementation of the current law on disabled persons of war should be left to the system law. There is no reasonable reason why the issue of the time-limits for the exercise of the status and rights of a war invalid or a civilian person with disabilities of war as a result of a health disability caused by a disease or a worsening of the disease obtained in the course of military aggression against the Republic of Slovenia in 1991 should be regulated in the context of a comprehensive revision of this law. Since it is a relatively small circle of beneficiaries - I admit that a precise number cannot be predicted, but already the circle of beneficiaries is very small, i.e. it is around 67 - it is not possible to adopt a government position that the existing imbalances will increase further. We believe that the necessary resources could be found in the budget, although they are not planned for this purpose. There is also a second observation in the air, which is that the law is flawed because it has no financial implications mentioned. Your Honor, allow me to quote only a government bill adopted by the National Assembly on 14 March last year. However, this is the law on changes and additions to the law in the correction of injustices. This is written in the financial implications assessment: The financial consequences of the bill due to the indeterminate number of possible beneficiaries cannot be definitively assessed, as they will become permanent, i.e. the consequences of the Commission's decisions and so on. Therefore, it is not possible and it can only be indicatively assessed that almost all alleged beneficiaries of the Republic of Slovenia have already submitted those applications, so only a small number of justified requests can be expected. And if we now compare the financial implications of the law, in this case of the Social Democrats, the financial consequences of the bill due to the indeterminate number of possible new requirements for recognition of the status of military war invalid cannot be accurately assessed. However, we expect that the new requirements for status will not significantly increase the number of beneficiaries. This is why I hope that Members and Members of the Coalition will also support the proposal of the Social Democrats and vote against the proposed decision of the labour force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you. Next is a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members, mag. Franz Capuder, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Chairman. Members and Members of Parliament. The current law on disabled persons of war was last amended in 1997. Following the current regime, it was possible to enforce the status and rights of a war invalid or a civil disabled person of war on the basis of a disease-related health defect or a worsening of the disease obtained in the course of military aggression against the Republic of Slovenia by 31.12.1997 at the latest. Some of the participants in the war for Slovenia, however, were found to be disabled after this date. As a result, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, at the initiative of some of the applicants, has started to prepare changes to the law, as there have also been a number of imbalances and shortcomings identified in the implementation of the current law on disabled persons. Therefore, the Government considered that the issue of extending deadlines was better regulated in the context of a comprehensive revision of this law. Further enlargement of the beneficiary circle could further increase the existing imbalances, as has been established so far, without appropriate adjustments to the whole system, or the case of the beneficiary mentioned by the applicants is not from today and could have been resolved in the previous government, which knew this problem. For these reasons, in New Slovenia-Christian People's Party we will support the conclusion of the parent's working body. We expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare, as soon as possible, amendments and additions to the War Disabled Act, which will fully and in a balanced manner resolve open issues, including an extended deadline for the submission of applications for recognition of the status of a war invalid.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the proposal for a decision today in the framework of the vote or half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, no later than 13.50 a.m. Until then, I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law supplementing the law on the prohibition of production and transport of asbestos products and on the provision of funds for the prevention of asbestos production in an insecure manner. We'll deal with the law on short notice. I am pleased to inform you that a total time of 45 minutes is foreseen for this debate. The draft law was tabled by Mr Samo Bevk and Mr Breda Pečan. With regard to this law, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposed law to Mr Sam Bevk for further explanation of the proposal. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. Almost 10 years ago, the National Assembly adopted the so-called asbestos law. It ensured the cessation of the production of asbestos products, the replacement of asbestos production with asbestos and ensured social security and the necessary resources for workers who were exposed to the harmful effects of asbestos dust at the end of this production. 10 years after this law was passed, however, two years ago in Slovenia we discovered a new range of asbestos patients in Slovenian railway workers. This is a very alarming information that at a time when asbestos has been blacklisted and excluded from production and use in the European Union for a number of years, we find a new focal point in a company that owns 100% of the country. This is already a negative experience from last year, when we witnessed a non-professional demolition of the celebratory zinc factory, where asbestos dust uncontrolledly entered the human immediate environment. Since 1996, we have changed the existing law three times since the National Assembly. Last January, last year, at the initiative of colleague Breda Pecan and on my initiative, we extended the validity of the existing law for 1 year. At the time, we adopted the law with the consent of all parliamentary groups, mainly because the government promised to prepare a new law that would address asbestos issues in Slovenia in a broad and comprehensive manner. The government's work plan stated that the government would adopt the law by mid-2005 and that by 21 November last year it would also be adopted in the National Assembly. Since the government had not adopted the law by mid-June last year, I asked the Mag. Janez Drobnič, who is now in charge of this area, is how far away he is with the preparation of this law. The Minister then promised that the proposal was practically ready and that the deadline set by the Government in its 2005 work plan would also be adopted. According to the Minister's assurances, the proposal for a law is intended to deal more broadly with asbestos issues, namely compensation and compensation for the causes of the disease resulting from contact with asbestos, either for workers in companies and residents who have been exposed to asbestos dust in the area of production facilities. When nothing happened by the deadline, the Social Democrats re-imposed the law.The fundamental objective we want to achieve by supplementing the law is to extend the law until the end of 2006, thereby filling the legal void, which the government also recognises in explaining the new law, and to enable the withdrawal of funds from the state budget. In addition, we are increasing resources to implement this law from 350 million to 692 million tolars. The new law is supported by the State Council, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Asbestos Patients, the Society of Asbestos and enterprises where asbestos has been used in production in the past. Experts in Europe predict that in the next 20 to 30 years, about 250,000 people will die from asbestos in the European Union, and almost half a million people will die from asbestos, according to the darkest forecasts. In Slovenia, 23 000 workers were exposed to asbestos dust. Due to the very long latent period until the outbreak of one of the asbestos diseases, experts estimate that the peak of asbestos disease in Slovenia will be expected around 2025. In addition to the Soča valley, there are two major hotspots in Slovenia, Ljubljana and Maribor, some of which include Izola, as well as a number of smaller ones. Training staff in the field of occupational medicine and asbestos diagnostics and raising awareness of management in enterprises where workers have been exposed to asbestos will also result in more early retirement and compensation requirements. We certainly have a real epidemic ahead of us in this area. The adoption of the novel would give us valuable time to harmonise the new asbestos law, because it is inconsistent with both the social partners and the medical profession. I therefore suggest that you, fellow Members of Parliament and fellow Members, support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you, colleague Bevk, for further presentation of the law. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Srečko Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues! While in all other activities in Slovenia we can identify 25-30 occupational diseases annually, asbestos disease is detected in 1400 professional patients. As it is said, the latent age of this disease is very high and can be expected in the future for so many more patients with this disease. It is a disgrace that the mother's working body adopted such a decision, taking into account the fact that, in fact, the law that we extended on 26 January 2005 was passed with full agreement. Today we have so-called inequity when we do not have one law or another, if it is precisely with 100% assurance that the government ensures that it will essentially send its amendment to the adoption procedure to the National Assembly. The Act, which was adopted in 1996 in the National Assembly, also effectively prescribed the necessary amount of money and the conditions for eliminating the consequences of asbestos production. That didn't happen until today. As we have heard from the previous interlocutor, this production continues in some companies, and in particular is very largely present in the field of Slovenian Railways. So the government didn't take care of these consequences here either. More. In fact, it is also embarrassing that the government has allocated smaller funds in the 2006 and 2007 budget than it was earmarked in 2005 for 350 million and 336 million. Where that money went, I can tell you. To the army. People are not important to us anyway, citizens and citizens are not important. Some other resources are important. A comprehensive removal of the consequences of asbestos dust, which can endanger any household, is necessary, because we know that we have old water pipes in cities that are made of asbestos pipes, that the cover is also asbestos. And according to the government's promises, in such a serious solution to this problem, we would expect a slightly more serious and more constructive attitude towards this population of citizens and citizens affected by this disease. People are dying. It happens every day and we don't give a shit. According to the government's promises, the law, as I said before, should also provide a comprehensive solution to the problem and be adopted in the course of last year. With such funds as are planned, we can see that unfortunately this will not be possible to do so. We will, of course, make amendments to the law that is in the government procedure because it is even worse than the existing one that has ceased to exist. It is a shame to listen to government representatives in public information means to deceive people and say that they have actually done everything they can to prevent this agony. Nothing's done, it's worse. That's what the profession warns us about, but nobody cares. That is why, of course, we will not support the decision of the parent working body and, of course, we will support with all our votes a proposal that increases the earmarking to 692 million tolars, which represents exactly this amount, for which we have found a consensus in the National Assembly to amend the law or to extend the law from last year's period until the end of last year's period. Now, once again, I stress that in essence it is necessary to solve this problem immediately, because we do not have any law that would also allow diagnosis to patients who are sick or who come from this disease to health centres. I appeal to the Minister to essentially make sure that these two committees, appointed by the Ministry of Health, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] You work more up-to-date because only 5 to 10 patients come to diagnosis every year, which is embarrassing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Vice-President Vasja Klavora will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u24	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! In our parliamentary group, we will not support the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the prohibition of the production and transport of asbestos products and on the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production. The new law deals with compensation for asbestos issues, 4 billion tolls for compensation and the acquisition of the insurance period in the period 2005-2008, which according to the applicants is underfunded for this purpose. The draft budget contains 350 million SITs in 2006 and 336 million SITs in 2007. Only SIT 220 million of the estimated SIT 692 million was used in 2004. At the same time, this prolongs the validity of this law at least until the end of 2006. Applicants shall assess the necessary level of funding from around 800 million to billions of SIT per year, even though funds are already provided for this purpose in the budget for the next two years. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the proposal for a law is not set within the framework of a comprehensive system of legal treatment and the resolution of asbestos issues. We're well aware of that. And we are also aware of what we said last year that a law should be drawn up that would take into account all that we have said and what most of us think. The law should also include a number of amendments made by trade union organizations of asbestos patients, the society of asbestos patients, as well as some compromise solutions for employers. We should work on this as soon as possible, and especially within the framework of the parental committee. In our opinion, therefore, the asbestos area should be fully regulated, both in terms of restructuring asbestos production into inequity and taking on social responsibility due to the resulting consequences of asbestos work, in terms of compensation settlement until 2040. However, experts' assessments can indicate or expect an increase in the rate of asbestos disease to peak around 2025 and additional funding will have to be provided for this purpose. In the Group of Members, it is recalled that only 3.3 billion Slovenian Tolars have been spent in the budget, as we know that the country has spent only 3.3 billion Slovenian Tolars on these procedures of communication and recognition of damages to citizens between 1996 and 2004 and the rest of the funds have been redistributed or used for other purposes. We are aware that health is the most important value of life. Therefore, we have no doubt in our Group of Members that all exposed asbestos must be provided with social security, better, healthier environment, and, last but not least, adequate compensation for all beneficiaries. In our view, a more transparent record should also be provided for all patients who are sick, i.e. a meaningful introduction of a register to list all patients who are already ill, as well as those in whom this diagnosis is expected. We believe that matters need to be clarified, including the effective functioning of inspection services. We believe that this asbestos problem covers a broad dimension of resolution and protection of all asbestos-related cases. We expect to talk about this on the parental committee and also to discuss the proposed amendments which affect the law tabled by the Government and therefore I think, and this is also the position of our parliamentary group, so that we will only be in line with all the social partners, with all the comments that have been made, such a new law has also been confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u25	Thank you. We are here to present the position of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u26	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues, respected second-in-arms! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will not support the proposal for a law because the proposal only prolongs the validity of the law until the end of 2006. It does not, however, bring about any systemic additions that will solve the consequences of working with asbestos in the long term and in a comprehensive manner. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are well aware of the asbestos problems in Slovenia, which are not yet completed by restructuring production. However, the consequences remain in the health, labour, social and environmental fields. Due to the long latent period, the asbestos problem in our country will be present in the coming years and decades. And that is why a new law is needed, which will solve this problem in a comprehensive and, above all, in the long term. In particular, the Act introduced an immediate and one-off cessation of the production of asbestos cement products and phased out and replaced other asbestos production into asbestos and phased out the turnover and use of other asbestos-containing products. It also provided for aid to companies in restructuring, retirement under more favourable conditions, technological surpluses. Asbestos patients, however, were able to agree with the government commission on appropriate compensation and to apply for retirement under more favourable conditions. The existing law, which has been amended three times so far, only partially solves the very complex asbestos problem and the consequences of working with asbestos. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are convinced that a new law is needed and not only the additions to the existing one, which only partially regulates the matter under consideration. We need a law that will systematically, comprehensively, consistently, expertly and socially responsiblely address asbestos issues, both from the point of view of the victims, companies and countries, as well as in the context of predictable estimated requirements and needs and budgetary capabilities. We need a law that will provide satisfactory solutions in the long term in the interest of people affected by exposure to the harmful effects of asbestos dust. Such a law has already been drawn up and forwarded to the National Assembly for admission, and in the 2006 and 2007 budget, it has also identified a dedicated budget item at the level of the estimated needs, which has also been approved by the State Assembly with a budget. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has always actively cooperated with the union, with economic companies and the government in the substantive drafting of the new law, because we believe that only the system law is a suitable legal basis for the long-term resolution of asbestos problems, as well as the legal basis for the implementation of dedicated budgetary spending. For all these reasons, the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposed additions to the law will not be supported by the Parliamentary Group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you. Ambassador Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors are here! It is difficult to talk about the use of asbestos and the consequences of this use, as many human destinys, lost lives, and the suffering of individuals are unfortunately involved. In 1898, the British Occupational Protection Inspector Lucy Dean pointed out the harmful effects of asbestos dust. Unfortunately, these early warnings were not given greater attention. For decades asbestos has thus been considered a miracle mine with a versatile utility. It was only after the severe consequences of exposure to asbestos dust and many tragic losses of human life in the late 80s of the previous century that measures were taken to combat the use of asbestos. It was only in 1998 and 1999 that the European Union countries finally banned the use of all types and forms of asbestos, that is, more than a century after the first warnings of asbestos toxicity. In our country, too, it was not until 1996 that we banned the production and transport of asbestos products, restructured asbestos production into asbestos and resolved certain social issues of workers who were exposed to the harmful effects of asbestos dust. The Act on the Prohibition of the Production and Transport of Asbestos Products and on the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production in asbestos does, despite the fact that a late central role has been adopted in solving the asbestos problem in our country. In spite of the novelties, the years of implementation have also shown shortcomings and inconsistencies in certain legal solutions. The previous LDS-led government was aware that after eight years of implementation of the law, this issue needs to be addressed by a new more comprehensive law. Therefore, at the beginning of 2004, it established a special Inter-Resort Working Group, which prepared a comprehensive review of the implementation of this Act, a forecast of the assessment of the sick and a starting point for the drafting of a new law. As a result of the end of the term of office, the previous government failed to prepare, which is why the current government has taken over the task. In January 2005, in the National Assembly, we had already extended the law on the prohibition of the production and transport of asbestos products and on the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production to an inequity. But since the new government has been preparing the new law for too long, this time we are ahead of a similar task as we were a year ago. While on 12 December last year, the Government submitted a proposal for a new law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work to the legislative process, before that, Ambassador Breda Pečan and Member Samo Bevk submitted a proposal for a law extending the law on the prohibition of the production and transport of asbestos products and on the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production until the end of this year. We are deciding on this proposal today. The Government argues in its arguments for rejecting this proposal that the existing law is still in force, that it is implemented and that there is no legal gap. In the LDS, we believe that a legally more correct solution to the implementation of the new law would be the adoption of a law supplementing the law on the prohibition of the production and transport of asbestos products and on the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production in an incorruptible manner. Another strong argument for the adoption of the proposed law is the fact that the proposal for a new law to remedy the consequences of asbestos work has received a number of comments from social partners, companies, professional associations and trade unions and the association and society of asbestos patients. It is obvious that the government has put him in the legislative process despite failing to comply with all interested parties. The adoption of the law under consideration would relieve the government of time pressure and allow it, with all interested parties, to prepare a more consistent proposal for a new law to remedy the consequences of working with asbestos. At the same time, the government itself claims that the new law on the elimination of the consequences of working with asbestos systematically, comprehensively, consistently, scientifically and socially responsiblely regulates the distribution of the burden of working with asbestos resulting from the past use and production of asbestos in our country. And it is a social responsibility on the part of the government to bring the legal solutions as much as possible into line with all those affected. For both of these reasons, we will not support the decision in the LDS Member Club that the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the prohibition of the production and transport of asbestos products and the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production is inviolable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you. Dear Members and Members, you have probably noticed that our fellow Member, Ljubo Germič, has exceeded the time for 4 minutes, which is not his fault, of course. The problem is our timing. I'll ask if this is going to happen, let every speaker pay particular attention to keeping his time. We continue to present our views. Member Breda Pecan has the floor to present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u30	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues! Not only in the Group of Social Democrats, but also because of the fact that the law was introduced by my colleague, Sam Bevk, and I co-signed it, but also because we believe that there is an urgent need to fill the legal void. On 1 January this year, when the amendments to the law were simplified, the asbestos law ceased to apply, which was adopted last year, and until the adoption of a system law that will fully address the whole problem of asbestos patients we have and will have them in Slovenia, which has been drafted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why, of course, we support these amendments to the law, and we also believe that it is not good that the Committee has adopted a decision and also proposed it to the National Assembly for adoption that this law is not suitable for further consideration. It is also about the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also in its explanation of the system law, if we can specifically say that this is the first law that deals specifically with the problem of occupational diseases, namely special occupational diseases, but nevertheless comprehensively solves the problem of patients, and the government, in explanation, says that there is a legal void on the issue of compensation and early retirement for asbestos patients as of January 1st this year. If the government itself says that there has been a legal void since 1 January this year, it would be logical and right to say that it is necessary to accept for a transitional period until the adoption of a new law on asbestos, or amendment of the old law on asbestos, and even this would be even more appropriate not to wait or not to allow the law to be passed by Members, either one or the other, but to submit it itself. That is why, although not with regard to this law, but with the new law that the Government has drawn up and has already proposed, I would also point out that we support the new law in principle, but we do not support the way it solves the problem of asbestos patients. It is about the fact that the law deals again only with patients who have suffered from asbestos from various kinds of occupations and forgets all those inhabitants, as well as non-nationals of the Republic of Slovenia who have suffered asbestos as normal civilians who have not had direct contact with asbestos in their profession, but in the living environment in which they are. Here again, let me say that it is not only those who live near the Anho cement plant, but also all those who have been exposed to asbestos particles in the course of their lives. These are, for example, although for once it is also a sort of occupational illness, certainly no one thinks about it, for example, police officers, customs officers, all those who worked on roads where there was a lot of braking when cars had brake linings, also working with asbestos. That is why we call on the Group of Social Democrats, all of us, also all the other Members, not to support the decision proposed by the Committee. In view of this, you will allow the law to go into procedure, to be adopted in a reduced procedure, and that all those asbestos patients who do not come before the Commission at this time may receive the resources we finally have in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006. Thank you and please help and reject the proposed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u31	Thank you. We are here to present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Mag. Franz Capuder, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Chairman. Messengers and Members! In 1996, the National Assembly adopted a law prohibiting the production and transport of asbestos products. The law is intended to provide funds for the restructuring of asbestos production in an incorruptible manner and to ensure social security and the necessary resources for workers who were exposed to the harmful effects of asbestos dust at the time of termination and during production. Since 1996, this law has been amended three times in the National Assembly to explain to the applicants that the 1996 law no longer applies. These novels made it possible to pay obligations to beneficiaries in accordance with the law. However, despite these amendments, the law has repeatedly stalled the implementation of the law because there has been insufficient funding in the current budgets. Due to the backlog of the necessary funding in 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003, the country allocated additional funds totalling around 1.2 billion tolars in 2004. Some 700 million were planned in 2005, and some 220 million were actually used. According to the 2005 consumption, the government has been artificially planning around 350 million tolars for 2006. At the time of the examination of the law on the prohibition of production and transport of asbestos products on the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee, a law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, was also introduced in the consideration of the National Assembly. I am confident that this law will systematically, comprehensively and consistently regulate the distribution of the burdens of asbestos work resulting from the past use and production of asbestos in the Republic of Slovenia, in general, not only in a narrowly limited area. For we all recognize in order that the consequences of the use and work with asbestos and asbestos products are wider, and are not limited only to the greater or wider territory of Anhovega. They also appear where it has not been discussed years ago, or we have closed our eyes before. No one has ever wondered whether they are entitled to compensation or at least adequate protection, including workers from Donita, Termike, Isolirke, TVT, employees of construction companies working with asbestos products, railway workers, where a new focal point has recently been discovered and could also be listed. In New Slovenia-Christian People's Party we will not support the proposed amendment to the law because, as we have heard on the committee, it is unnecessary and does not solve anything or the law in its operation is very narrow and does not cover all beneficiaries. The existing law on the prohibition of the production and transport of asbestos products is in force and in the 2006 State budget it is allocated money for its implementation. However, we hope to adopt a law in the National Assembly as soon as possible that will fully address the consequences of working with asbestos.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you. Ambassador Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Well, today we are talking more about the new law, which is already in the procedure, than the law to which the decision of the parent working body relates. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group of Members, it is regrettable that, since the Government, before the draft law was tabled by the two Members, has introduced its law into the procedure and has not withdrawn the proposal from the table, because at this meeting of the National Assembly, it is already possible to consider a government proposal which deals with issues related to the consequences of the production, transport and use of asbestos products in a much more systematic and comprehensive manner with regard to the existing situation in this area and not only in the work that the proposer of this proposal wants, and this is to determine the extent of the means to implement the existing law for 2006. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for a decision by the home working body that the proposal for a law submitted by two Members is not a suitable basis for further consideration. However, we will focus on the consideration and adoption of a proposal for a new government law, which is already included in the context of the second reading at the meeting of the home working body. On the basis of possible reasoned substantive comments on the Government's proposal also by civil institutions, it will be possible to adopt a law at the February meeting of the National Assembly that will address in the most neutral way all the key issues related to the consequences of the excessive impact of asbestos on people, of course within the framework of the country's reasonable capacity. As we say, we will support the proposal for the conclusion of the parent's working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will decide on the proposal for a decision in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, within the voting point, half an hour after the end of the 23rd item of the agenda or at the latest at 13.50 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 23. Dotko - Defence Proposal for a Law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia, Dars, D. D. For the purpose of renting credits and issuing debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Programme of Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia amounting to 1,030.15 million Euros, which we are defending under urgent procedure. I would like to inform you, however, that a total time of 3 hours and 20 minutes is foreseen for this debate. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. We'll wait. Meanwhile, the Minister of Transport of Mags joined us. Janez Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, have a good day! In the Resolution on the National Road Construction Programme adopted by the National Assembly in February 2004, the Republic of Slovenia expressed its intention to build a motorway network, allowing for adequate internalities, in particular the inter-regional integration of the State and its appropriate integration into international road traffic flows. The construction of this network is also part of 25 sections of motorways, fast roads and connecting roads on virtually all motorways, which form part of the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways and the annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways for 2005, to which this National Assembly gave its consent in April 2005 and for the year 2006 adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the end of November 2005. The proposed law aims to allow for the timely provision of all necessary resources, funds that are a prerequisite for the award of works, the start or completion of the construction of those sections in accordance with the national programme for the construction of motorways, the annual development and reconstruction plan for 2006 and with the accelerated deadlines for the construction of motorways in Pomurje, which were determined by a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 29.7.2004. The adoption of the law will allow the rental of the envisaged loans or the issuance of debt securities, with the provision of investment transfers from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia closing financial structures for the construction of those motorway sections in the law itself. This will provide resources to build a total of 90% of the length of the main national highway construction programme or 516.5 kilometres of motorways and other roads from the planned 572.6 kilometres in the basic programme. This will fully build the highway in the fifth European corridor, which runs from Kopra, with a foot to Fernettičev, via Ljubljana and Maribor to Pink on the Slovenian-Hungarian border and in the 10th European corridor from Karavank through Ljubljana to Obrežje. As well as part 10.A of the European Corridor from Šentilj on the Austrian-Slovenian border to Drazenec. The Vipavski Krak fast road will be built from Raztrtega to Šampetra pri Novi Gorica and a fast road from Slovenia Bistrica to Ptuj. The total investment value of these sections of motorways, fast roads and connecting roads of these motorway sections is 2 billion 182.86m euros. The funds to finance these sections will be provided from own resources of EUR 371,77 million, credits already rented amounting to EUR 780,94 million and foreseen financial loans or debt securities issued totalling EUR 1030,15 million. A total of EUR 47.57 million, or EUR 11.4 billion, is required in 2006 for the construction of motorway sections in the Annual Development Plan and for the renewal of 2006 loans or debt securities. The bill thus allows for a stable indebtedness of Dars, d.d. with a balanced structure and efficiency of resources that do not burden resources for the construction of motorways during intensive construction period, that is until 2010. Finally, during the period from 1.1.1994 to 31.12.2005, the national highway construction programme was implemented in the amount of 3 billion 281 million euros, while Darsa’s debt to finance the national highway construction programme amounted to EUR 515.13 million on 31.12.2005 following the Bank of Slovenia’s medium-term course. Thank you so much for this opening part.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was considered by the Transport Committee as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Ambassador Franz Kangler, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Dear Members, Members, representatives of the government and Darsa! At its 14th emergency meeting, on 31 January, the Committee of the National Transport Assembly held a second reading of the proposal for a law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia to rent credits and issue debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, amounting to EUR 1,030.15 million, which was forwarded to the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the legislative procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that Dars is indebted in the current year in the expected amount due to a significantly lower level of budgetary provision than planned in the national highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia and laid down in Article 2 of the Law on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of state roads as set out in the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. At the time of that presentation of Dars' debt requirements at the proposed level, the question is raised by the applicant's application for a significant deviation in the provision of funds as provided for under the previously cited law, which is not presented by the applicant. Nor does it present the consequences of the partial waiver of the projected amount of own resources for the full realization of the planned undertaking and the deviations from the financial structure on which the national programme is based, the means of repayment of the envisaged loans and the issued bonds, are to be provided with the resources of the Dars tax concession, which means the selected tolls and the reduced costs of public services in the framework of Dars, which the government also does not explain. In view of the concerns raised by the legal service, the representatives of Dars and the government explain the matter. In accordance with Articles 126 and 144 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport Committee held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and adopted its amendments. The debate on Article 1 of the draft law raised issues already addressed by the National Committee for Budgetary Control and other public finances, relating to the change in the way in which the programme is financed and the implementation of highways from the main budget resources of the annual amount of SIT around 35 billion to a significant borrowing debt. Dars could only repay loans by providing 40% of the increased volume of tolls collected in free circulation, current and annual increases in the budget of around 50 billion tolars. The government representative explained that the adoption of the bill is necessary for the further construction of motorways and other roads, as envisaged in the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and the annual construction plan. The total investment value of motorway sections is EUR 2 000 182 million. Funds to finance these sections will be provided from their own resources of €371 million, credits already paid of €780 million and portions of financial loans or debt securities of €000 million. In view of the debate, the Committee's amendments to Article 1, Article 2 and Article 3 were adopted by the Transport Committee. After the discussion on the articles of the bill in this debate, the Transport Committee voted on the amendment of the Committee, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. Taking into account the amendments adopted in accordance with Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a further draft law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia, Dars, a shareholder company for the rental of credits and the issuance of debt securities for the construction of motorways in a section of the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, is prepared. The Transport Committee supported the above-mentioned draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Member Vila Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u40	Good day to all, and thank you very much for your word. There's probably no one who doesn't know what kind of resources this is, how important projects are. Nor is it likely that anyone who did not with a certain fear, with respect, thought carefully about how we would build, rebuild and finance our state and highways, so I am not surprised that from the first announcement in the debate there were a lot of concerns, there were a lot of warnings, probably also weighty, and that we in the DeSUS Group are not disturbed if people who know about this know about it are caught up and alerted to possible weaknesses and are proposing other solutions. While we are confident that the government and Dars, when preparing the material, have thought carefully enough that, after their representatives have been confronted with concerns, they do not change their basic ambitions, and we trust this opinion, we will support this bill. Although the law has only four articles and, in fact, only three are important, those who talk about where and what we are going to build, those who talk about what resources we will provide for construction, under what dynamics we will build and under what conditions. So, all that is proposed, we in the DeSUS Group are ready to support. To support, above all, the fact that we believe that other parts of Slovenia will also have better opportunities for development, not just economies, not only better transport connections, including demographics and other problems that we face in these areas, could be beneficial. If roads have been built so far mainly so that, if I say in a graphic way, roads have been found to be large and developed environments, we hope that now roads will contribute to making less developed environments faster, faster development, of course, not without defined ones, let's say, victims. We are aware that this will, of course, be financed from the taxpayer's money, because of which we do not specifically count. We are aware that this will be paid by us, the current generation, as well as those who will only become taxpayers, but also today, including those debts, those loans, those guarantees from before, some of which we have not even participated in, we must pay with our tax contributions and also with the tolls we pay. Because we are assessing that this is a very important project that can actually contribute to better development in less developed areas, where it will decentralise a number of functions, because that area that is less developed can move faster, so we will support it and say that we do not know exactly what funding structure will be in the years to come. For after 2007, we do not have those contributions for the construction of motorways coming out of the budget. Perhaps the structure will change. If the structure of the state budget changes, we will probably support this in particular if it goes in this direction even then, that less developed areas develop faster and that the priority of equipping our environment with roads will not be placed in any lower order. Therefore, for these reasons, we will support this proposal, as we will also support the guarantee proposal and the construction plan itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the SDS Group of Members. Member Daniel the Slayer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! The proposed law giving the state of Dars agreement to rent a good billion euro of loans or issue bonds is undoubtedly a turning point in the way of financing the construction of motorways. With the change in funding proposed by the Government, the motorway programme adapts to the changed transport market situation, which, due to growth, allows for a different model of financing for the construction of motorways. In the early 1990s, when the situation regarding the future traffic burdens of motorways and the resulting revenues from the toll were uncertain, the decision on more than half of the budget financing for the construction of motorways was justified, as the programme otherwise did not demonstrate financial stability. Slovenia is now recording high economic growth, it is a member of the European Union, the situation in the Balkans is becoming more stable and economic cooperation is increasing as a result. Traffic flows, which have increased dramatically over the last five years, and since the entry into the European Union, freight traffic in the direction of Hungary-Italy has started to increase very rapidly and vice versa. Inflows from tolls are therefore significantly higher, allowing a different financial structure to finance the construction of motorways. The increasing inflow from tolls ensures a greater creditworthiness of the project. The government was faced with a major challenge - either to continue with the halfway budget funding system for the construction of motorways or to increase the share of loans and bonds that the project can repay itself. It opted for a second approach, thereby releasing substantial budgetary resources and earmarking them for development in other areas, both in the transport sector and elsewhere. Of course, it is necessary to ask whether Dars will be able to repay the loans and bonds issued. The simulations show that the traffic is increasing, and thus the inflow from the toll collected. The turning point will be to introduce tolling in the free traffic, when Dars will toll all motorways and each user will pay as much as he spends. The proposed law touches on another strategic issue, namely, who should pay the cost of building motorways and maintaining them - actual users, depending on their use, or flatly all taxpayers, regardless of how many highways they use. I would also like to point out that Dars has already collected more than 25% of the toll from drivers outside Slovenia. Slovenia has a new way of financing the construction of motorways into a group of developed countries that exclude the financing of the construction of highway infrastructure from the budgetary financing system. Such countries are France, Italy, Spain, Portugal, and, last but not least, Austria and others. The bill before us is good and with it we will ensure stable financing for the construction of motorways in the next three years, as well as the timely completion of all planned motorway sections. We will therefore support the proposal of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you. Mag. Milan M. Cvikl will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u44	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Minister with colleagues, Slovenia and Slovenians! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we do not oppose the construction of motorways, but we oppose the change in the policy of financing the construction of motorways. If everything the predecessors have said to the minister, the SDS representative and others, indeed, as you say Dars will be able to return it, then this law does not have to be discussed today. [[...]] Then Dars doesn't need consent and there's no need for bail. But it's not like that. The government could not close the budget differently than it had reduced the funding for the motorway programme and the result was a record indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia. We are not approaching the European model because the European way of financing the construction of motorways is not discussed in parliaments, but we are returning to the Balkan, Argentine model of high indebtedness and irresponsible loading of Darsa's burden, which it will not be able to return. So far, most of the money for highway construction has been provided from the state budget, about a third has been state budget resources, a third has been debt and a third has been toll. Now you've changed that concept. You didn't change it because you believe Dars could do it himself, but because more money had to be given to the repressive authorities, 36 billion more for the military, the police in 2006 and 26 billion more in 2007. And that's why the Transport Ministry got 10% of the points of less money. And what's gonna happen? You're not going to accelerate the construction of highways, you're just going to encourage them. The project, which was made on the basis of studies commissioned by this Minister as Prime Minister of Darsa's administration, is financially stable and would allow the construction of other projects with its net or the rest of the money, will become negative. Dars will be insolvent and, therefore, due to the Balkan way, the Argentine way of financing highways will have to be paid by taxpayers. Today, each of us, from baby to pensioner, will be in charge of another 120,000 tolars. Those who, of course, have to return what Mr Sok and the others are using will be charged for 740 thousand tolars or four net average wages. I'm asking you, who's going to bring this back? The Economic Institute's analysis clearly states that this can only be returned by increasing the volume of tolls by 40% as of 2008, which means that the world's first electronic toll will be introduced for all in free circulation and, following this same analysis, Dars is expected to be able to recover 50 billion from the state budget from 2008 onwards. No, Mr Bajuk, no, Mr Christmas, no, Mr Janša, have not yet provided this. But they said it needed to be done, so doing the government would burden us not only, not just this government, but our children and their children. Due to this debt, this 240 billion will have to be paid up to an additional 75 billion interest at the time of reaching this loan than it would have if, of course, we had such funding from the budget as proposed by Minister Bozič when he was Prime Minister of Dars. What should be the solution? This should not be discussed with European bankers, but with European technocrats. In 9, 10 months, the new financial perspective will enter into force, with 900 billion tolars available in Slovenia. It is necessary to make an effort and to make money with European technocrats. This is an irresponsible act, which does not belong to the European model, but to the Balkan, Argentine model of high debt without ensuring that Dars can return this money. That is why we will oppose this law at the parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Mr Janko Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, chairman. A well-known minister with co-workers and a well-known colleague and colleague. The proposal for a law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia to Darsu for borrowing and issuing securities is certainly one of the most important laws, but we find it difficult to agree with the law which provides for a debt of €1 billion and €30 million, as this radically changes the source of funding for the highway programme and completely loses the source of funding for the additional highway programme. We can see from the explanation of this law that the total value of the highway programme between 1994 and 2005 amounts to €3 billion and €281 million, and the debt for this programme amounts to €1 billion and €515 million at the end of 2005, which is a relatively high debt burden. If we assume that we need an additional €2 billion and €182 million to complete highway sections and build fast roads and that we will provide only €371 million of our own resources, we will provide €780 million from credits already hired and, as already mentioned, as proposed by today's law, we are closing this financial structure with additional debt. In the history of the implementation of the highway programme, we have always followed this programme closely, but in this history we have never had the opportunity to assume direct responsibility for the management of this motorway programme. However, our position has always been tolling along a mile, providing the highest quality resources, such as petrol toll and toll at the planned level, and thus maintaining a financial structure that allows for the self-financing of the highway programme and, of course, providing adequate means of maintenance and development of motorways and fast roads. Today, we find that the motorway programme will be placed on the brink of profitability, and this threatens the country even to increase its public debt. The government's assumption that public debt will not increase is based on the introduction of an electronic tolling system that we do not have yet. To increase tolls, we don't know if we can enforce them. To increase traffic from 2004 to 2009, to 5%, from 2010 to 2019 by 4% and from 2022 to 2033 by 3%. These are assumptions that we do not know if the traffic will actually run like this. And the government's assumption that there will be no public debt is also based on the fact that the envisaged sections that will be built will not be influenced, practice shows that this has not been the case so far. And the government says that the costs of issuing securities on the capital market will not be increased due to DARS over-indebted, we find it hard to believe because the capital market has its legitimacy and will certainly also respond to the heavy debt of the DARS. So, a lot of strangers who don't give the government a solid basis for the proposed law. In particular, we would like to stress that we are very concerned because the dars will be over-indebted and thus interfere with the additional highway programme, i.e. today's consensus threatens the third development axis, Koroška, the motorway cross, we are also threatening the so-called 3rd development axis, the Škofljica bypass towards the Ljubljana ring against Kočev, and the fourth development axis of Bovec-Tolmin-Želin is threatened with a branch against the Poljan Valley and with a passage against Idrija or Logatac. In short, it is an extremely large number of open issues, which we have already pointed out in the 2006-2007 budget, and we note that today's law is trying to enable the implementation of poor budgets for 2006/2007 by additional borrowing. That is why our position will be [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] limited under this law. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group, Member Cyril Testen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! The New Slovenia-Christian People's Party Group will support the agreement to rent a DARS loan for credits and debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the national highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia, amounting to EUR 1 billion 30 million. We will support the agreement because this is a necessary condition for the rental of the envisaged loans or the issuance of debt securities, which will provide the resources to build up 90% of the motorway national programme. The completion of this work will complete the basic motorway cross which will connect Slovenia from the Hungarian border to Šentilja to Kopra and Nova Gorica and from Karavank to Obrežje. We base our support on the following arguments. The assessment by the government and the coalition, as well as the previous government, of the need to build the highway cross as soon as possible due to the rapid rise in road traffic, has been correct and fully supported. In particular, traffic has increased at border crossings with Hungary, which is unsustainable for the road infrastructure currently available in this part of Slovenia. It is also unsustainable for the natives who live along these roads. However, transport is increasing even more rapidly after Slovenia enters the European Union. However, an additional increase in traffic can be expected after the completion of the entire motorway cross. In particular, an additional increase in transport from the south-east, after Bulgaria and Romania has entered, and most likely Croatia in a few years to the European Union, is expected. Already in the consideration of the 2005 budget rebalancing, as well as in the 2006 and 2007 budgets, we have talked a lot about whether it is right to primarily build only motorways and neglect state roads and also some other infrastructure facilities. In our Group of Members, we are convinced that state roads are important and that they need to be given full attention, particularly in areas that are far from motorways and are generally less developed. We must not forget that in addition to the completion of the highway cross, we have the construction of the third development axis, which is vital for Koroška and some other parts of Slovenia. There is an idea with very concrete proposals and calculations for the construction of the fourth development axis, which would slightly better connect the upper Sočko valley through Cerkne and Škofje Loka with Ljubljana. In addition to the above, it should be noted that intensive investment is also necessary in rail transport and energy. The question is how to finance all projects that are important and necessary. In our parliamentary group, we are convinced that the way of financing the construction of motorways, which is foreseen in 2006-2010 to rent loans totalling EUR 30 million, is sustainable and that Dars will be able to repay annuityes in a consistent manner when collecting tolls without undue difficulty.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u49	Comrade Testen, allow me to interrupt. I would ask the government representative to stop calling in the meeting room, which is also a sign against it. Please proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u50	Finally, a study by the Economic Institute of the Faculty of Law, as well as the opinions of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport, as well as Darsa, has shown that they will be able to repay this. But it's an open question. Slovenia has very strong development ambitions in the future, which in itself means extensive investment in the completion of motorways and also state roads, and it will therefore be necessary to rely on the European development funds and funds from the following financial perspectives as well as on private and public partnerships in the future. We will support the consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you for the position presented and we will also hear the position of the Slovenian People's Party. It will be presented by Ambassador Franz Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the government, representative of Darsa! In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we will propose a law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia, Dars, to rent credits and issue debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the national programme in that amount. As we have also supported all the amendments on the Transport Committee, we would like to stress that it is very important that the motorway routes in the proposal and in those values are implemented and completed as soon as possible. The motorway cross and highway program, as set out in Article 1 of the Act, can be understood, for which sections are concerned, is very important that Slovenian places connect each other, that transit through Slovenia from east to west, from north to south, and ensure as safe and fast a transport as possible, both goods and persons. We must not neglect that Slovenia is a strategic geographically important centre and in some ways, given the stability of some neighbouring Balkan countries, we can see that traffic through the Republic of Slovenia is increasing from day to day mainly in tourist seasons, so it is imperative that Dars implements the programme in accordance with the national programme and that the motorway cross is expected to end as soon as possible. It is clear from the law itself that funds can only be drawn up until 2010, which means in larger instalments and we also expect the Slovenian People's Party's Group to make more investments in those sections than mentioned in Article 1 by 2010. Of course, at the time of repayment, it takes 25 years from the date of the conclusion of the individual loan, the law provides for the possibility of borrowing credits as appropriate. In the Slovenian People's Party, we also expect the government to take into account some of the concerns and also the opposition's comments when preparing the 2008 budget and to try to provide a greater share of the funding for investments in the motorway programme. Once again, the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support this bill along with the amendments, as we also adopted them on the Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you. Next is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, colleague Bogdan Barovic will present the position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives! Today we are talking about a consensus that the government is supposed to give for almost 250 billion tolars, and this is, of course, such an interesting topic, especially for the legislature, that there are 29 of us in the 90s. In fact, Dars is already in charge of €1.5 billion, totalling 400 billion, which is 600 billion tolars. 600 billion tolls of debt or almost a third of the budget. Another time. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not want to hear the impression that we are against development. We are for development, but development within capabilities. Do you know that, of course, there is also a need to develop air, maritime, rail transport. State resources will also be needed there. Third time. We are never in the Slovenian National Party and will not violate all the laws and arrangements we have adopted here in this National Assembly. The fixed amount of indebtedness of the State of the Republic of Slovenia is 3% of the gross social product. You have calculated how much the debt of Dars for one billion euros will amount to the debt of the State of the Republic of Slovenia, not three, as permitted in one year as agreed, but four. This year we all passed a law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which has the 33rd Article, in which it is very precise how much a country can be indebted, at 150 billion tolars of all principals, is written. The Minister of Finance, who claims to say that for just one year, does not make an excuse. That's not true. We are talking today about 250 billion and we are in violation of Article 33 of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, which we have adopted here. That means 250 billion of all capitals. Read carefully Article 33. We wonder why we have adopted a national programme, only the facts of the series, the national programme of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of the motorway programme, which provided for the amount of funds to be given annually for the construction of motorways. This amount of funding in the national programme, if you look at it for 2006, is lower than the agreed amount. Why? Why the State of the Republic of Slovenia in the budget reduces the necessary funds in some way to build motorways and owes it 600 billion. It was said that Dars' debt was not a public debt. Please, what is another public debt the moment the state gives its consent, in fact, the guarantee. The state has made a commitment, it clearly states in the article that it will pay if Dars does not. This is a public debt and don't speak, don't speak, especially I think the Ministry of Finance will say this at the next point when we make a guarantee that this is not a public debt. What's the other thing? If this national council makes a guarantee and assumes an obligation to pay a debt that Dars won't. And not least, ladies and gentlemen, have you ever looked at and read what is behind this money, what are the contracts, who are the signatories to these contracts and programme operators, and how many annexes are there to the contracts? The Trojan clan, they take the job of a Slovenian contractor, they give it to Italians, they pay it hard with annexes and for Italian repairs again by Slovenian performer. I'm talking about billions of tolars. Ladies and gentlemen, no one will point to Bogdan Barovic, not to the Slovenian National Party, that they were or are still in this National Assembly, and that they have entrusted the country for 600, not to the State, but to a share society for 600 billion tolars, no one. That's why we can give our consent, but there's a guarantee to that agreement, because Dars can make a deal if he has somewhere, without the government's guarantee. But this consensus is just the first step towards the next point, I don't think I know when it will be, next week or in the coming days. [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The Slovenian national party will not be in charge of this country for almost a third of the national budget. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you. Thus, we have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss articles and amendments tabled. On the table you have a review or an amendment of the proposed parliamentary club of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. In this way, I am putting to the debate the amendment mentioned to Article 1 as proposed by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Who wants a word in connection with this amendment? My friend Friday, you have the first word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u56	I called first, but if I have one, I don't say no. So the amendment is clear for today's debate and for those who follow this issue. In the Liberal Democracy, we said in the opening presentation of the parliamentary club and in all previous discussions that we believe that the form and level of indebtedness we are talking about today is too high, unnecessary, unrealistic and insufficiently accepted or given up for consideration. For this reason, we propose that this amount of credit should be limited to EUR 500 million, not to a billion and a few more euros, but to 500 million, because we believe that this amount of funding will be allowed in this year, but partly in the following year to finance or care for the development of motorways or the construction of motorways by national resolution and the annual programme. And we believe that, for the second year, circumstances will arise when we can actually intervene more courageously and run for funds from cohesion and structural funds, which in this case shows that the government clearly does not feel this optimism in itself. That is why we have tabled an amendment, and we believe and think it would be wise to think about this amendment, that those who have a greater position in voting than we, who probably will not vote if you do not change your mind, will not vote. Why, though, do we justify this? So, earlier it was said that the government simply quickly, irresponsiblely turned the Slovenian definition so far to financing the construction of motorways. In the Liberal Democracy we are aware of the importance of building the highway cross or the importance of building all motorways in the Slovenian space, but we believe that the circumstances have not changed so that we should also accompany the way of financing the construction of motorways. When we come to the situation that most of the roads will be built by credit, that we will build most of the roads with money, with funds that are so big that they will burden our acquaintances, our children, our grandchildren for 30, 40 or more years, it seems to us that it is necessary to take time, take a break to find out and say that it is possible in this period, as this relationship has not yet been precisely defined, to take credit for only 500 million, and leave the rest to the development of events, or, as we have said, from cohesion funds or possibly, if that is not possible later, from its own resources from the budget. In doing so, we are concerned that the government is actually deciding to finance other programmes instead of funding the programmes already defined by the previous policy. Yes, it finances spending in the public sphere, rather than restricting this credit that it now uses for roads to such understandable heights. So we simply can't understand that people who are still a year and a year or two ago who have been explaining how this credit or debt to Darsa falls under the obligation of the State are in debt, who are not covered, who are in public debt, or who want to say that this is a covert public debt, they are actually making it up to a known public debt, and that is what Mr Baiuk was saying, and what happened, what a transformation, what a transformation, what a transformation they have experienced, that they are suddenly saying other words than they were saying at the time they were in opposition. For this reason, we note that there will be consequences in a relatively fast time, as it is simply not possible for this country to return interest when circumstances arise, but we know that in 2008. The state will not be able to return to the budget such items as have been known so far, that is, 35 to 44 million, and then there will be consequences that those of you who have so unreservedly attached to the debt do not know, and I believe that you cannot, at this point in time, be realistic. That's why I'm calling you again. We are all trying together to consider whether it is necessary for us to be in charge today, now, at this point in our lives. Is it possible to take a decision to be in charge of the amount we propose with the amendment and later to be dependent on developments, analyses that will show what they are and will be the revenues from the tolls, analyses that will show what the value of the road or petrol toll will be, analyses that will show what the budget options will be, then we will find that perhaps there is no need for this credit, or if there are no other calculations that this credit will have to be leased. Therefore, once again, let us try to be reasonable and support the amendment, as proposed by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you. My colleague Friday, first of all, I gave you my word solely because a parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy has been signed under the amendment. I give my word to my fellow Member, Bojan Starman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am pleased that the government has decided to gradually withdraw from direct budgetary financing. This will reduce public spending or finance projects that need to be financed from the state budget. I think that this trend is true and that we must continue it. Second thing. I'd like to say something about these numbers that we've been talking about, the big debts and the big fears of repaying these debts. We know that Dars was in charge of 1,515 billion tolars at the end of 2005. We know that today we are discussing 1.030.15 million euros, and we know that it is written that we need another 756,000 euros to complete the programme. If we add it all together, it's 3 billion 324 thousand euros, or it's converted to about 800 billion tolars. Of course, if we multiply today's tolls over a period of 25 years, we get up to 600 billion euros, that is to say 200 billion too little. Of course, we know that we still need to build these roads and that the annual tide from this title will be significantly higher. That is why I think that we will be able to repay these debts without problems when we properly rent them, of course, over a longer period of time. I think that we could also make sure that some of the money that the state has already invested from direct budget resources would come back to the state treasury, where sufficient resources will be available, of course, at the smart, rational spending of these funds, at the rational work of Dars and at the optimal collection of tolls, of course, by not actually increasing prices [[I've taken this option into account here.]] . That is why I do not see any fear that this programme will not be realized. The state does not owe itself to the investor, it is Dars who cannot rent favourable long-term loans to such an extent without the State guarantee - because Dars is a highway operator, not a highway owner. Here, the state must act as a guarantor and ensure that the guarantees given are not realised. It is also clear from the perspective of the budget that we are sticking to the provisions of ZIPRO, Article 33, as we have adopted it, and in 2006 and 2007 we will issue these guarantees, which will be dealt with in particular, and I do not see any problem here. So once again, I think it's right that we made up our minds. I support this amount. I say in advance that I will not be afraid to support another 800 million euros in three years, because we have these options, and we will have to make sure that the costs are returned or that the loans will be repaid in this way or that the borrower can pay them in full. There's something else I'd like to say. Of course, if we do not make it possible to build a highway program, it is done slowly. We need to build up and collect the money as soon as possible. The slower we build, the worse the effect of collecting tolls. I said somewhere that I think that at least 50% of these ton kilometres of international transport are now taking place on our local, regional roads, especially in Pomure, where these carriers are simply not paying anything. Let us let them build a highway, take money from them, and, of course, let us also pay these obligations and, of course, we also benefit our citizens from better transport opportunities. I think it is right and that, therefore, we must all stand together and that all these fears that we hear from people who had not previously found this possibility and this calculation have also been different conditions, which is understandable, but I think that there will be a need to get some more out of the budget and thereby reduce taxes, our taxes in the economy and our population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Ferri Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u60	Thank you for your input, Mr Vice-President, Minister-designate with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. I agree that this is an extremely large contribution to the debt, but I wonder whether we actually have a real alternative or another option without jeopardising the implementation of the national programme or ensuring the implementation of the Dars programme that we will consider on Thursday. If the answer is that it is possible to provide from other sources, as mentioned in the debate so far or as some proposals have been made, additional funds or funds so large that the proposed amount of billions and some reductions by half, as proposed by the LDS member's amendment, then without further concern for public finances, this amendment would be supported. However, if it has not done so, then I cannot support this amendment, despite all the concerns and concerns about our public finances. So if there is a choice on the table, or just two choices, or at this point go into such an assignment, give consent and then also guarantee and ensure the implementation of the programme, then I support such a solution. But if there's anything else, then I'm willing to support the amendment. It would be unacceptable, however, for us to withdraw from the programme and to go into further and time delays, delays that have happened to us in the past. This does not, of course, reduce the eligibility of criticism, which has been expressed on the government's behaviour with regard to the reduction of appropriations for motorways from the budget for this year and for the following year, and also some of the other comments that have been made, whether everything has been made to provide more favourable resources, including grants from the European Union, but this discussion is not very useful at this time when we are ahead of the decision: either building and borrowing or simply not building. And this second option, so that we don't have to build fast, is out of the question for me. Especially if I take into account not only the 2004 government's conclusions on speeding up the construction of the Pomeranian arm of the highway, which must be completed by 2008, and I am glad that this government also respects this obligation, that it has accepted it, and that it has also put it into the plan, but also to colleagues and colleagues, the state and trend - especially to this pomurski arm, which has thus come last in line, with a great delay in the construction of the highway - they are getting worse from day to day, from month to month. [[...]] Transport - here I have the data - especially the cargo, insurmountable progress. Let me mention that last year's growth was close to 50% compared to last year's by almost half. Compared to 2003, the increase is 159%. And after months of looking at data, the number of trucks in particular increases record. This poses an even greater threat to and causes unsustainable housing and the lives of people, in particular in cramped settlements, causing material damage to buildings, houses, economic buildings, infrastructure, accelerated destruction - because I drive this road every week and see what the situation is - destroys the highway and other state roads - this is a condition for coherent regional development. And it is not too much from a traffic point of view to draw attention to the fact that we neglected years ago. In fact, it was hoped that Hungarians would be late in building their motorways, today we see that they had overtaken us and that they were at the Slovenian border with a bi-passenger, and that on the Croatian border, which is a competitive direction, are also connected to their port, that they are already practically at the border. True, it must be acknowledged that such a huge debt poses a potential risk to the state budget or the state, even though Dars is the borrower of the loan, but we must turn the matter around differently: to build quickly, to commit and to do so at this point - all of this is primarily the government's task and I am also in favour of leading on this occasion and in the future debate, in particular for two matters. Firstly, in the following budgets, more resources are actually provided for the construction of motorways from the petrol tolar, which we have not consistently done and respected the law and the national programme, and the other, which I think is even more real and important at this time, is to ensure efficient collection of tolls and thus provide more resources for Darsa to repay credits. In addition to providing greater resources, effective toll collection will also ensure greater fairness in toll collection, as today, colleagues and colleagues, we must recognise that citizens and citizens, including us, are in an unequal position. That those who drive on the longest routes, even from areas where we do not yet have a highway built, pay the most and even the most for every mile we carry on a built highway, while many in the centres, especially in Ljubljana and the surrounding area do not pay for the use of motorways to that extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Member Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u62	Dear colleagues and all the others present! I am relatively in years, although I may not look at first sight, but since I remember myself in this Slovenia we have been building motorways. I think it is high time that the government took this area seriously and responsibly. And that we are ahead of putting this thing in some operational way, which will, in a relatively short period, allow for a more appropriate link between our country and its regions. The number we have on the table, one billion seems really impressive, but no less impressive is the number 500 million we read in the LDS amendment. On the part of this party, it was said, "We do not oppose the construction of motorways, but we oppose the change of policy". And if there were no such amendment, we could also believe that position, and we could argue with it, because it is, but this statement is rejected. For the change in the amount speaks of the fact that the policy that is here is not opposed. Only to a minor extent should it be implemented and the period should be extended, as Article 1 consists of two paragraphs and is only the first paragraph, only the amount. What will we then throw out from the second paragraph, which sections to accomplish what these resources will do? Are we going to throw out the pomurski leg, for which the previous government decided in 2004 that it should be accelerated? Or we drop another leg on the fifth, the tenth, or the tenth, or the corridor. I think that this amendment should be supplemented by colleagues and could then be compatible, but it is not. This populism is also unproductive. If we accept the amendment, will we be in less debt to the baby than we are? For half the amount mentioned and nothing else! But it's not that we're going to owe anyone, I think we're all aware of it, but it's that the uptake of such populism is really unproductive, and it would be time for us to stop these cheap things and talk seriously about things that are serious. Of course, such an assignment can be problematic. It is problematic when there is a loss of sense of economy and rationality in the implementation of the programme. And man would expect us to use more words today, and I am firmly convinced that those who will carry out these things on the basis of this programme know that here is the core or solution that needs to be given more attention, so it is necessary to ensure greater cost-effectiveness in the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia in all segments. However, in order to need a link from several perspectives, it is probably not disputed that such an amendment cannot be supported. The sooner the motorways are built, the sooner we take care of the other transport policy segments in our country, the sooner we will allow this country to develop more evenly regionally, which I believe is the goal of all those in this national assembly, and I think that this is also crucial for the further rapid development of our country. The number would be problematic if we invested in state roads where there is no return, where it is not possible to cover because we do not collect tolls. But the decision taken to give more money to state roads under the budget this year and in the coming years is good. There are funds provided through the budget, which I think is wise, allowing for a normal renewal of the road programme. In another segment where the needs are much greater, it is necessary to look for other sources and, unfortunately, so far no other alternative better source has been offered. You would expect us to hear that instead certain sections are put into concession, but you could quickly find that if they were interesting for the concession, they are probably also interesting for Dars and they can also be built on their own and in an appropriate and rational way, if they are not interesting for the concession, and they cannot be built. So, at a given time, the only solution that is on the table is likely to be possible and, when properly approached in a relatively short time, enable the realisation of the motorway programme and with the envisaged change in the way to collect tolls, which will not allow the increase of tolls, as has been repeatedly said, will allow an increase in the volume of toll funds, as we all know that the current system covers slightly more than 60% of what is happening on these roads. I do not think that, with such a policy and with such an approach, there is any fear of ensuring that these funds are properly recovered through tolls, nor is it a fear that in such a case the State should actually act as a real payer of such loans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Christian Janz.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, Mr Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. The amendment proposed by colleagues in the LDS is certainly in some ways enjoyed by someone, and in the same breath they talk about the accelerated construction of the highway cross. But there's something not right here, I think. However, in recent weeks there has been a lot of talk about this story, we have discussed much about this guarantee, about this height, there has been a lot of writing and telling about what it is and so on. I have hoped that at least at this point, the coalition and the opposition will be united, that this is a Slovenian interest, that we want to complete the highway programme as soon as possible, because the arguments are clear, we know that this cross has been dragging for a long time and that the needs are both in faster development, in traffic, in congestion and so on. I believe that we Members are more or less united here, that this is a Slovenian interest. That is what we are - the former government, the present government, the former Members, the present Members of Parliament, and if we are to build this, we need money. It's simple, we need money. You are well aware that this money cannot be secured in the budget, it is definitely not possible. And, Sir, this is a generation project, a generation project, not only of these generations, but also of future generations. And once we've built this, I think it's only right that we transfer some of this burden to our children. After all, they will use it. And last but not least, I believe that the toll we're talking about, the electronic toll we're talking about, will be more fairly done and fairer, and to all the users we're using it, not like it is today. Unfortunately, today, some are privileged to pay no toll, but one is always paid, and that is not fair. I think it is Dars and the Ministry's task to arrange as soon as possible in such a way that it will be equal to the payment of the toll for all, and thus somehow ensure regular payment. Today's financial market offers an extremely favourable loan rental. A weak master, whoever it is, not to spend it on development projects like the highway cross. It's logical, it's smart, it's economical. I do not see any particular problem here, it does not affect any financial public debt, so we have been assured by the most responsible in this government, and I think that this is a gradual recovery to 25 years and a gradual debt by 2010 a smart, meaningful, logical move; however, as soon as possible with accelerated construction, I repeat, we are coming to completion. Because, well-respected colleagues and colleagues. We and the government have already accepted this, the third development axis is ahead of us: Koroška, Dolenjska, Bela krajina, we are talking about this difference. And the next project, which I hope is already seriously preparing plans, projects and so on, that when we end this cross, of course, which is a priority, we can gradually start working in Koroška, Celje, Posavje, Dolenjsko and White Krajina. And that is what I think is also the task of this Parliament and this government to prepare all the relevant papers here, so that as soon as we finish this story, we can start that story. And with regard to this project, I do not think I see any specific reasons for this halving of this amount, without arguments, where we also reduce construction. That's it. I mean, wrongly, I'm going to say, let's cut it by 500, by half this amount, but it's all the same as the law itself. This is not a correction of the amendment. That is why I cannot support it, but I will certainly support this guarantee, which the state must offer to Darsa, to complete this important Slovenian story, which is called the highway programme, as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Cwickl. It's your turn now. Will you both take advantage? My friend Squeakle. What are you talking about? As a replica or as an application?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u66	I will have a debate first, but I will also answer Mr Janc and Mr Chernač and others. First of all, gentlemen, because you say you are well-educated and because you are in favour of the issue of highway construction being something of national interest, I would like to remind you that in February 2004 this National Assembly adopted a resolution on the construction of motorways in Slovenia. This resolution confirmed the funding structure. 1/3 credits, 1/3 state budget and 1/3 tolls. This resolution was based on studies that Mr Bozič, as Prime Minister of Darsa's administration, explained very vehemently to the Minister of SLS and the Minister of Finance why it was necessary to have such a way of structuring and such a way of financing the construction of motorways. This resolution was essentially based on the continued enforcement of the law on the provision of funds from the budget or, if you want, the petrol toll that has changed after the VAT conversion into about 30 to 40 billion years of financing for the construction of motorways from the state budget. This is Slovenia, if you want, a European model of highway construction. What Mr Christmas wrote at dinner on Monday and said it was an important turning point - I agree with him. However, Mr Christmas, these milestones are being made by amending the resolutions, not because you first set aside money in the state budget to come somewhere else for a billion euro in debt. Why are we reducing the level of funds in this amendment? Because only such an amount of funds retains the structure of the resolution. Since such an amount of funds ensures, as beautifully written, that a difference of collateral is needed in the national budget and before us are changes in the 2007 budget, we are facing the 2008 state budget, saying that this is one source or two sources, through the cohesion funds from the European Union Structural Funds in the 2007 and 2014 financial perspective. Gentlemen, for 2007, the government foresees 3 billion tolars of money from the European Union. Three billion dollars. However, they are available from 1 January 2007 onwards 900 billion. And if you don't, the government, the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Finance, the European technocrats, convince us that it means building motorways and therefore important from sharing in the state development programme for the construction of motorways, then of course you will be in debt. Who's gonna pay? He'll end up paying the state budget. Because no one, not Mr Christmas and not Mr Finance Minister, has provided a key assurance that electronic tolling will indeed take place, which is a one-time condition, and that from 2008 onwards it will indeed be guaranteed as much as is envisaged in the studies of the Economic Institute, which is about EUR 200 million. And, gentlemen, the resolution adopted in February 2004 had a very thorough model. And this model says that we will build motorways by 2008, that by 2013, a complementary programme will eventually be developed and that the main source of this complementary programme will be - we are talking about the third development axis, we are talking about the fourth development axis - the surplus of the highway project. Those who are economists, you probably know that when someone goes into debt, they only get credit if at the end of the project they show that they have a net positive value. And the resolution with funding sources provides 75 billion surpluses or EUR 285 million. Since not Mr Christmas and not Mr Bajuk have failed to ensure that in 2008 they will continue to be provided with 50 billion dollars from the state budget - let me remind you that Mr Damjan says that, in the meantime by 2012, the entire budget will be reduced by more than 240, 250 billion - the effect of this, as shown by the study of the Economic Institute commissioned by Mr Bozič, which Mr Bozič, as Minister, sent to the National Assembly in September 2005, will show that Dars will have a negative current value of EUR 852 million or more than 200 billion. And, gentlemen, because of that, of course, it's not true that it's a turning point. If it were a turning point, Mr Minister, then we wouldn't be dealing with it today, because Dars, like Portuguese Brisa or anyone else, would finance matters without the State's guarantees without the consent of the National Assembly - because it would be so-called public-private partnership projects. But it's not like that. You just couldn't provide as much in the budget as the resolution said, you didn't go to fix the resolution, but after an emergency procedure of plus 75 billion you're working a 200 billion-dollar hole. The Minister of Finance and Mr Christmas said that they cannot guarantee this because, you know, the budget consists of a government. I ask you, Coalition Members, will you start the budget for 2008 and 2009 - on the basis of all relevant procedures relatively soon - to provide Darsa with 200 million euros? Will you assure him? You won't. Of course, Mr Janša cannot confirm this here, so this is an irresponsible act - because we owe future generations. Unfortunately, this is not a turning point, but it is a return to the Balkan model, to the Argentine model, where, of course, these minus 200 billion will have to be returned and will, of course, be returned by Slovenian taxpayers, and in the meantime, because of what you are doing, Slovenia will have at least two problems. We will pay more than 75 billion interest and we will not be able to, because there will be no place to take it, to finance the complementary programme of highway construction, the third development axis, the fourth development axis, but only European bankers will fall for us. This is, to put it mildly, a short-sighted policy, an irresponsible policy and, of course, we are opposed to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you. I invite Ambassador Marjetko Uhan to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. I will not support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy alone. I also know that both 500 million and 1 billion are extremely large money, and I hope that Dars, as well as the minister who proposed this law, is aware of this. In comparison, I'd like to say that some ministries would survive with this money. However, I am in favour of this law because it is the only hope right now that we will get, say, the highway also on the undernourished Dolenjska, where certain sections have not yet begun to build, where the site plan is being discussed and if today supported by the amendment of Mr Cwickl, then it would probably be the legs where it has not started to build at all. And today, let me tell you about the needy, and I'm worried about the debt of Dars, the state, so you just write this road down. Where were you when the state was in charge of the other legs, for the rest of the highway you're on? So, the only hope today is to support this law and this guarantee, and I think you're quite rude to your models when you're talking about Balkan, Argentine models. I think that Slovenian policy is one hope to get the highway built as soon as possible, while the Squeak model certainly is not a hope with the highway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you. Replica, Comrade Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u70	For a little while. Look, Mrs. Uhan, it's not about the Wickel model, it's about the model of the Faculty of Economics, it's about the Christmas model, it's just in the middle of forgetting that, as CEO of the Darsa administration, he was defending one option when Mr. Janša squeezed it, and Mr. Bajuk couldn't get that kind of money out of the budget, but he started defending another alternative, which would make you needy, and this highway cost you a lot more later.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Matthew Lahovnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you very much. First, to clear up the dilemma in this amendment, this is a major abuse. In LDS, we do not say that the means to build motorways should be reduced, but we say that they are alternative sources. The following year, the new financial perspective, which can draw 900 billion dollars, is 28% of that amount, which is supposed to be granted as a guarantee to Dars. The second option and the second fact, and please remember, once again, that we are not going to repeat it all the time, is that Minister Bajuk has reduced the construction of the highway from 38 billion to only 8 billion in 2006. And the study by the economic institute of the Faculty of Law is very clear: if these highway construction funds do not return to the previous level of 38 billion tolls, funding will significantly increase there over 2060. But, of course, Mr. Bayuk doesn't worry. I totally understand him, he gets a pension from Argentina or the United States from some international institutions, he has no problem with who pays it back and how. But I'm sorry, there are a lot of young generations in this country who would much rather see that funds are provided from European funds, from cohesion funds and from the budget, rather than from a guarantee that will soon be covered by future generations. But this is about some basic economy, and I ask you not to abuse this fact anymore, saying that we are blocking the construction of highways with this amendment. That's not what this is about! It's about speeding things up, but it makes it cheaper. And what Minister Bajuk says again when he says, look, because interest rates are currently at the lowest levels, the lowest historical levels, that's worth it now. Yeah, sure, but let me know what they'll be like in 2010, 2015. And in the future, over 2060, when this construction will take place or when this payment will take place. Of course, he doesn't know that, and I believe he doesn't care, but what's going on is ostrich stuffing his head in the sand. And look at the magnetograms from the committees of this National Assembly and you will see, we have warned, you do not reduce the share of the budget from 38 billion to 8 billion tolars! Minister Christmas also confirmed that this could be dangerous. Even in that study of the Faculty of Economics, which you have commissioned yourself, it is very clear not to do so, because the dynamics will have to return to the previous level. But for the years 2008, 2009 - this I believe you are not worried about what will happen today, but only in the years to come when these "poofs" will be repaid. And finally, to point out one more fact when we talk about the third development axis, no one is "disputing" the third development axis. On the contrary, I have asked the ministers myself why the construction of this third development axis is not fastened and accelerated even more actively. Once again, when we talk about the highway network, we speak only from what sources. And once again, gentlemen, next year, a new financial perspective begins, you have 900 billion dollars of resources there, and 28% of this money is spent on these infrastructure projects, and construction will be very cheap and very easy. But stop "painting" the whole country by giving some guarantees and borrowing yourself into a distant future. I find this irresponsible and even more manipulative when someone says that the LDS wants to reject the construction of highways with this amendment. Come on, look at the content and read at least these studies of the Economic Institute of Law you ordered! And one thing, obviously, we're going to have to ask the Minister of Finance or someone how much this study has cost you, because it's obvious that it doesn't do you any good, and you haven't read it, and I really want to know why we're throwing money into the abyss if you don't read these studies yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you. The next on the list of applicants is Member Samo Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will not oppose the law, even though it has significant financial implications. The modernisation of road infrastructure is, in my opinion, essential - not only road infrastructure, all transport infrastructure - but it is, in my opinion, essential for the further economic development of our country. In 2001, when the financing of the motorway programme was stalled, this was reflected negatively and there was a stagnation not only in construction but in the entire Slovenian economy. However, we do not only have motorways here, we still have railway infrastructure and also state roads. We also have before us government documents on Slovenia's investment priorities in 2007 and 2013. We also have in these priorities where they speak of state roads, including the so-called third axis, as well as part of the fourth development axis, which has also recently been established in our Slovenian space, we have heard today, a further 3a development axis. However, I would like to say, Mr Minister, that, with regard to the priority and set of projects that will be able to run for co-financing of European funds, in our sub-region, in Idrian, we do not agree, because the fourth development axis in Slovenia's investment priorities for the period 2007-2013 has been made invalid; I repeat, you have made this development axis invalid, because you have completely ignored the left leg of this axis. So, the most pro-pulsive export environment in Slovenia, in Idrijski, you have completely bypassed [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And made it for the appendix. [[..]] So I ask that before you finally accept these priorities to correct this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u76	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to tell a very short story, but it has to do with the amendment, so there won't be any misunderstandings. A man, a wife, and a child came to the bank. They said that we live in a congregation where there is a big housing problem, we want to solve it by building a house, by moving with our parents, and by making room for others; we want to do so immediately because the credits are very favorable and we need 100 million. Of course, the bank worker finds that neither with the guarantee nor otherwise are they able to obtain a 100 million loan and cancel them. And then what? - people say that a bank employee is directed against solving housing problems, that a bank employee is directed against the development of young families, and that he does not give money. That's not true! Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is precisely the result of the poor attitude of the competent financial ministry towards the laws adopted. Article 33 of the Law on the implementation of the budget provides in detail that the debt of the State, the Republic of Slovenia, may amount to 150 billion tolars per head in one year. Is it so difficult to write that the country, the Republic of Slovenia, on all majors in 2006, I will say, is in debt of 40 billion, and we know that we still have a difference for all the remaining debts of 110 billion. Where do we have this information, the basic information we should have?Oh, my God! We don't have it! In this National Assembly we said, the country, the Republic of Slovenia, has a debt of 3% of the gross social product. If you think of 120 billion, it's 120 billion - and that's the law and you have to respect it! And we can't go to our marriage, which says it's 120 billion, to take a loan for 250 billion! And for "God of Lone" then you're reading that we're, I don't know, against the development of roads! God forbid we should be against the development of roads! But what happened in this national council, no matter what authority? What we did before the bad year: lower the toll for trucks and increase the axle load! Is that the way? Is this how we're going to get the money back - to lower the tolls? And all the trucks from Europe, smart ones, go from trains to Slovenian roads - because it's cheap for us, and because they can have, I don't know, 15-ton loads and destroy Slovenian roads? Is this how we're gonna raise money? Where do we have written five or six measures to draw and recover funds for new roads? Where? We're talking about electronic tolling, we're talking about this and that. There's no such thing! There are no guarantees. And not least, if the state should, because it says in the article, if Dars isn't capable, the state will have to make amends - if that were to happen, out of whose money? From the taxpayer's office, where the budget is filled. And what follows is the double taxation of citizens and citizens. God forbid that's gonna happen! First, the budget will pay back, this is the taxpayer's money, and secondly, all of us driving will pay a higher toll. That's right, because if we're gonna have to have roads, we already know that. And in the Slovenian National Party, we would like you to say a hundred times that this moment is a possible commitment to the framework to which it is governed by legislation, but, unlike the necessary money, now honestly tell all of us and all of the Slovenes and Slovenes that we are going to pay, I don't know, 10, 15, 20% more expensive tolls. That's right, it's fair. It is clear that we will pay the toll, but not that we will now pay a total of 600 billion tolls through some of the leased puffs later and these loans and another 40 or 50 percent of the toll. This transparency is all I want: how much this country should owe this year and next years. And to that limit, to that limit, the Slovenian National Party will also say yes. And last but not least, I'm curious, I've been fighting for six years, and I'm finishing up for the stem hospital, and now it's the conclusion that a new one will be built. It'll cost a few billion dollars. The Ministry of Health's proposal for guarantee is likely to come. And what's gonna happen? I already know, Article 33 of the ZIPR Act says that the state can get up to that much and because this debt is already at the limit of 150 billion, this guarantee will not be for one hospital. It happens to be in the Rippers, but it could be somewhere else. It's not just a hospital, it's something else. We've got railways, we've got a second track, we've got air traffic, we've got maritime traffic. There are also problems that the Minister is facing directly, but this moment he cannot or must not talk about them because he has to solve the highway problem. But when the money runs out there, when Europe has those hundreds of millions that it considers to be railways, you say you don't want them, it will put them away, and again the minister will have other problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Anton Anderlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u78	Today, questions are being asked as to whether someone is on the highway or on the other side. Only if he hopes to ask himself a question is he against it. But there's something wrong with this whole process. We accept one of the twins today and the other of the twins of the laws that speak of the same thing. But it is strange that the government does not do so as such, in a coordinated manner, and that both ministers sit by both laws because they are in some fateful relationship, as they might call it. But it's so that maybe things go through this way more seductively, hide more, become opaque, etc., and that's how this life runs. I am not saying that this way of financing the construction of motorways, which has been legalised so far if you want, in the country of Slovenia, the best. However, I argue that it is not the only alternative to this, simply a transition from what has now been done to debt. There is no great wisdom that we have very different forms around the world, how these things work. Or it is really possible, just like that, to abolish with your left hand the law on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of motorways, which we pay at a litre of petrol, oil every day or when we buy fuel for combustion in winter. But that's none of the business of the government. This law is the basis and, of course, is the basis of the resolution that has already been discussed, and it does not say why it departs from this way from the end of the law. And what we will now do with the guarantee as a commitment, even if theoretically the tolls of 2065 will cover all that we will now rent as a loan or lease credits in the future in order to reprogram credits, because the fact is that some of the credits and those we confirmed here last year are leased to reprogram some credits from the past. And now, of course, there will be more. And I think that what we've already paid the users of the highway through a dedicated toll should not be hanging us now through taxes on the other side. It's illegal, even I'm pretty sure. And you think that, in the past ten years, no one has remembered "for God" that it is easier to go to the EIB, EBRD, commercial banks, anywhere but to torture and budget, so that public spending will be within the framework to achieve macroeconomic goals in order to achieve development in order to create conditions for the convergence of the euro and so on. Do you think that this, these ideas and these temptations have not been experienced in the past 10 years? But it has been said that it is not possible to finance everything through credits, because this burdens public finances beyond certain frameworks that we have accepted as a commitment to bring inflation to the right level and so on. It's no big deal to say it has nothing to do with the state. Dars will be in charge. But that's what happens with the guarantee. I would like to hear the answer: firstly, to the question why it has deviated from this law, which provides the means and why these funds are not provided. Another time. What is the projected calculation of all interest until the end of this whole project, until repayment. And third, where is he, let's say this break that he calls it, so far we're paying these interest in a hole and there's going to be a profitable project of these highways from there. At what point do you expect this breakthrough to really happen? For if highways in themselves are not profitable in some future, that some profit will be returned, so that highways can be restored, that something else can be built from this title, and that the thesis, which I believe will be quite likely, will be all that will be cashed from tolls, so to speak, for the repayment of credits, and more so that we will also have to in the future - today was said here, someone said he would be happy to support the lease of 300 million euros for another year, if I understood correctly. But I am afraid of this, of course, because it is a moral obligation for all of us to not owe those after 2060, 2070 and so on to reckless solutions. In the light of the three questions raised, however, I would like the representatives of the government to answer something.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Aloys Sok to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr Minister with fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The road issue is, of course, not a topic that would be in the National Assembly for the first time. We have met with her over the past few years, so we have discussed guarantees about twice a year, and then again on the construction plan for the current year, and these debates are more or less equal or similar. The problem is that what we are talking about today on the construction of motorways should be done there in 1970; then highways were built in a developed Europe. Today, however, we face this problem of having huge traffic and not having highways, on the one hand, and on the other hand we face problems in how to finance it. It is true, colleague Cvikl, that we have adopted a national programme for the construction of motorways, but this programme goes somehow there by 2013. Then you promised before the elections, in 2004, in Pomour that this would end in 2008, not in 2013, right, Mr. Rob? And that was also the pre-election password. And that's right. And of course this government and this government coalition are following this promise. And now we are on the point that by 2008 the Dumplings need to build this. True, we built around Ljubljana, you can drive, you don't pay the tolls, even by the sea it is built, so you can quickly be in Portorož and at sea. The problem is, of course, for those who come from northeastern Slovenia, from Prlekia, Pomurje, the problem is for Koroše and for many others. It would be a lot easier if we ever made a decision in the past and built one of the highway links with a concession. That didn't happen. In all parts something has been built and today, I think that simply with concession there is no place to build any more, except for the possibly affluent highway; this would probably still be possible. And here I would also like an answer from the minister, whether in this direction something is thought, but perhaps only a part of it could be compensated in some other way, because it is clear to everyone, the guarantee basically means that if the one who gets the guarantee can not return it, then the state is the one who pays it. Well, that's perfectly logical, and we all understand that. Now, how indebted a country is after the Dars Act has changed and, of course, also according to these criteria recognised by the European Union, Darsa's debt is not considered a sovereign debt, Comrade Barovic. Slovenia has fulfilled the criteria for taking over the euro, which means that both after the debt and after inflation do not exceed those conditions, and we are the only country at this point that meets all these conditions and can already, if it is now decided, take over as the euro's common currency, this is expected to happen with 1.1.2006. Of course, Dars' debt did not arise overnight, Dars' debt was incurred, look, I could read to you, you're talking about some Balkan, Argentine model - now I don't know, the Balkan model certainly wasn't the way to build highways, they were in debt, but for something else. I'm not going to let go of what everything was in charge of and what it was all about. As far as the Argentine model is concerned, this is now some novelty that has been brought into this debate, the only thing I can relate to this is probably the fact that the family of the finance minister, like thousands of other families, has sought their place in Argentina. It was the only country that gave these poor people the opportunity to come or end up in the corner of Kočev, as is many. I don't know why you're always repeating this Argentine model. You should think of your colleague Squeakling over it. I don't know why you're saying this. I just don't get it. In addition, we have been able to read a long time ago that Argentina has repaid a large part of its debt, it is said, a successful economy is developing again there, but of course this country is still heavily indebted, and we can also read it. I simply suggest that you no longer use it because it has very difficult emotional emotions for a lot of people. For us who are born in this country, no, but for many, yes, you always speak Balkan, Argentinian. Let's say what this model was like before the elections in 2000. 1.5.1999 accepted the State Assembly guarantee of $330 million, €15.5.1975 million, then €5.11.1999 for €85 million and then €160 million for 13.11.1999. If you add that up, get a little less than one billion euros in 1999. Look, I've got it right here. You can read it. However, from all this title to this point it has become all of a total debt of about one and half billion euros, which represents about half of the programme Dars has implemented so far. With this guarantee, which we are now legislating and which Dars is supposed to draw by 2010, this part would rise by 90% of the programme implemented to 54%. For 90% and 517 kilometers, the highway is expected to rise to 54%, and the finance minister, who also received one of the awards that you do not give him any weight, says this is sustainable and that this is possible with [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] If I may, Comrade Anderlich? [[...]] That this is possible in a different way of tolling to ensure from toll collection and then to finance this in such a way. However, what is more important and what will need to be given much more attention is certainly control over the use of these funds. In the past it has happened that there is a road programme, I regret that there is no former transport minister here, I do not know how there is a shortage today, I could say a lot of things about this programme have been financed, from various local roads, not just roads, and other things that had nothing to do with roads at all. And this is a big task on Dars to prevent such and similar things and to reduce the price of a built-up mile of highway because it is so expensive for us.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u81	Members and Members, please listen to the speaker, he has a word and the only one is Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u82	I'll wait for my colleague Anderlich to finish, I didn't bother him, he'll force his opinions here, but I have a right to think like that. As regards the conditions under which these funds will be approved by 2010, it is also clear here that everything is done to obtain the European Cohesion Fund's funds. It says here that up to 300 million of these funds are planned in this context and that the consumption will then decrease by so much. And today, on the part of my colleague Lakhovnik, ask: "Tell us, what will be the interest in 2010?" Yeah, who knows, let him say that as an economic expert, let him tell us what the interest will be in 2010. We can know what the interest is at this point. What they'll be like in five years, I don't know, he's a doctor of economics, he knows everything he says. However, the conditions under which these chalks are leased are laid down in Article 2 of this short law. Here are the conditions, it is said, that these conditions should not be derogated from, but if they should, then the government, as a candidate, will have to come to Parliament with the amendment of this law and we will be able to say so, but not under such conditions. Everything else, Comrade Cvikl, is a guess, I would say, a kind of spreading of fears, but in fact, we desperately need roads, that is to say that the government has also cut down under the highway programme budget, that is to say, it is true that the government has invested a great deal more resources for other roads, which have been neglected all the time, that the government has allocated more resources to local communities, which are still in need of funding for its municipal infrastructure. It is also true that the government has reduced the tax on wages paid and that this will continue to decline, it is said that if something goes down, then on the other hand this difference has to be ensured in some way. This is simply a logic that we can understand even those who are not economists by profession. There is also a railway upgrade project ahead of the government and, of course, we will have to make a conscious decision here whether to make a commitment and get these things into use as soon as possible or, in fact, for years and years, you are waiting and you are stepping in. So, I'm going to support this law myself, even though I'm aware it's a big decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Sok. We have two replicas. First, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u84	Very briefly, Mr. Sok. Look, the difference between us and you is that the government has come to the National Assembly 10 times, and at that time Dars is responsible for this billion EUR 900. He built what he built out of it. You now owe Dars an additional billion euros for the next term. It's a Balkan Argentine model because it's a characteristic of being in debt to bankers and not coming back. And Mr Sok, everyone who goes to London, says, "I would have a billion euros and will therefore pay 75 billion interest, gets very much credit."
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you. And Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u86	Look, Mr Sok, when you talk about this, it was meant for, I don't know what, it was and so on, say your name, tell me when and why. Not to accuse in your own manner, everything was wrong before, but now we're going to save it. That would be correct. And secondly, when you talk, yes, if anything goes wrong, we'll come up with changes. If they really had a purpose, then they would have come with a change to the law on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of motorways. The money is collected, it goes into the budget, it's allocated in the integrated budget for wherever it is, we pay it with petrol and it's not right to be devoted to other things. We build from this road or you change the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Robb, are you in favour of a debate? For the replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u88	Dear Mr. President. Also, very briefly. So, all that Mr. Sok said might hold if I hadn't overlooked the point. We financed the highway program so that it could fund itself. The new government, or this government, has now been going on for quite some time now, has set up this project in such a way that it does not guarantee self-financing. Since 2000, we have tried to provide funding for the highway programme by providing half of the budget and half of the debt. And that allowed for self-financing of the project. Now 38 billion have been reduced to 8 billion, all financed only by lending, which means that in the end this debt will be paid by the budget or by taxpayers via higher tolls. This is unacceptable, this is a covert debt and this is extremely bad and we are overcoming the debt to build motorways, to cover up other expenses, to these and future generations, and we want to point this out today. This is bad and completely contrary to what this coalition has promised to do in Slovenia so far. And we are reminding this today and it is time to make appropriate corrections in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Steba has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Mr President Darsa, colleagues and colleagues! I'm not going to back this up. Actually, I think it's incomplete, maybe even formal. For they, the LDS, simply changed only the number in the first indent from 1.030.15 to 500, but did not define and round up this amendment by removing those motorway sections that would be financed by such a reduced amount of guarantees or debt or by issuing shares. Actually, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the state or state budget offer a solution in an easy way by halving the share. [[...]] And then they use it for propaganda, demagogy and intimidation. At the very least, it would be right for them to take responsibility and also to state the amount for this reduction, to exclude those sections that could be realised with such a reduced amount of money. They are talking about a public private partnership that the previous government has not conceived. Concessions as such have not been introduced in the classical sense, in my view, because of domestic, economic and also executive interests. Instead, Dars has become a type of state concessionaire who can, with such powers, issue debt and securities and rent loans. But he is given either by the founder or by the owner. Studies are also of different kinds. It is probably those who question or question them or make them all powerful, and he himself has made them. The results of the studies are, inter alia, very often important depending on the contracting authority’s entry conditions. And these have changed significantly with the new approach of this government. Also, the fear of additional taxation and so on, the tolling system, which has been so misused, allows only 60 percent of what is supposed to be tolled. I am confident that there can be significantly more tolling or collecting money if I mispronounce, in an appropriate way to tolling or taxiing all the burdens. There's more to it than that. In fact, as has already been said, there is an unacceptable backlog in the construction of highways and fast roads. The initial national motorway programme should have been completed two years ago and was then extended until 2013. Developed European countries completed the first system of motorways 30 to 40 years ago and some built them before the war. The state of state roads is poor and the worst is their lower structure and technical transport characteristics. Railways are also waiting for the first system upgrade of infrastructure, with developed countries building super-fast third-generation railways. In 10 to 12 years on 40 years of foundation, government policy was gradual, slow construction. I support the firm move of this government, all ministers, gentlemen, Mr Anderlič, this is the accelerated or priority construction of motorways, the release of the budget for state roads and for new transport development axes. Construction of motorways according to plan or faster than planned must be urgently achieved, with additional planned new development directions and thorough modernisation of state roads. For Slovenia and this coalition, I also believe that current and also current for Europe is essential growth and employment, which is possible only through a thorough budget restructuring, the cost of functioning of the country and so on. However, it is a prerequisite, and we also expect from the Ministry and Dars, that tolls on motorways and tolls for the costs incurred and environmental burdens, for state roads, for freight vehicles with transport policy, are diverted to freight and transit transport, to motorways or railways to make this happen. The real introduction, unlike so far the tolls on the use of motorways in free traffic, at the same time as the introduction of taxis for state roads. So far, I still miss an appropriate vision with a strategic decision and goals that will actually lead to to tolling in the free traffic. The 2006 annual road construction plan still sets out a plan for the introduction of a new electronic toll system in free circulation by the end of 2008. Ten years ago, however, a closed toll system was abolished. Well, the appropriateness of tolls and taxes in relation to the costs incurred, environmental burdens or benefits obtained should be corrected accordingly. It is necessary to eliminate the disproportionate benefits or disproportionate payments of freight vehicles and to introduce a fair relationship once and also to establish them with a strong lobby such as motorists. Modernisation and construction must also be accelerated to other areas, including, somewhat conditionally speaking, to a development where the economy of new roads is high or highest. I expect to seriously introduce free movement tolling, taking into account trends in the future. Perhaps it is possible to bring the matter forward by the end of 2008, just as it intends to resolve, say, in Germany. The German federal states want to introduce blames for passenger vehicles or for anyone for whom the toll is not based on the distance transported. The EU needs to make use of funds that require a prior realization and therefore funding. I believe and expect that the ministry with a strong transport policy and Dars with a realistic plan will be able to achieve what it promises and plans in demanding systemic projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. I must say that it is truly unfair to compare this model with the Balkan and Argentine model; with the Argentinean possible, but not with the Balkan model. You know, in the Balkans, highways are more or less built. And if you are going from Copenhagen to Istanbul, you will have to go through Slovenia through sections where there is no highway. But this has already been done in the Balkans; we have been slightly overtaken. Apparently, with the construction of motorways, which have been so widely predicted for years, I think 1993 will be a huge problem by the year 2000. However, as far as this law is concerned, the story has already begun with the adoption of the budget. It has already become clear that this government will no longer respect the principle that has been applied for a period of time: one third of the toll, one third of the state budget, one third of the debt. We have a symbolic amount of 8 billion in the budget, and we owe a billion euros. In view of the projected budget, I must say that by 2008 we will spend everything we are guaranteeing today and that the government will come for a new loan - if it provides in the budget as much money as it provides now. Because given the volume of Darsa's budget for the construction of motorways and what we are spending in the state budget, this loan will be spent by 2008 and we will come up with a new loan. What are we gonna do until 2008? By the end of 2008, we are supposed to finish the road cross, we will not have a coastal road, we will not have a Phyrnska road against Gruškov, I do not think we will have the road Trst-Reka, any choice, no talk about the promised third axis, no speech, and a variety of connecting roads, which are mentioned and what will be found for sure. The undeniable fact is that we are moving only to loans in the construction of motorways and that we can do this relatively quickly, not saying what will happen to railways and so on. Plus, I'd like to look at some of you saying that the guarantee is not an obligation, please, some of you are mayors when you make a budget, let alone get instructions from this same finance minister, all the guarantees go into the congregation's debt. Now, on a national level, it's not a debt, of course, it's a debt. And there's something else about the tolls. Take a look at the tolls in the European Union and the motorways, and you will see that they may be a little higher, maybe where they are a little lower, so it is unacceptable for Slovenians to pay more tolls than others. You broke the self-financing model for highway construction [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u93	Mr. Targethon, thank you very much. Mr Hwauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Given that we have an open debate on the LDS amendment to Article 1, I will say in the introduction that I will not support this amendment in any way, because it blocks the envisaged construction of motorways and does not allow sufficient financial resources to bring the programme down to the intended scale and dynamics. The fact is that in Slovenia, in the middle of the previous decade, the decision to finally go to the highway project was taken, and a funding model was also chosen, where one of the main ways of financing was also budget funding. During this period we have built quite a few kilometres of motorways, there has been a significant increase in traffic along these roads, the development of Luka Koper, we have become full members or a member of the European Union, and thus we have gained access to relatively cheap funds in the European monetary market. However, with the dynamics and scope of the highway construction, we cannot possibly be satisfied. The plans that were put in place were carried out more slowly and the amount of funds needed was several times larger than originally planned. Although I do not know on the basis of which laboratories and studies these programmes were prepared, I suppose that at least someone with a similar document with which he is waving forward today could have operated and that this would have enabled one real planning. We know that a number of sections in Slovenia that are open, which are being built too slowly, where the situation is very critical, mentioned were the premurski or pomurski motorway, Phyrnska highway, and Slivnica do Gruškovje could still find them in Slovenia. The model that has been used so far has clearly shown that it cannot meet all the needs in this area, so of course I welcome the Government's intention to accelerate the urgently needed construction of motorways and to find one stable and also a longer-term source of funding. Of course, I do not agree with the fact that we owe Slovenia, Slovenians, grandchildren, I do not know, uncles, grandmothers and grandchildren, etc., so we owe the company Dars, which has the intended stable source of funding. With each section that will open up, the revenue from the utility will increase when we start collecting, presumably in 2008, the toll in a new electronic way, we will collect much more tolls than we are collecting today when we collect just over 60% and all of this will have a favourable impact on Dars' income and, of course, one guarantee that Dars will also be able to repay these loans. However, if you applied the proposal that you are advocating for more funding from the budget, this would in fact mean a more direct burden on Slovenian taxpayers, and on those who are charging the state budget today. But I think it's better that the roads are financed in the long run to pay those who use them, so even those who are today, I don't know, in diapers and those who are barely born. But every single one of them, as much as it will use this road in the future, is why, of course, I advocate such an approach, and so do I. This amendment, which seems to me to have been given with some great ease, without any alternative, will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your word. First of all, I would like to say that when I try my opposition colleagues to see that their discussions are about two, three years ago, when we adopted some of the key documents in the area of motorways, this is a resolution on the national programme, the Dars law and some of the debt laws. All the things that we then pointed out to be a problem are now being pointed out by them. At that time, they heard, today this is the main motive and the main point of all discussions of the opposition Members. If you set up some technology with some law, some principle, some concept, then you can't turn it around overnight, and you can't stop it, so you have to move it on. As far as the amendment of the Liberal Democracy is concerned, I think it's controversial. It's a technique first. If we look at the amendments you're making, they have a typical characteristic. Either it's going down by half or it's going to increase by 100% what's planned. In this particular case, you've reduced things by 50%. But this amendment is also very flawed. In particular because no specification is attached to this reduction. What sections, though, should be deleted from this scope of the debt? You have maintained a comprehensive, whole system of specific roads in the basic text of the law by reducing the amounts by half and now we do not know whether some, for some sections, will cover the whole section, for some earthly works, and for some what you have probably predicted, what drainage is possible. In short, the amendment does not meet the technical criteria because it does not specify, due to this envisaged reduction, which sections of this should also be deleted. I would like to say that, in May 2004, we adopted a resolution on a national highway construction programme of EUR 4 billion 600 000 by 2013, and in this amount, an amount of EUR 2 billion was foreseen for 600 commitments, either as a loan or as a guarantee. We now have a law in front of us that covers only 40% of the projected debts. Instead of 2 billion 600, only a billion. And I do not see any particular reason for such a reduced level of indebtedness to be in any way problematic. Not particularly because only two months after the Resolution on the Construction of Motorways was adopted, you adopted an annual plan for the Dars work programme, in which you included everything you promised during the pre-election period. This is said to be the early construction of the premural arm, the early construction of some other sections and in this amended annual plan, the annual work programme of Dars, which means according to the content of the national programme's rebalancing and done in an illegal way, in the wrong way, you have done nothing but timely, physically shift the completion deadlines, but you have not repaired the financial structure for such a modified way of building motorways. And I estimate that this programme and this annual plan of Darsa's work for 2004 is, in fact, a major pre-election speculation. What you have written down in this programme will be carried out by this government, so it needs funds to be made available if it is to stick to these deadlines, these deadlines defined in the 2008 year need to be provided for financial construction, financial resources and these funds are part of that quota provided for in the national highway construction programme. It does not go beyond anything and is not likely to be questionable on this side. The issue of asset recovery is also raised several times. My colleague Cvikl once said that the toll would have to be raised, something similar was repeated by Mr Rop, today he was talking about an increase in the volume of the toll. He said that it was necessary to ensure or increase the volume or raise the toll by 40%, but this matter is not problematic, but only raising the capture or closure of the system means 50%, means the increase we need without taking into account conservatively planned traffic growth. At least that's how you signed up for the 2004 Dars Annual Programme. Conservatively planned and there you have also found that this matter will virtually not be disputed. I would like to draw attention to another thing that occurs more often, namely the issue of consent or the guarantee of these laws. If I read your 2004 annual work programme for Darsa, which you adopted in July 2004 and when we talk about the indebtedness of future generations, I would simply read item 1.6. you will see how much of the debates you are having today are aligned with what you have concluded when you were in the government, and that is all the ministers, Mr. Swickl, neighbour of Lahovnik, Rob and so on. It says: "In 2004, Dars intends to improve the conditions of existing loans to some lenders. The main reasons for the refinancing are the abolition of the revalorisation, the abolition of the TOM clause, the alignment of the contractual interest rates with the current situation in the financial markets and the extension of the manual of credits." In short, you had in 2004 an annual plan for Dars' work written that you would continue not only until 2025, but also continue to burden the generations that are coming. It also states: "The refinancing will be carried out either before the additions to existing credit contracts are concluded or through the issuance of long-term debt securities. In the event of additions to existing credit agreements, the refinancing will be carried out within the limits of existing consent laws and guarantee laws. In short, the guarantee laws were a mandatory component of Dars' debt package and you predicted so. And when Mr Cwickle is talking about the condition of the country, in which cases there is no need to issue a guarantee law, I think he is confused with what he voted for in the government he was in. This is, the annual programme was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 29 July 2004. You were a minister. And I think, I would say, such deception or interpretation of matters as is ever possible and when nothing is possible is malicious and does not have any basis in any act and in any document you adopted when you were in the government. The next thing, which also partially affects implementation and the provision of own resources for the motorway programme, is also the Dars Act. In the Dars Act, you've written a lot of things that don't actually have any technical or normal basis. They were originally owned, it is said that Dars was transformed from a non-profit or a profit organisation, that is to say, the property law has not yet been implemented, but this means in its base. And on the second side is the generosity of the previous government to Darsa, because Dars can charge himself a commission of 5.49% of all the business he does, which is automaticism, the machine, and that's what you have written in Dars' annual work plan. Yeah, I can read it to you. I'll show you if you don't believe it. And the other thing is, which means an additional very large exemption from highway money is the cost of an engineer. Also in Darsa's 2004 annual programme, you wrote that this amount is 4.35%. This means that they are from the highway programme to exempt certain funds which are no longer allocated to roads in the motorway programme, but those funds are standing somewhere and are not activated. It used to go back to the highway program, and now these funds are being deposited. One with an agenda contract, the other with a concession contract. So it would be good to read about these things. I'd like to point out one more thing. As regards the provision of resources for individual projects, including for the motorway programme, it is essentially necessary to follow from the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia in 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007. And this government faced a situation where the 2005 balance had to provide 70 billion tolls to cover the gaps arising from the ongoing implementation of the 2005 budget. Mr. Squeakle, you'll have the opportunity and you've had it, and I haven't bothered you at all, please. In fact, it was necessary to do so and these holes must be covered and this money must also be provided, and this means that the state budget at this point must also be restructured, redistributed and, if we do not want the volumes to be reduced on certain items, alternative resources must be provided. But alternative sources in this particular case are from the resolution on the national programme and reach only 40% of what you yourself predicted. In the event that, as one of the speakers said, it would not provide a means for the development of local communities, because you have collected this money and prevented the development of local roads, for example, if we did not provide a means for rail transport and if we did not provide a means for state roads in a significant increase, we could only be driving on macadam roads after about two, three years. There would be a collapse of the entire transport network. And if we want to be honest with this country and with the things that we have before us and which we will also accept, then we must say and discuss honestly the entire set that we have before us. It is not only possible to take certain things and make a spectacle out of it and tell what will happen if this happens in a way that will be done. What I said earlier would have happened: there would have been a collapse, a breakdown of state roads, if there had not been increased investment, there would have been total destruction on local roads and very large problems, and there would have been a significant increase on the rail network. As for the loan or bond guarantee, which we are considering today. It's about, once again, your 2004 program, including your promises. This is a matter of funds which will be used successfully, if necessary, by 2010, if necessary, but for the call for parts, it is necessary to ensure that the procedures can run smoothly. And I am sure that this country will also be significantly more successful in drawing on cohesion funds than the past government. And there will be a replacement of these slightly more expensive financial resources, which will draw upon, if necessary, significantly more favourable and cheaper state resources. And to conclude, I'm very surprised that the failure, the failure to implement the project in the promised time frame, is the one most wanted by those who actually forced it. The biggest opponents to ensure the overall financial structure for the implementation of most roads by 2008 are in the Liberal Democracy, which have recorded in the annual work programme Dars that it is necessary to ensure an early termination; this was similar to the third development axis, but I don't know which one, or maybe the third A development axis, which may also occur once or for any other. In short, these matters need to be seen when we discuss whether or not this matter is necessary. There was also a great deal of talk about the financial coverage and sustainability of the system or debt. The study, which you like to quote, tells us that the system is financially sustainable, that it will also be covered under the condition that interest is up to 6%. It's just written; I hope you've read it. And I don't actually see any special problems if Dr. Križanič wrote it in his study. And it talks about the sustainability of the system to an interest rate of 6% per year on leased loans or bonds. So all this intimidation is completely useless. And with all these demagogos you're doing, you're essentially causing those people who are for a serious business to stand out. And this is all due to all these matters that are happening in these stories in the National Assembly in this mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Squeakl, you asked for a procedural proposal. I'll give you my word, but please don't abuse this institute for controversy and debate. Here, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, Mr. Squeakl.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u98	Mr President, my procedural proposal on the basis of Article 69 is related to asking that, in view of the debate we are having - and we are having a debate on the amendment of the Group of Members - Members who are not doing so - and now we have had one long debate on everything possible, just not this amendment - please note this. I think this is set out in Articles 77 and 78, in particular in Articles 77 and 78. For it is that a fellow Member has spoken about many things, but not what we are discussing here. Here we are discussing the law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia to numbers, for a scale not yet established in any of the national councils of the adopted act. That is why I am evaluating, and that is why we have also proposed an amendment that speaks only of what is in line with the resolution, everything else that is mentioned here, from government decisions to what is not legal basis. This was also pointed out by the legislative and legal service. Therefore, Mr President, please, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, use the Rules of Procedure and, in so far as the Member, the Member, speaks of what is not the subject of the amendment and I think, in the main, that we have adhered to it, with the exception of what Mr Tanko has just said to warn Members of this. So my procedural proposal is that, in accordance with Article 76, 77, 78, the Head of the Group of Members, who has now spoken about everything else for 15 minutes, except the amendment, by which we wish to align the law with the resolution on the construction of the national highway programme, the resolution adopted in this National Assembly, is an official document to remind him that it would not interfere with the continuation of a debate which has nothing to do with what is going on here. This is about rapidly changing the key elements of the resolution, and this is done by amending the resolution, by amending the law, not in the way it was presented here. Please, if you decide on this procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u99	Well, of course it is true that the National Assembly has been discussing the first article and the amendment for two hours now, which has barely given one line of debt and I have not heard anyone here to abide by this provision in order to discuss this amendment and this article alone. Neither do you, Mr. Squeakle. Nobody. We're moving on. And Mr. Joseph Bajc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. How quickly can you abuse the procedure, how quickly can you abuse the rules of procedure? Mrs. Pechanova, here we go. Mr Cvikl was able to discuss and challenge Mr Bajuk's pension while talking about the so-called Argentine pension at the time of the agenda he presented in this procedural proposal. My God and holy forgiveness! Second. We are considering Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1. Mrs. Purgatory! ♪ You're next time ♪ [[...]] [[The voices from the hall.]] No, no. [[...]] Second of all, I propose to my colleague, Brickle, and [[...]] [[The voice from the hall.]] No, no. [[...]] I propose to my colleagues and their professional services to ensure that they have sufficient time to discuss and that they do not use and wave. And the same for colleague Mrs Pecanovo and Mrs Potrato, given that the two parliamentary groups already have a red card for the time allowed for discussion at the agenda item. Now for the content, Mr. President. We're talking about the amendment, and as you yourself have determined, there's not even a whole line of this amendment. For me, this amendment is incorrect. Indirect for one simple reason - I think that at least two of them have discussed this before me - because they are deleting the amount of Darsa's possible duties by half, and not all of these long debaters from the Liberal Democracy Group, and I don't think the Slovenian national parties are using it, but now we're going to be in the second part of this first article, which lists the assets of credits or debt securities referred to in the preceding paragraph to finance the construction of motorway sections, and I am cutting them off. And I propose that, if the President hopes and suggests that at the end of this debate, you assign them the rest of the time to tell them which of these sections we will delete in this programme, which the National Assembly has already adopted, then for me, I think that for the other colleagues who have discussed in this direction, this amendment will be amended. That's another thing I'd like to say. With the exception of my colleague Terchón, who said that there was no debate on the adoption of today's law that, when the 2006 and 2007 budgets were being considered and adopted, and on the implementation of the budget for those two years, this national assembly, by a majority, perhaps not by opposition, voted on some other way of spending the country's financial resources, either from the budget or from the borrowing of individual legal persons. This National Assembly has decided that the budget we provide from the contribution tax and excise duty also from the so-called petrol toll should be earmarked for other purposes. Let us also remember the amendments in the area of maintenance of reconstruction, reconstruction, and I do not know what, state roads. Yeah, where to take that money. This National Assembly has decided to devote part of the original revenue budget to the maintenance of state roads. We have said that we have also increased the so-called financial development funds to local communities, and there is something else that I could count on, why this National Assembly has decided to allocate funds and, by doing so, I will say, to provide places that are never third, not fourth, not with, not with, I don't know which fifth or tenth development axis will not get motorways, because for some areas it would also be irrational. I think that those too deserve one decent, one normal, I will say, a transport infrastructure that will allow you to come to Tolminska to come to Idrijska, to Cerkljanska to come to Kozyanska or to somewhere else, that we do not talk about everything that you said to some colleagues, which infrastructure, railway and aviation need to be arranged or upgraded in the future. I would not go into whether the current way of financing the construction of motorways and whether the new way of robbing is written with much or little, would not go into a discussion whether it is the Balkan or Argentine way, I think it was Slovenia and that the current ministers and directors of the Directorate, as well as the government, were fully reaching the former, former, even the present Parliament or the National Assembly, and because the then majority, then, in the notes, the authority, accepted it as their own and tried, I will say, within the context of the financial possibilities to fund it, or even to carry it out. And I think that's going to happen in the future. Today, under what conditions the government or Dars will accept or receive this credit when we say and in this law we have also written that it will be possible to draw it up by 2010, I think it should be what I told my colleagues on the Finance Committee, because the Minister is not Meta Malus and we will not be no Matte today, no, I don't know who else, but we will consciously decide that what we have already adopted on the budget for 2006 and 2007 and that you have adopted Members on a proposal from the government and the directorate of the highway construction programme in the past. Whether it will be paid by our children or our grandchildren, I think we should ask ourselves each time when similar duties were accepted, whether they were accepted, accepted and accepted in the future, given that from what you have in your wallet, probably not all wishes or expectations can be paid and that we need to look for such forms. And I believe that the other measures that will be prepared by such a directorate, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Transport will lead to the fact that this guarantee will never have to be renewed, I will tell those who will give credit, but that Dars will be able to service this credit with his own resources and a proportionate amount of money that the budget will provide. And lastly, I would like to say, colleague Cwickle, I think you mentioned that the representative of the Ministry of Finance is not, is, the representative of both ministries, I apologize, colleague Anderlich was this, here is the minister with his group and here I think the director of the Directorate of Public Finance is as the representative of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you. In the end, I can't support this amendment for all the reasons I've listed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. President has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister, the other representatives of both transport and finance ministries! Well, sometimes it gets me wrong when we talk about our program and about your program. I think that the programme for the construction of the highway network in the Republic of Slovenia is important for all, for all citizens, and we have accepted and changed it in many generations, if I say so myself, including this and previous national assemblies. I am convinced that the current national programme, which is that it is good, was particularly good at that time. It is true that certain facts, including traffic flows, have changed since then, even though about 2 years have changed since then, some other promises of both governments and the previous and present ones have been made. And I am therefore convinced that this national programme, which is, is a good national programme not only because I have been very actively involved with it. It is often heard in today's debate that the way of financing the motorway programme is completely changing. I do not call it a change in the way, I think it is just another relationship in this funding, because the fact is that we have funding for the highway programme even now, even after the adoption of the annual budgets and when we will also consider the annual plan of Dars in the coming days, that we still have a way of financing with the budget, with the tolls, with credits and additional, especially EU funds and similar financial resources. I hope that the ministry is working intensively and Dars, of course, to make sure that the introduction or introduction of a toll on the freeway will be initiated, which will, of course, provide a higher toll with a smaller percentage of the individual to use individual sections, that this project will be introduced, as it was set up a few years ago, in 2008, because of the fact that, of course, it is a condition for the implementation of this project, this programme and the condition for the end of the day, such a financial structure as is presented here. I am convinced that the Ministry and that the government also has drafted at least a draft amendment to the national programme which was held in this National Assembly, I think that, adopted in February 2004, it has been amended in those parts where it complements this programme. I think that we have called Programme B, on the one hand, and the relationship in this funding, and that, of course, the calculation that has been properly made for such relations, that it changes it accordingly and that the result is such that it is possible and necessary in such a way of financing to also enter the National Assembly with this consent law or on Thursday with the Guarantee Act. So I am confident that the Ministry of Transport will prepare changes to this national programme in the coming period. I think that, after that, it has always been a problem that, of course, there was a difference between the annual programme, the annual programme for the construction of motorways in each year and between the national programme, I think that we started at the beginning of 2004 with zero, or these two programmes were covered, and therefore this amendment of the national programme will be welcome, with, again, by putting a stop to those facts that have arisen after or with financial coverage of also the so-called programme B and the complementary programme B, as have been mentioned many times in this debate, also different when we say third and so forth axis. So I am convinced that the Ministry has these new assumptions embedded in the amendment to this national programme, and therefore I cannot support this amendment, which in mind reduces the value of the debt or the value of the credit in half. I am also pleased that the Minister will further explain all these dilemmas that have arisen. After all, the Minister took the time to answer, unlike some others, who are responsible for such an important institution as the National Assembly, they do not take the time at all and do not have the right to give any answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! I will not support this amendment, but I will be happy to support the proposal of the consent law for the following reasons. As already in the secondary textbook, we can see that any credit whose effects bring about the repayment of credit costs and the principal is justified. And this thing is more than obvious. I say that this solution, now proposed by the government, is the optimal solution, as the construction of motorways with credit will bring us a very large added value. If we had already built motorways in Slovenia, as we do today or to a greater extent, this would contribute to greater economic growth, better regional development. But since that is not the case, the consequences are more than obvious. Here I would like to touch on the following findings. We know that studies or projections continue to assume that these credit repayments can be provided by means of tolls. These tolls will be paid by highway users and, which is also important, by foreigners. Very many foreigners - I believe that more and more traffic will also be made by foreigners - will contribute to the payment of this loan, which means that we will not be paying off through the budget. Here too we can use a famous Slovenian proverb, who quickly does, twice yes. Why do I say that? If, as I have already mentioned, highways previously built would have faster economic growth and faster development in Slovenia in the past. I'll just give you two examples. White landscape - this is the area from which I come - we know, belongs to less developed areas. The case of the municipality of Semič, where a number of municipally regulated lands are available, cannot be given free of charge to companies. Why? Because they don't have road connections. Once they have road connections, entrepreneurs will be happy to use these lands. On the contrary, the municipality of Mirna Pec, where the government has already confirmed the route and today the municipality of Mirna Pec already has all the land around the future highway route sold out in advance. Which means it certainly brings development, both to Slovenia and to society. And here is an extremely important aspect, as my predecessors have identified. We have so far neglected the maintenance and construction of new state roads, in this way we will be able to spend significantly more money on new roads in the future, and in particular to remedy these existing roads, which we know are in a catastrophic state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President! So, I would say to this and to the other amendments that it's no problem to think about whether there's anything to support or anything to support, in terms of if it leads to development and prosperity and we know that highways today, when they're built, will be too small tomorrow. The government has a fair purpose. I believe he actually wants to build this highway in line with the promised coalition contract. However, I would point to something else, and I know that there is no honesty and transparency in the use of funds. It's about spending these funds. We approve them in billions of dollars and we do not have transparent spending, we do not have legal spending, the government is using this money, whatever it is and knows, the Minister knows well how to sign contracts, how to sign annexes to contracts and so on. And the next thing I'd like to ask you is the presence here, especially the minister. Why doesn't anyone talk about 40 billion tolars collected on an integrated budget for so-called gas tolars? This money, by all means, should have landed back on this highway portfolio. How much of this money we got back, where this money is, and today we are charging for the second time in fact with a guarantee, about borrowing credits, the citizens' obligation to pay this debt, of course, once and for all. And the third segment, which is essentially unacceptable in this, is that our state roads are collapsing. State roads are literally limping through the seams also because of the stupidities we have accepted in this national assembly. We have increased the axle load for trucks and reduced the penalties and today we have impossible traffic on state roads, everyone avoids highway connections and we also have greater mortality on state roads. Nobody's talking about it. Mr. Secretary doesn't see these problems. Let him go to Mursko Sobota, and he will see the houses limping on the seams, because in fact the traffic there is too big. Finally, the fourth aspect of this is the European funds offered to us on the other hand, on the railway portfolio, and we do not want to take advantage of it, but five, almost six billion euros, millions of euros are waiting for us in the account and we do not know how to collect it and start the project. And we know that a second track or railway connection could relieve road congestion and increase the flow of special cars on the roads as well. Nobody wants to coordinate this as if we have a minister who is essentially overloaded with roads and only to see roads, roads and nothing else. I also believe in hybrid experts. But, Mr. Secretary, I would not want a commission to be set up to determine the transparency and legality of the spending of public finances on this portfolio. I mean, I'm sure a lot of people would be criminally responsible because money is being used as it is, a little bit at home. There is no contract that would not have an annex the second day to the basic contract, and you know that, Mr Minister, even though you do not want these debates. And I don't want to set up any commission in this temple to determine this transparency of consumption, because then you will probably be criminally responsible at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u108	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Your Honor! Well, there's been a lot said today. At the outset, I might say that, although much has been done, there is certainly not enough in terms of needs and desires, so any reduction in these funds envisaged is unacceptable to me and I will not support this amendment. I might have warned you of two things very briefly. The third development axis, which needs to be stepped up, needs to be accelerated. And I'm glad this government took it seriously. So it looks like this is where the work will start in the field. Here I would particularly like to express the opinion of the mayors of Kozjanska and some of the Members, who are proposing to the government that this part of the third development axis, the roads from this third development axis between the Styrian and Lower highways, should be carried out through Kozyanska by Šentjur. The arguments are exclusively developmental, there is no political coalition here because we are united Members and mayors from different political options, which proves that the matter is exclusively developmental. But I would like to draw your attention to another matter. These are tolls because tolls include motorways. I think we have a shit nest in this area. In Styria we have an open system, and in the rest of Slovenia we have a closed system, but it is already a bit combined, so it is quite complicated. As a result of this, it is mainly on the Styrian part that trucks in Slovenska Bistrica, coming from eastern Europe, leave the highway then via Vrhol, Tepanja, Slovenian Konjice to Celje, because they avoid motorways in Tepanje and then join the highway again in Celje. With this we are losing a lot of money, but at the same time I do not think it is new if I say that again some protest prisons are being prepared at the Vrholah between the Slovenian Horsemen and the Slovenian Bistrica, where these trucks from the east are causing an impossible situation. This happened because of certain interests of individuals who wanted to have at that section without tolling. If we had a single system, a closed system as envisaged by the European Union, then everyone would pay something for the toll, the toll could be cheaper because we would have picked up more than now. More than half of the cars that drive on our roads would drive on highways, they don't pay, so those who drive on highways have to pay more. It would be very beneficial if each individual paid something small, more traffic on highways and other roads would be significantly less burdensome. A stupid case like this is in Tepanj, where trucks are largely avoided. And then these problems that they are, and I would remind the minister once again that he won't be surprised because he's talking again about the prison at the Vrcholah. The initiative has already been given, I have been on my own on one initiative, but not for the prison that we have explained how things are going, but this matter is somehow moving forward and, according to recent information, it is once again being said that they will be doing some strange prisons there, which is probably not in the interest of anyone. With this, I just want to reinforce that if we had a structured system, a unified system, it would probably be different. It is therefore necessary to regulate this system as soon as possible, and also to arrange the other infrastructure as soon as possible, as far as the highway is concerned also for the other regions in Slovenia, so that these regions too will somehow be connected to the rest of the world. That is why, of course, I do not support this amendment to reduce funds, because if I advocate the construction of motorways, I cannot be at the same time for less resources. However, I am aware of this full responsibility, and I will support the original proposal proposed by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I didn't have a chance for a replica before. Since we still have some time, of course I would like to answer. A colleague of mine said that anyone who goes to London and borrows one billion gets a confession. If that were the case, then all LDS ministers should have such recognition for 12 years. As for the terms of the loan, colleague Anderlich, if you look at the last loans, the guarantees for the loans you gave in 2003 and 2004, that's quite another thing that's before us today. The cost of borrowing credit shall not exceed 0,2 % of the value of the principal of the individual loan. In 2003, 2004 these costs were 0.75%. The laws we passed on the guarantee at the time show that when debt securities are issued they must not exceed 0,15% of the nominal value, the real cost shall not exceed 0,15% of the nominal value of the principal. In 2003, 2004 it was 1%. So it's a much more favourable condition. And that's what I said. If the government could not do so, it is, of course, the National Assembly who must change these conditions as a change of law. And to a fellow Member of Parliament, Rob. He says I missed the point of the problem so Dars won't be able to finance it. At this point, of course, we don't know that. After what the government has proposed and what the government has studied, Dars is in a position to repay these guarantees when the tolls are changed. And for closure. That's a really high amount. The point is that we will benefit from this in the next few years, until 2010. Once again, control over the use of these funds is essential. And I can come back here a little bit. When you were amending the Dars Act in the previous term, you expelled Darsa from the supervisory board the National Assembly as one who had two representatives in Darsa’s supervisory council until that time. Now this is no longer the case, but the government will, of course, have to pay full attention to this current composition of the Supervisory Council so that these funds will be used rationally and that the future cost of building a kilometre of motorways in Slovenia will be reduced accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At the outset, I must firmly say that I will not support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament. It means a strong hand brake in the dynamics of building the Slovenian highway system, while also negating the promise of the previous government to build, among other things, the pomurski krak highway by 2008. The proposed number of EUR 500 million is flat force, it is a round number, and for this reason, I consider this amendment to be a round one, i.e. less serious amendments. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we must accept and face the need for Slovenia to speed up the construction of motorways. Such is also the annual road construction and renewal plan for 2006. We need to speed up the construction of the Slovenian highway network. Slovenia is still not connected to motorways within its territory, let alone to the European Union. We can only imagine what will happen when, if the European Union is joined, Bulgaria and Romania. We have a hunch about the experience we have in Prekmurje with Slovenia's entry into the European Union. I won't think of it. I'll tell you the exact statistics. I just got some new statistics today. The data source is the Murska Sobota Police Department. Let me just say this once more for orientation - I may have told many five times - what Slovenia's entry into the European Union meant. If we look at the border crossing of the Long Village and count only freight traffic, then we find that April 2004 is, it is said that just before Slovenia enters the European Union, 29 000 356 trucks passed through this border crossing. So, let's ignore internal cargo and passenger traffic. In November 2005, 84,000 644 trucks passed through this same passage. It is likely that the number of millions will be reached this year. The record was reached last year, on December 8th, when 4 thousand 266 trucks passed through this border crossing. If we divide this into 1440 minutes, as long as the day has, then we find that we have almost 3 trucks per minute. These are data that are eloquently indicating that we need to accelerate the construction of the Slovenian highway system, and of course this costs a lot. I'll have a hard hand myself when I'm in some way in charge of craftsmen, even though I need to understand what that means. In fact, we'll only be tasked with those who will drive on this highway. And if we use all the spares we have to collect the tolls, then I don't have a headache. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u113	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. And Mr. Secretary. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to answer the most raised questions in some way and, above all, the dilemmas raised in the debate at the time of the adoption of this consent law are exposed. First of all, I would like to say that highways are a multi-generation project of highway users, and I hope that there is no multi-generational project of public budget consumers. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the amendment that has been tabled, especially for one basic reason. In any case, this is the least of the reasons why we should provide around €600 million in credit for the projects envisaged in the national programme. It is only the difference that is linked to the reduction of funds from dedicated resources. Allow me to say a few words in this introductory part about drawing financial resources from the European Union funds. I must say that, in the future financial perspective, the Republic of Slovenia has also run very intensively between 2007 and 2013, as it is now, to obtain these funds, particularly from the cohesion funds of the European Union. In 2004, she had already successfully acquired funding for the Smlednik motorway section - Krška Vas on the lower motorway leg, amounting to €42 million, and the funds were exhausted in 2005, approximately. 60%. However, the remainder of the draw is foreseen for 2006. In 2005, a section of the Gorenjska motorway section, Vrba - Peračica, amounting to 15 million euros, was declared by the Ministry of Transport for Candidates. During the period 2007-2013, the Ministry of Transport will also apply for the motorway sections of the basic programme of the resolution on the national programme, namely the Pomeranian motorway leg, the Beltinci-Lendava section, then the Lower Plus - Ponikve - Hrastje along Trebnje and Mirne Peci section on the lower motorway leg, and also the Slivnica-Drazenci-Gruškovje section, this is on the so-called Fernian motorway leg. The total length of all these sections is about 70 kilometres and the value of the financial resources we want to draw from the cohesion funds or funds of the European Union is estimated at between 250 and 300 million euros. Allow me also to make one assessment of the issues that have been raised during the debate. The fact is that we should in some way provide funding of around €600 million for the dynamics set out in the national programme or in the resolution of the national programme, which was corrected in 2004. In this regard, questions are raised as to why, in some way, derogation from the law on the provision of dedicated resources. I would like to say that in 2004, at the time of the previous government, this law was not respected because the earmarked resources were reduced by about 8 billion tolars. It is then that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has ensured an increase in state roads already last year at the 2005 rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and this year around 7 billion and, of course, 7 billion in the coming year. Then it's the needs on the railways. What has been pointed out today also several times to follow the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the previous government of October 2004, to accelerate the construction of the ferry and thus to build a suburban motorway leg, which is of course about 175 billion tolars, five years before the deadlines in the national programme, in order to provide the necessary means of dynamics, which is being reduced in some way. Finally, I would remind you that in the procedure, the 2006 Annual Development and Reconstruction Plan, which shows that the dynamics of the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, according to the national programme's rebalancing, is increased by about 26% according to the resolution. The question raised with regard to interest. Today it is difficult to give a nominal number as to how much credit we will be leased in the final variant. But the fact is, in the national programme or resolution, about €3 billion 640 million of credit is envisaged. And it will depend on the arrangements and the conclusion of contracts for this billion euros, as well as the subsequent loans that we will still take to build up the highway system and, of course, on the results of the reprogramming of the loans already hired, because Dars is already starting these procedures. The question was when is the turning point or when highways would be the free burden of the credits they had rented. We estimate that this point is somewhere between 2040 and 2050, depending, of course, on all these arrangements and also future leases. That's it, President. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u115	Thank you, Minister. Since the list of discussers has been exhausted, I conclude the debate. The vote on the amendment will take place today in the framework of the vote, which is at 13.50 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume at 1.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u116	Dear Members and honourable Members! We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. I understand that the voting devices are working. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the law on disabled persons, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the law on disabled persons is not suitable for further consideration. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Are you going to ask me whether it's on behalf of a member group or on behalf of a private group?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u118	I think you'll say it yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u119	You usually ask. I will speak on behalf of the Group of Members. The Group of Social Democrats will vote against the decision of the working body that the proposal is not a suitable basis. None of the discussers, nor did the government, have found that marriage is not a suitable basis. We all agree that it is right that the deadline for determining disability and status should be reopened. We all know that the government, which has much better information than individual Members and Members, often makes laws in which the exact numbers, what the obligations of the budget will be, do not say. You probably don't have to explain how many times this happens. This time it's about the disabled from the self-conquering war that would be, thank God and luckily, just a little something and it wouldn't be a big financial obligation. We all know that the government's promises that this law will come once in the future are not specified. It may be soon, perhaps a few months or a year later, but the disabled are waiting and will not be able to exercise this right. If today's bill were to be adopted, we could take advantage of that. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u120	One moment, Mr. Potch. Please calm down!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u121	It is therefore necessary to have a minimum of good will in order to meet the legitimate requirements of the affected benefits. It is not a matter of whether, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, you will agree to the opposition proposal. You will grant the disabled the self-reliant war that wants to establish the status and thus perhaps the rights that other disabled persons have under the War Disability Act. Think about it, not about whose marriage you will support. Finally, let me say this if, despite all these arguments, we fail to be able to reject the proposal of the parent working body and adopt the law, I will, in advance, use this case whenever I have the opportunity, as an example of how the coalition at the head of the government speaks one thing and does something completely different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you. Is there any other explanation? Here you go, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u123	In my own name. Good. I will, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. We will also oppose the proposal of the decision in the Slovenian National Party. We are confident in the Slovenian National Party, I stress that this law could remain in force until the adoption of a new one, which we have already heard today that it is in preparation. Our conviction is also based on the fact that we all know that making fun of and increasing the number of disabled people in the war of independence is not possible. The disabled are those who have fought for this country, who have unfortunately been destined to remain disabled and why this law would not protect these people, representing their interests until a new one is put in place, which is likely to bring about such or other changes. We'll talk about these later. It would be fair on our part to keep this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u124	Thank you. There's no more explanation. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, for whom 44 voted against 27. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the prohibition of the production and transport of asbestos products and on the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production in an incorruptible manner. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the law on the prohibition of the production and transport of asbestos products and the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production in asbestos is not suitable for further consideration. Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr President, for the words of the House of Respect. I propose that you do not support the decision of the National Assembly's parent committee and thus give a green light to follow up on the amendment procedure proposed by the Social Democrats. The fact is that 10 years after the adoption of the basic law, a new range of asbestos patients in Slovenia was discovered. We have said this several times today, on Slovenian railways, that in addition to the Soča Valley, which was in the past and still the most burdened today, we have two other major centres in our country, Ljubljana and Maribor, and that training of personnel in the field of medicine and asbestos diagnostics and raising awareness of the leadership of individual companies where asbestos has been used at times, the number of beneficiaries of the right under this law will increase. Therefore, I think that the adoption of this law would buy us time to make an appropriate, qualitative revision of the government law currently in the procedure. Our law is supported by many organisations from the State Council, the Chamber of Commerce, trade unions, society, to individual companies, where asbestos was sometimes used, so I think that this law could be adopted today, because if I quote the Prime Minister, who said on the first day of this meeting of the National Assembly that it does not matter where a proposal comes from and who signed it, it is important who and what the content of such a proposal is. That's why I think the coalition could support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. Mr. Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you. I'm joining the call, too. Look, the disease doesn't work and it doesn't behave according to our wishes and regulations. Otherwise, we could ban disease and order health. There are new hotspots, a disease that gradually shows its dramatic dimensions, and it is our duty to cover all its rights under this heading until the last patient. Since the government regime announced will not regulate it, the victims themselves do not believe it, it is weak, their rights are falling, it is better, more appropriate and fairer to extend the law already in force, so I join the call not to support the decision of the parent working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u128	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This country, we must be aware of this when we support or support the decision of the parent working body, that this country is responsible for all patients with asbestososis today. And in fact, if you do not take into account today what has been put to the vote, you will be able to guarantee at least the same rights as those granted to patients in the previous period, because the law has already been extended once, and last December has ceased to apply and today, when you do not support this proposal when you are the President-respected, can I say in peace what I think? [[...]] At least let the dying saints be your death, people die because your non-sanction is what it is. We have more and more asbestos patients. And the fact is that this country has earmarked in the new budget, in 2006 and 2007, for 700 million less than was provided in previous budgets. The law expired, once again, with the 12th month of last year. And this proposal, which has been rejected by the parent's working body and marked as irrelevant, gives patients the opportunity to address the Commissions responsible for diagnostics, which can determine the treatment and provide adequate compensation to patients. Those who vote today in favour of the proposal that is here are actually very immoral. That's nice of me not to say anything else. And it would be right until the new law comes to allow these patients, who are now more and more, because the latent period of this disease is long enough to at least report to the committee responsible for identifying this disease, which was appointed by the minister. This commission is also paid from this fund. And that they normally get compensation and go into disability retirement. You're gonna stop this today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u130	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u131	Since the ban on the production of asbestos raw materials and the production of asbestos products, this country has done much to restructure industry as well as to address the consequences of this asbestos production in Slovenia. Unfortunately, it has not been possible in a decade to complete the entire operations necessary in this area, from identifying the health problems of people who have been employed or who have lived directly in this area. And it was probably wrong that the law was limited to a certain period of time and that it was extended only for so long that it expired from 31.12.2005. And at the very least, it is necessary to extend it for a time when a new law will not be in force, which will be passed when it does. And this is one of the cases that is not related to the current situation in the country and the current composition of the government. It's a law that lasted, if you want, over three governments, or over four governments, and it's only now that this government has stopped and this government is real, no, and now we're not going to solve these problems until we get our own marriage. That's not what this is about. And if it is right that these problems are being resolved, and we all admit it and expect everyone, then it is also right not to allow in the National Assembly a legal void whereby patients and those beneficiaries will stand in line until the new law is in place. That is why I will oppose the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u132	Thank you. Mr. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much. In Novi Slovenije - The proposed novelty of the law will not be supported by the Christian People's Party. For this reason in particular, because we are convinced that we are convinced by the Government, the legislature, that the law is valid and is in the state budget for the implementation of this law, that sufficient financial resources are provided in the state budget. Last year, around 700 million of these funds were made available and 220 million were spent. This year, around 350 million of these funds are in the state budget. Above all, the country is not to blame if new and new hotspots are emerging. A new law or extension of this law will not prevent these new hotspots from appearing. This new law will not prevent patients who are already infected because we know that this latent period is very long, that they will not die the way they have died. By this law, which is truly expected and already in the government procedure, I hope that we will solve all these problems that have accumulated so far when railway workers have not been taken into account when they have not been considered as those entitled to compensation, workers in construction companies working with asbestos products, etc. Once again, we will not support this law in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u134	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u135	The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in explanation of its law filed a year late, more than a year late, wrote itself, stating that the expiry of the extended law was a legal void until 2005 and that a new system law should therefore be adopted. No one can convince me that there is no legal void if the government itself has found out. I was convinced by the government, so I signed with my colleague a bill to be tabled by the government. I said that once before, not to Members. This is the responsibility of the government to the people who, through its commission, must be provided with protection, legal protection, social protection when they are sick, and have the right to compensation and early retirement under the law in force so far. And that is why I think, colleagues and colleagues, especially those who come from Primorska, especially those who are from Styria, from Maribor, those who come from Primorska, and you know what happened at Izola Shipyard, and I call upon all of you to realize that until this law, which the government has submitted, will not be possible for any of the patients who have just been diagnosed with the disease to pay a tolar, no compensation. I would just say this: Are we waiting for the state to save money at the expense of those who will die in the meantime? That's what I'm asking you. I think it's too harsh for me to think of anything like this about our government, but you, my fellow Members and colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u136	Thank you. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. On behalf of the Group of Members. You've only measured me for two minutes before. The fundamental objective that we want to achieve with this law is, once again, to extend the validity until the end of 2006 and thus to fill the legal void, which is indirectly recognised by the government in the explanation of the new law - as also said colleague Breda Pecan - and to enable the drawing of funds from the state budget. In addition, we are increasing resources to implement this law from 350 million to 692 million. If the legislature had any comments, and if it believed that the current law was in force without this amendment, then it would have written this down in its opinion, but the legislative and legal service did not write this down, but it stated that there was no comment on this proposal for a law, I repeat, no comment. To quote further from the justification of the law that the government has sent to the parliamentary procedure, it says, after that novel one year ago: "With the third amendment the application of the law was extended until the end of 2005, from the beginning of the following year it would be a legal void in Slovenia, so the government has adopted a decision..." etc. So that's what the government wrote down, and I don't know why you're saying otherwise today. A year ago, all of you, not only in the opposition, even in the coalition, supported the amendment of this law. And nothing's changed this year. So I appeal to you before you press the button to read what you said a year ago and what some people are saying today. Nothing's changed in one year. The adoption of this law would give me a little more time for the government to listen to the social partners as well as to the health professions and, accordingly, to amend the law which is in the parliamentary procedure. Or, as he said, once again, Prime Minister, I will quote him now that "it doesn't matter who's finally signed under a case, it's important to make it happen." I wonder what the result of the vote will be today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted. I'll say that as a former employee of Salonita Anh's marriage, I will not support it. One year ago I supported it and I was in favour of an extension or we were all in favour of an extension, but now I will not support it for one simple reason, because the government law is already in the process and will solve the problem of asbestos patients throughout Slovenia. I think we need to be so loyal to other patients and to other patients in other environments and factories that we can also give them the opportunity to benefit from the results of the asbestos law. I think that the law that is now in the procedure needs to be harmonised and rectified until a certain me. If we didn't have this law on the agenda today, I think we'd have an asbestos law that the government has prepared in a second reading. So I think we need to do this as soon as possible to get to the real law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Some people really don't know what you're saying in this room. I'm sorry. If we read the government proposal, then we would see that it is at least three times worse than we propose to be extended or proposed to be extended in 2006. And we did the same at the beginning of 2005, when the government promised to adopt a law in the first summer of last year that would adequately solve and eliminate all the consequences of asbestos-induced diseases. And the replacement of roof covering, I don't know, the water network from the asbestos pipes. But only for illustrations of those who speak nonsense. In Article 1 - today we have tabled in the Slovenian National Party 9 amendments to the Government proposal - Article 1 states in our amendment that the phrase "at the time of the production of asbestos patients" which is written in the context of the sentence in paragraph 1 would change this fact that those companies which store asbestos products that have indirectly dealt with this production without direct production and also workers who have not been exposed to it could also be cured, but at times at limited intervals. And that's what would solve the whole thing. Your marriage, the government proposal in the procedure, violates rights and is, as has been said, at least three times worse. So don't fool the public. However, as I have already mentioned, it also provides for half of the funds for 2006 and for the second half of 2007 less than approved in 2005. So don't fool, don't lie, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u142	Thank you. Mr. Clavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u143	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I hope I don't talk nonsense; I'll try to talk about people. Last year, when I was talking about asbestos law here, I confirmed that proposal and at the same time firmly hoped that by the end of the year, or at least at the beginning of the year, what we all did together, I repeat, we all promised here together. Today, I miss both ministers in the field, both the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Health, because we are talking about a very serious problem that is by no means worth mocking. There are a lot of things that are unresolved, and I am alone in the dilemma of what to do today and how to vote. I firmly believe that once this issue needs to be resolved definitively and that the law must be made as it should be. If I were a district minister here right now, I'd ask him what kind of disease is this? What's it called? I'm sorry, I can't remember right now. I'd like to ask him what asbestos is, what is the disease, where we can attribute asbestos -- only those who worked with asbestos, or those who lived over a fence of good 10 meters away in kindergarten. Or if I give you information that's correct, that a hundred of these people who lived on that side of the fence were suffering from pulmonary malignancy. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] So that's data that's extremely serious and that also makes us say that it's a professional disease - earlier I couldn't remember a professional disease - whether it's also a disease of those who [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u144	Thank you very much. [[The speaker speaks without a microphone.]] Thank you, Mr. Clavor. I must mention that the point is now the vote, which is why the Minister is not here. Even in the case of the morning hearing of this item, the Minister of Staff, acting under Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, shall not discuss, and shall not be included in the debate, in the case where the home labour body proposes that the proposal of the law is not suitable for further consideration. It's the rules of procedure. Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u145	Your Honor! After everything we just heard, I have to say very briefly. Representatives or Members and Members of the Club of Liberal Democracy and SD are convinced that they are deceiving Slovenians and Slovenians. They're saying something that's definitely not true. I will quote the content presented by a representative of the Ministry of the Economy in the Committee's debate, who said that the Government does not support the bill, because in her opinion the law itself does not add to the law because the existing law is still in force and is being implemented. Articles 10 and 12 of the existing law provide that the Republic of Slovenia provides funds for the acquisition of the insurance period and is responsible for compensation funds, which means that there is no legal gap. And the commission can work on it. So, dear colleagues and colleagues, please read this very well and I ask you not to allow yourself to do what you are now doing to deceive Slovenians and Slovenians and also to lie publicly. That's what I hope to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u146	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thank you very much. This debate now looks as if some of you are for asbestos patients and others we are against. Of course, this is not true, given that I am aware that the government proposal is already on board on Wednesday, I think there will be no harm in rejecting this proposal today. This law, which is in procedure, we Members will be able to finalize in our own way so that it covers everything you think is missing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you for your word, Your Honor. A few words about deception have been heard now in these explanations, and I wonder who is deceiving someone. The government's law is really in the process. It is also true that it violates or takes rights from patients with asbestos. Look at the explanation of the marriage, and you'll see. It squanders funds in the budget from 700 million to 300 million. Who's fooling who? And not least, if the government had a serious purpose, you know, even in a procedure that could make a hybrid law, and today we could both deal with it. That's misleading, gentlemen! Normally, I will vote against the decision of my mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u150	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. Today, it has been said several times that before the decision at the same point as we were about a year ago when we voted in this House's call to extend the law in force. At that time, there was a promise that we would get a law that would upgrade the previous one. And given that it has also been said today that this will already be the matter that we will be considering next week, it is necessary to bear in mind all the comments that fly to this law. And when we talk about the extension of this law, we must also bear in mind when we can decide on this law in a way that will answer all the questions that we are talking about here today, that we want to answer correctly all the dilemmas that today are the subject of the content of this law. And on the one hand, we have a lot of dissatisfaction within patients, and on the other hand, we have a lot of dissatisfaction with employers. Those who, together with the government, need to find such a solution so that we will not be exposed on the committee to the cheerleading group against each other, so that they can bend hands again to make a decision that will not actually benefit anyone. For this reason, I will today support the extension of this law and I will vote against the decision because I believe that the solution is quite far off in the future, because it is such a solution that would be right for all those who will be included in the solutions to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u152	Thank you. Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I strongly reject the sentences handed down in explanation of vote, because this is also a violation of the rules of procedure. But it is true that one who likes to lie in all others sees or sees a great lie in other matters. I've already told the board that times are better to keep quiet when you explain how you're going to vote than you're trying to explain. Several times we have been here in this National Assembly today, and I should like to allow it again. In its proposal for a law which was tabled in the procedure, the government wrote: "With the third amendment, the application of the law was extended until the end of 2005." This is the novel that was adopted last year, unanimously. Commendably, unanimously in this House. She went on to write: "From the beginning of the following year" - that is, this year - "would be a legal void in Slovenia in this area, so the government has decided to prepare a new law to enforce the rights of citizens who have become sick because of asbestos." That means we're in a legal void right now. And there's nothing more to add here, and there's no way to read the deception, and even less lies. I will vote against the decision that is proposed so that we can continue to adopt this law, which will fill the legal void and allow the government to draw up, after its assessment, a quality proposal for a law that can also replace the law that would be adopted in this procedure, i.e. this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I'll back the decision. I would like to say that this case is an eloquent example of how the Institute of Explanation for the Voice may be misused for the populist purpose of the debate. That's too bad. All I know is that the subject matter of the existing law has always been a nuisance since its inception. This issue is not so simple that the law has always been extended by amendments made by Members, nor has the previous government ever proposed it as a government amendment. However, I know that the existing law is not good, because even the funds planned for this purpose cannot be applied under this law. Therefore, it is pointless to prolong such a law. It is necessary to release the procedure as soon as possible for us to get a new law and, in the case that is already already in the process of second treatment on the home working body, this law should be amended so that it will also be useful in practice for those who have become sick on the basis of contact with asbestos. On the basis of the existing law, these people, especially those people, are deprived. It is true, however, that production under this law could have been substantially restructured into unbreakable state aid, and I will therefore support the conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u156	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 30. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] We're not interrupting the vote. Please check it out first. I guess we don't have to remind each time that there's a light on the right. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the 23rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia Dars d.d. to rent credits and issue debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia amounting to EUR 1,030.15 million. We continue with the second reading, that is, by deciding on the amendments tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 1. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u157	On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy, I will present this amendment of the Liberal Democracy. With this amendment, we are coordinating this law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia to Darsa to rent a billion 30 million or 247 billion tolls of credit with a resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways, because we believe that these funds need to be limited to a maximum of EUR 500 million. Why 500 million euros? Because the resolution on the national programme for the construction of the motorway beautifully states that there are three sources: that the resources are the state budget, that it is the source of the debt and then the toll. Neither Mr Christmas, nor Mr Bajuk, nor the Prime Minister's previous performances have ensured that conditions will be met so that Dars, who today will be given an agreement on the debt, for an additional EUR 30 million, can return it on his own. If this volume of funds is limited to EUR 500 million, if we send Mr Bayuk to European technocrats at the same time, not to European bankers, if Dars, of course, ensures that the tolling project is carried out properly, then Dars could possibly return it himself. Everything else is a violation of the resolution and a violation of the law on earmarked means to finance the construction of motorways. These two laws are in force and with our amendment we only align this law with the applicable resolution, with the applicable law on the provision of funds. If, of course, you do not accept this, as this government has decided, you will simply secretly owe Slovenian public finances because we will have to provide Darsa with resources in the coming years to refinance all these obligations. This money will not be returned as envisaged by the resolution on the national highway construction programme until 2025-2030, but will be returned in 2060-2070. Restricting funds with the support of this amendment simply means that we are going to implement the highway programme as quickly as possible, but not as expensive as Dars's over-indebted course.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u158	Thank you. Mr. Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Of course, I support our amendment, and if it is not adopted, I oppose the bill. Not so much because of the serious concerns I have as my former Minister of Transport or as an MP, but because as a lawyer, I can't take another earpiece to the legal state. If I am not mistaken, the form in which the sentence in Article 2 of the Constitution is written in a hard-line form: the Republic of Slovenia is a legal and social state. I feel somewhere from December 2004 onwards that this is not a hard form, but merely a religious wish of the opposition. Why do I object? Because such a drastic reduction in investment transfers from the state budget and a drastic increase in the funds from the loans hired, that is, almost 700% significantly changes the concept so far and, of course, legally, it is not possible without at least two regulations, namely the law on the provision of dedicated funds for the construction of state roads and other, so on, our highway Bibles, the national programme for the construction of motorways. This did not grow on my pupil, it did not grow on the zenith of the opposition, as the legislative and legal service of this national assembly, the Slovenian Parliament, says. And the Ministry and the government unfortunately don't want to listen. Therefore, I have no other option than to support on the one hand our amendment, which at least mitigates these consequences, and on the other hand, if not adopted, I oppose the bill, which does not mean that I oppose the construction of Slovenian motorways, but, on the other hand, another way of financing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Dear Members. I myself will support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy, especially because it seems to me that we are significantly better able to manage the financing of the construction of the highway network, especially because we are trying to make more use of the funds from the European Structural Funds and the budgetary resources. During the Committee's debate, we made it clear that it is bad and it is not good that the budgetary resources for this purpose are being reduced from 38 billion to only 8 billion dollars. And we have a consequence today, the consequences are that the state will have to grant more than 247 billion tolls to Dars. The words of the Minister of Finance, who, you will not believe, is not with us today under such an important law, and we have become accustomed to it, are, in a way, ridiculous. Indeed, according to the methodology of some international institutions it is not considered to be a public debt, it is not likely to be considered by the methodology of the London bankers, even in Argentina it is not, and the fact is that in the end it will be paid by Slovenian taxpayers as soon as possible. Anyone born today will still have 125,000 tolls of this guarantee on his back in 2065. That's bad. I am sorry that this has happened in such a fast way without adequate justification. I oppose this, of course we fully support the construction of the highway network, but this construction can be financed substantially differently, significantly cheaper, so I will support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u163	On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr President. Thank you for your word. The Group of Social Democrats will support the amendment in the majority, not because of what has been understood by the debate so far under the law itself, that this amendment prevents the construction of motorways; on the contrary, this amendment allows the government or gives the task of giving the government more effort to achieve, with more work, that it will be cheaper to build motorways because it will have to make sure that it draws on the necessary means to build motorways from European funds. It is said that, of course, it is more comfortable, easier to rent a billion Euros of credit and gradually by 2008 these loans will draw and build motorways. And in doing so, we can count on the possibility from a loving God that we will be able to collect more money from tolls, not at the expense of higher tolls, but that all those who do not now pay the tolls will have to pay, or that we will finally introduce electronic tolls on condition that the European Union agrees and that through electronic tolling we will be able to absorb enough money to repay credits. If that does not happen, we know that we will have to absorb funds from the budget sooner or later. And the condition that the reduction of consent or the reduction of the loan guarantee by 500 million instead of a billion euros means only that the government should, in the next two years, not be able to cover enough funds, obtain sufficient funds from cohesion funds so that it can then return to the National Assembly, tell why it failed, and propose an additional loan guarantee. So it is not true that reducing the sum means preventing or slowing down the construction of highways is not true that this opposition is the construction of motorways, it is only more rational and cost-effective treatment of public money. That's why this amendment is appropriate. However, if not adopted, the parliamentary group will still fully support the law, because we believe that there is a need to provide a stable source for the construction of motorways, given that the government has proposed and the National Assembly has adopted a budget that significantly reduces transfers for the construction of motorways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u164	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u165	I would not support this amendment if I received at least one answer today to any of the questions I have asked and would not support it if I had been assured that this would ensure the construction of motorways by 2008. But no, this is where it was predicted that you were coming next year with 300 million or I don't know how many new guarantees. And because I believe that it is possible, as we confirmed our agreement last year, that for two credits, I believe that when you recalculate and probably take into account any suggestions from the debate that you will be able to make any changes. And if in this way, as you have now imagined, it is not necessary to implement, we would come up with certain changes. As a matter of fact, it is essential that we limit this one-off big debt to a gradual one, as this government has already done in the past year and is forecasting for next year. However, I don't mind if you come very quickly, even on Thursday, when we implement the annual programme or when we consider a twin of this law to say: for the entire construction of highways we need so much, so much already we have drawn credit, we draw so much or we intend to use it under this law, we will pay so much for others, and we will end up paying interest, so much will be profit, etc. If you come with this information, then I'll back you up, if you want, and even a billion or two. But as long as he's so ignorant, it's hard to support. And that's all it's about, without all the insinuation, whether someone's up for or up against building highways.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u166	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u167	On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to say that we are very aware of the responsibility we are taking with this guarantee, but we cannot support this amendment, because it is weak, it is flawed, it is flawed, it could be said that it is populist. This amendment tells us to halve these funds, but it does not tell which section of the construction of roads we should then give up. If the applicant had a serious intention and really wanted to do so, as he relates here in the National Assembly, then the second paragraph of Article 1 should also list all those sections which should not be built by 2008. This government and this government coalition have decided to complete the highway programme by 2008 and this is the only logical and correct path: this deficit must be compensated as soon as possible from previous years. As for the explanation of this amendment and the above, if the government is to be forced to acquire more European funds, we find that this government is working on it. If you listened to the Minister of Transport, he also said how much of these European funds are being used at the moment, unlike the previous government, which was drawing zero on this segment. In the Government's explanation and in the government's plan, about 250 to 300 million under this guarantee will be obtained from the European Union's Hochean funds. At this point, we have no reason not to believe it. And for that reason, once again, we will uphold the law. I also like the position of the SD when they said they would support the law because it shows that they are aware that it is necessary to speed up construction on this segment. While in LDS you are really trying to block this construction with such and other proposals instead of speeding it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u168	Thank you. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u169	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Actually, I didn't even want to explain my voice, because I don't know how much you're interested in my voice, but you probably guessed it. Of course, I will support the amendment of the LDS. But I would warn myself - because I have a highway more than enough, perhaps the current minister knows that I have enough of it - this position, which Mr Sok said in explanation of his important voice, after some of us have put through a rather strong "stress" in this hall and also elsewhere, when we have been accused and even criminalized for certain things, that we have advocated to block the development of motorways, but it is a little bad. It's not about praising last year's snow of the previous government, but, for God's sake, think about what you're talking about! And once again, the highway needs to be completed. Unfortunately, these roads were not built 20 years ago, unfortunately we are no longer investing in another matter today. Every book on development that you take into your hands today tells you in one sentence - not to invest in building infrastructure, invest in knowledge, in technology, and no longer in infrastructure. But unfortunately, we still have to do this because it wasn't built in the '70s. We have to end this. And we have to end up not tying too many future generations. This loan is too much of a commitment to future generations. I think that the perspective indicated by my colleague, Cwickel, and the Group of Members, is to go to funds in this building, that it is the right one, and that we could take advantage of it, and that there would be no need to give Dars these commitments for a billion today. That's enough for 500 million so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u170	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u171	Even in my own name. Of course, I am pleased that some Members of the ruling coalition are aware of the responsibility you are accepting today, while you are in charge of your children. What needs to be said, however, about the amendment and why I will support it, is that it is not the task of the opposition to tell which projects will be financed by the EU government. This, I hope, is still the task of the government - or we have changed something in this country. That is why I will support the amendment and, above all, I would like to support the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that, instead of providing only 1% of the EU budget for 2007, the previous government has foreseen 40%, out of 160 million euros has been a little less than 8 million euros earmarked for the highway programme, and you have foreseen only 3 billion dollars in the budget, 1% of the available 300 billion. The Communication from this National Assembly of Executives should be: Gentlemen, talk to European technologists, not those who are willing to give you billions of euro credits, only that you have the State guarantee in the back. Because if those who offer us billions of euros of credits were willing to do so without the government's guarantee, then that government would also deserve congratulations. Not Mr. Bajuk, not Mr. Christmas, not Mr. Janša. They had a problem, and they solved it by joining the National Assembly for a billion EUR 30 million in debt.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u172	Thank you. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u173	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! I said earlier in the debate why I cannot support this amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club. I will only give a brief reason now, namely that this amendment is simply not consistent with the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways. There is a need to provide 600 million euros. If this amendment had a number, not so round, so it's also a round amendment, if it had a number of 600 million euros, then maybe I would have thought about it, but not in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-07-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. Please see if there's a light on the voting device. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 71 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 41. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. I am concluding the second reading and moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 13. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 13th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, to be resumed on Thursday, 9 February at 9 a.m. Now at 3 p.m., I invite you to the courtyard of the great hall, so that at tomorrow's cultural holiday we too will be refreshed and enriched.
