ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Please take your seats. I begin the 14th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Anton Anderlič, Aurelio Juri, Josip Bajc from 3 p.m. on, Roberto Battelli, Ferry Horvat, Ivan Yelen, Breda Pecan, Milan Petek, Jakob Presectnik. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša to the 1st item, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, representatives of the Organisation of Slovenian National Minorities and Slovenian expatriates and residents to the 13th item, representatives of the Slovenian Compensation Society to the 24th item, and representatives of the Council to the 31st item of the agenda. I welcome everyone. We are moving on to the agenda of the 14th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We prepared the draft agenda in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and received it by reference to the meeting on 17 February 2006. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have not received any motions to withdraw the item from the agenda. We are moving on to a proposal to expand the agenda. The Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development proposes that the agenda be extended by considering the proposal for a decree on the call for a referendum and setting up referendum areas for setting up municipalities and setting up or modifying their areas. You received the committee's proposal today with a shipment. Would you like a representative of the proposaler to expand the agenda? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda for the consideration of the proposal for a decree on the call for a referendum and the setting up of referendum areas for the establishment of municipalities and for the establishment or modification of their areas. Let's vote. 69 Members and Members are present. There were 63 votes against 12. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The meeting will consider this item as the 20th item of the agenda, which is on Wednesday, 1 March, after 20th. I therefore propose to the assembly that today's meeting should set a agenda, as you have received with reference and, of course, with the addition just adopted. We're voting. The vote on the agenda is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, 69 of them voted against. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 14th meeting of the assembly has been set. I hereby suspend the session and continue at 3 p.m. with the first item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u2	Dear Members, we continue with the adjourned 14th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 27 Members and Members in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the heads of the parliamentary groups and in accordance with Article 244(2) and Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the national assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister. To this end, individual ministers will answer the questions raised at the 12th and 13th meetings of the assembly, to which they have not responded due to their absence. The Member who has submitted two questions will ask the second question after all the Members who have been notified have asked one question. Members shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The Prime Minister and the Minister shall reply to the question within five minutes, as well as if the question has been raised by more ministers. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members, I ask you to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. Regarding this item of the agenda, the following ministers apologized for today: Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr Dimitrij Rupel, Minister of Transport Janez Bozič from 16:00 p.m. on, no, is present, also said Master Andrej Vizjak, Minister of Economy. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the Prime Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days, which will be published in a bulletin of the National Assembly. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. You have received a review of the questions sent and initiatives not yet answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As has already been said, the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question will be asked by Dr. Pavel Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! In a letter addressed to the presidents of the parliamentary parties and Members of the Hungarian and Italian nationalities in the National Assembly, you offered a proposal for an agreement with which parliamentary political parties would commit themselves to working together constructively to find the best solutions to the challenges facing Slovenia. Your call, Mr President, I do not simply see as an expression of your willingness that the important development issues that our country is facing are not being dealt with, however, with by the widest possible range of relevant political actors, in fact, by this kind of willingness, but also as an expression of the hardship in which you have come. This tribulation could be described as a gap between, on the one hand, the flea reform rhetoric of major changes and, on the other hand, the daily policy of small, legal and implementationist measures of the government and the parliamentary coalition. In short, we have not seen much, quite the contrary, of the planned measures. In the last year, the coalition, which we believe has adopted several laws and other measures, which we firmly believe are contrary to the development strategy of Slovenia and also to the framework of economic, social reforms. As part of the anti-reform of targeted measures, I am certainly considering the reckless amendment of pension legislation, which raises questions about the sustainability of the pension system and the harmful development and political division of Slovenia into two cohesion regions and could still be listed. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, I ask: Are you prepared to agree to a thorough review and revision of those laws, regulations and other measures that have been taken within the mandate of your Government, which, in our opinion, the LDS Club, deviate from Slovenia's declared development guidelines, or are you prepared to do so as a first step towards an eventual agreement on certain development issues in Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. Gantar. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u5	Thank you so much for asking. It is true that I have addressed to all parliamentary parties and to the Member and Member of Hungarian and Italian nationality the initiative by which the government wants to gain as wide a consensus as possible on the future development of Slovenia. The initiative does not randomly bear the title Partnership for Development. It is not true, however, that we chose this step after others failed. For, as I wrote in the letter on the initiative itself, I hope that you have read it, this is my third attempt. In the first two, I have already invited the presidents of parliamentary parties to special direct talks or meetings, both of which took place first, even before the government even adopted a proposal for a framework for economic and social reforms. At that meeting, it was found that the parliamentary parties were still not familiar with the material, which led to them or you took a few weeks to think about it, followed by a second meeting when the material was processed. At that meeting, however, we simply came to realize that most opposition parties were not ready to talk, so we did not continue. Only one of the 70 proposed measures was discussed. I don't know if it's because those who came to the meetings didn't even read the material after three weeks because they were dealing with other things at the time, or because they were just looking for an excuse not to participate in the project. Once again, the government has offered this material for consideration as a possible supplement and, to the extent possible, a majority consensus before adopting the proposal in the context of economic and social reforms. Only after this did it not happen, mainly because of the unwillingness of the biggest opposition party, did the government then adopt this framework and go ahead and prepare some measures. At that time, however, they said that we would make another attempt before the key bill proposals came to the national assembly. And this experiment is now before you in the form of the Partnership for Development initiative. This is not to say that it is simply a repetition of some general objectives in the sense that it is only copied from the development strategy of Slovenia in principle, as this Partnership for Development document also contains key guidance in the context of economic and social reforms, particularly when it comes to amending tax legislation or tax reform, when it comes to greater flexibility in the labour market and when it comes to privatisation. These are the three key areas that have been completed in this context and which are, in terms of defining that this is our common objective, also summarised in this document that you have received, called the Partnership for Development. Since I sent this document and presented it to the public, I have said that I do not imagine that the signature of this document means that every single sub-legislative act is possible then, and hundreds of them are needed to bring this project into line, within, I do not know, an absolute or two-thirds majority of Parliamentary majority, before it is sent into Parliamentary procedure at all. That would be an illusion. And that's why we didn't propose that. We imagine that, of course, well-intentioned well-intentioned on the other hand, it would be possible to reach agreement in a similar way as we did when it came to Slovenia's entry into the EU or NATO, where we, as the opposition, were backing the goals, the key steps, but we did not demand that every measure be brought into line with us before it was taken, because it would be illusory. And we have a very practical case where things went well and we're just suggesting that we do it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Gantar, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u7	Completing the question. The answer didn't impress me too much. I think that Mr Prime Minister has said something that he has said on a number of occasions in general. To my specific question: Is the Prime Minister ready to go through some fundamental, some, not all, clearly, of course, some laws, some measures which in our view deviate from reform policy, including those you have proposed, I have not received an answer to this question. Why am I asking that question? Because it seems to us, Mr President, simply to say, Sisyphus' work to deal with you and me on some things that we think we have similar views, but at the same time you would be taking measures that are completely contrary to what we think is right. I won't be long, but before I ask the supplementary question, I'd say that. See, in the world for the last 15, 20 years, there has been a debate about what some countries, regions and cities have raised above others to grow faster technologically and economically. A lot of research was done. I would like to say that in recent times, the popularity of a book by a sociologist called the Rise of a Creative or Creative Class has been aroused. I've got her right here in front of me. This book says very simple. This rise was everywhere where tolerance and tolerance were. What concerns us is that you are reducing the degree of tolerance and tolerance in society, the attitude towards others and so on, while at the same time going to economic reforms. That's not working. Tolerance and tolerance should be increased. I therefore ask once again the question: Are you prepared to sit around some fundamental everyday issues that relate to the development of Slovenia and the laws you have already adopted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u8	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u9	Thank you. Now I usually don't personally expect answers to rhetorical questions. So, I think that what is written, what you have now partially summarized, is mainly written on the five pages of the letter with which the Liberal Democracy responded to this positive initiative of mine. These things are added because of rhetoric, and now I can see that this is not the case. Now in this letter and in part with what you have just said, you express your expectation that, as a condition for you to be willing to talk about the Partnership for Development initiative, I do not know, we will withdraw from the referendum on the law on RTV, I do not know how we would do this to change certain laws that have already been passed, which have nothing to do with the future development of Slovenia and so on. Perhaps you do not expect serious answers to such questions. What we have offered is all written in the Partnership for Development document and this document is perfectly clear and we would also like to receive fair and realistic answers to such an offer, not that the few of us are now required to abolish the 2004 elections in order for the Liberal Democracy to be ready to talk about the future of the country. I am particularly disturbed by the fact that we are very unworthy here in this argument. Mr Gantar, in this letter you wrote: your government, Mr President-respected, has, by changing the way we have coordinated the level of pensions, which we have strongly opposed in the LDS, endangered the stability of pension reform. First time. The government has not compromised the stability of pension reform. And secondly, in the Liberal Democracy, you did not strongly oppose this, but you voted in full favour of the law. Of the 62 Members who decided on the pension system law, by which we aligned the reconciliation of pensions with wage growth, 62 members voted in favour, of which all members of the Liberal Democracy, who were identified at the meeting, did not define some of them, but they did not vote against them either. The coalition doesn't have 62 votes. There are few laws that have been adopted in this House with such agreement. And to say that you strongly opposed the law is a little too severe.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u10	Thank you. You want Mr. Gantar, procedurally. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Procedurally, on the basis of Article 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister. This proposal is simply based on the fact that this question, as well as the response of the Prime Minister, is an opportunity and an opportunity for us to speak in a thorough and broader manner in the National Assembly on certain economic and social reform measures that we could not otherwise talk about in a broader context, but only in individual laws. Of course, I must say that the cynicism of the Prime Minister has sometimes exceeded the limits, but I will not compete with him in this regard. I will certainly remember the debate on pension reform, what is at stake and what is at stake, if you do not believe the LDS, you believe the Commission of the European Union or anyone else. As some Members voted, we can read where your fears were, and we also wanted certain changes and we proposed them and our proposals were not accepted. So if you're saying that some of the measures that we're proposing to revise have nothing to do with reforms, then, Mr President, I say that's not the case. They've got a very important connection to you right now. And that's exactly what I'm trying to say is that you can't enforce economic, social reforms in a mile that is becoming increasingly tighter, more closed and less democratic and more liberal. There are no reforms on this mile, and that's what these studies have shown you, and that's what this book has shown. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u12	Thank you. The proposal by Mr Gantard to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question on the matter, will be decided by the State Assembly in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The following question will be asked by Mr Miran Potrč to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Economic and social reforms are also one of the key issues that we need to talk about in the coming months and years. Therefore, your proposal, of 12 February, we understand in our party that we are aware of the necessity to extend the range of partners in the decision-making on reforms in order to ensure that the content of economic and social reforms is consistent with the broadest possible range of people, employees and trade unions, because, in our opinion, this is a condition not only for admission, but also for the implementation of reforms. Our President, Borut Pahor, you know that this idea for a joint reform programme has already been sent to you almost a year ago, and therefore I cannot fully agree with your assessment of the three initiatives that have been given so far. I was on two, I got a third letter, too. But I don't think that's essential. It is essential that we find, on the basis of the current situation, an opportunity to form the necessary common arrangements. In doing so, we cannot simply compare the reform agreement with the way and content of the agreement on the European Union and NATO, because it was a fundamental political decision. Here, of course, they are very, very important, not only a decision and a goal, but measures by which we will achieve the objectives, with a way of implementing each measure and the consequences which we have different interpretations for the purpose. Therefore, Mr President, we ask the following questions: How will you allow the parties to the development partnership agreement to evaluate the programme of envisaged government measures equally and to ensure, also with your consent, that they are excluded or supplemented from the programme and amend those measures which are not agreed upon? In which cases you will ensure to the signatories, at their request or warning, as well as to the social partners and the affected institutions that they require a specific debate and reassessment on certain government measures before these measures are put into the legislative process, because we know what is going on in the national assembly. Finally, how will the signing of the agreement ensure that the proposed government measures in the National Assembly are dealt with on a regular basis, with the active and separate role of the parliamentary groups and with respect for the constitutional role of Members and Members, but not under the assumption that it should already be accepted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u14	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u15	Thank you for asking. I think I've had a little less of an answer when Mr Gantar asked. First, let me say that the President of your party actually sent a letter proposing such coordination, not a year ago, a good six months ago, when we started talking about reforms, and the same week I called the first meeting of the presidents of the parliamentary parties and said that it was on his initiative because I wanted to test what the actual willingness was to do what was written in the letter. What happened to these two meetings, I said in advance, is now my third attempt. Some things have happened in the meantime, the time goes on, the government has a responsibility and cannot wait for the last opposition group to decide on a dialogue. I have already said this when the first meeting was held, and I have also written in this letter that the government, when it comes to these strategic decisions, is ready not only to coordinate these proposals or these drafts, but also to listen to better solutions for certain measures already proposed under this framework of economic and social reforms, but also later in the process. Even so, it is rare that a law, especially when it comes to a difficult system of things, would be adopted exactly as the government had proposed. The normal parliamentary procedure usually leads to improvements, corrections and so on. On these key strategic issues, the government is prepared to carry out different coordinations before the law enters the parliamentary procedure. I said that at that first meeting, and today I repeat it. Nor is this attempt to achieve greater consensus between parliamentary parties, the only attempt to find consensus in society, and the negotiations within the framework of the social partners for a new social agreement, where we want to harmonise some of the key frameworks at this level. That is also what we promised when the government accepted this framework, of course we keep this promise. Of course, what you are saying is what you asked in the first part of the question, whether the government is ready to move away from all solutions that are not fully agreed upon, but unfortunately, I cannot answer firmly. You've been alone in this house for a long time, and you know it's hard to get total consent. Even when we voted in the old Chamber on a constitutional law that had conquered Slovenia, there was no complete agreement, they were 4 against. We don't expect total consent. But we expect, as far as possible, a great deal of consensus. And, as has already been said, I think it makes sense by consensus, which probably existed in the face of a more state-of-the-art opposition, at a time when Slovenia joined the EU. In a way, it is only a continuation of this step, where only formal EU entry is not what the final objective was. It was just a road. However, if we want to take advantage of this position that we now have, even through this consensus that we have built in the past decade, for the benefit of all for the common well-being, then it is only necessary to decide on a certain modernisation in Slovenia. And we now want to adopt this modernisation, and then we want to do it with as much consensus as possible. All those who want to participate in this, to contribute in their own strength, are, you are gladly invited. And what is written in this document by the Partnership for Development is concrete enough is a big enough obligation, especially for the government, that if I were in the opposition, I would accept this offer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thank you. Would you like Mr. Potts to complete the response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Surely your answers will also help our parliamentary group, the party, to make decisions. I have also pointed out that, at least for me and the Group of Members, the fundamental question is how to ensure that substantive issues can be dealt with equally, so that what is considered to be acceptable and best in the National Assembly can be ensured. In this regard, allow me to have the right to have an assessment of the possible impact of the opposition on the functioning of the National Assembly, but a different opinion from yours, and in very rare cases we have had the opportunity to properly influence the content so far, there have been more when, even when the government has not expressed explicit opposition, we say, we will arrange things better for another time than you suggest, and more comprehensively and therefore rejected our proposals. With regard to this, if I understand your answers correctly, I still have some questions. If it is a desire to sign a proposal to agree to the whole package, then of course it is a sort of problem. If essentials are expected to be coordinated and agreed upon in the pre-parliamentary procedure, then this is a good offer. However, if many essential reforms and requirements and measures are expected to go forward with the procedure, their importance depends on their continued action. If they are very, very important, then blackmail or coalition demand will cause problems if they are less important [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u18	Mr. Potch, thank you very much. Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u19	So, the document that was sent is a proposal, and in this accompanying letter I wrote that all initiatives are welcome in this regard as well, which is now open to questions. If your parliamentary group or party knows some technical means of finding consensus that you would like to propose, then of course the path is open. Once I have all these answers, I will decide whether it is also appropriate to call this third attempt or the third meeting of the Presidents of the parliamentary parties and we can also address these things in the form of a specific protocol. We have some experience from the past in this regard. So far, I have received written replies from two parliamentary parties, opposition parliamentary parties, not from yours yet, but, of course, I expect as soon as possible, as promised. The initiative has also been positively defined by the Member of Hungarian Nationality, the Slovenian National Party as well, so that I can see some willingness to go in this direction. The problems identified are by interpreting what the biggest opposition party the Liberal Democracy has responded to. We do not know whether this is a positive or negative response, even in the media they had problems with this, some newspapers published this response under the title LDS in principle rejected the initiative, others accepted the LDS in principle. The fact is, as we have heard today, that there are some conditionalities here, of course we will answer these additional questions to the best of our ability. However, I expect that we will approach this project, which is extremely important for Slovenia, well-intentioned that there will be no excuses to say that if anyone does not want to participate, it will be openly said that there will be no objection. However, I am convinced that if we can find them in Slovenia, we have enough potential to do this project well, without anyone taking any right to know or to demand that all the measures that then, beyond what comes out of this reform framework, are coordinated and adopted as they wish - we know that will not work.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u20	Thank you. The next Prime Minister will be asked a question by the Member States, Mr Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The Italian Government has adopted a citizenship law which allows or allows Slovenian citizens, as well as Croatian citizens, to take over Italian citizenship. I understand the Croatian side, because they did not ratify the legacy of the Paris Peace Treaty and the Exceptive Agreements, while Slovenia did. And despite this, the Italians also offer Slovenian citizens the opportunity to take citizenship, not only to the so-called Rapal border, but also to the whole of Ljubljana. The European Charter states that dual citizenship is not desirable and is strictly against it. Nevertheless, the Italians are trying to take this position and get as many Slovenians as possible on their side. I ask you: How does the government intend to react to the possible outflow of certain Slovenian personnel who, for example, are employed in certain state bodies, as in the military, in the police, in intelligence services, as well as in certain official positions where it would be difficult to believe that they would be able to protect and defend the interests of the Republic of Slovenia by taking over Italian citizenship? The fact is that in this case we will have to decide whether to take Italian citizenship in addition to Slovenia or only to take Italian citizenship. We must be aware that the issue is already quite critical, as the Italian state pays all those who attend Italian schools or kindergartens, this stay in kindergartens, all school and school activities, as well as bus transport, so we have a whole range of people who have come to Slovenia since 1990 and 1991 from foreign republics, from the former republics of Yugoslavia, who have now become beautiful or already Italian citizens, but if not, at least send children to Italian schools. The Berlusconi also works very anti-Slovenian in this segment, because Koper also sends films on TV, provided they are of course not subtitled Slovenian, while they are synchronized in Italian. I ask you again: How do you intend to stop this Italian, could you say an expansionist variant?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u23	Thank you for asking. So the fact is that this amendment to the Italian Citizenship Act 1992 is somewhat unusual. The wider possibility of obtaining Italian citizenship is not a completely new substance, but it is an extension of this possibility, because some expressions are now changed and Italian citizenship is offered also for those parts of Slovenia and Croatia that, during the two wars, belonged to Italy at the time, with some rather loose reasoning or with some more loose definition of these necessary conditions. It is a matter of belonging to the Italian language and culture, which is supposed to be sufficient to grant citizenship. Now, according to the legal order of the European Union, the granting of citizenship is within the exclusive competence of the Member States. Thus, the Italian civilisation is decided by the Italian authorities, to grant Slovenian citizenship to the Slovenian authorities, of course, by a certain lack of desire for dual citizenship within the European Union for known reasons. Slovenian legislation, for example, prevents the performance of certain public services to those who have other citizenship in addition to Slovenia, but in principle and legally impossible to demand and achieve a change in the conditions for granting citizenship in another Member State of the European Union. It is true that the law in Italy does not yet apply or that the amendment of the law in Italy does not yet apply, but it will if, or when signed by the President of the State. Now, what could be the practical consequences in Slovenia? Realistically, I do not think that there can be a very drastic situation, especially because the situation of Slovenia's entry into the European Union has changed significantly and there is a motive for someone who could potentially gain Italian citizenship as a result of this amended Italian citizenship law, these motives, which would be visible, are relatively small; for any citizen of any European Union is already entitled, because of this status, which is comparable, to any Member State, to participate in local elections, to European elections, and to all other rights. The only exception, and this will last for a short period of time, is the possibility of obtaining work in a neighbouring country, but these restrictions will also be lifted because they are time-limited, and then this advantage will not be pronounced, so the government does not expect any mass exploitation of this slightly wider possibility of obtaining Italian citizenship by Slovenian citizens as well. Those who have seen certain benefits in the past, we too have been able to do so under the old law, and some of these cases have been, since we know these controversyes from the 1990s. It is likely that this law will have a slightly different impact in the neighbouring country of Croatia, but this is not within our jurisdiction. It should also be said that this option offered by the amended law on citizenship of the neighbouring country, if implemented, does not provide for automatic distribution of citizenship. In order for citizenship to be granted, it is also necessary to rely on the domestic consciousness of the Primors, or anyone living in this part of the country, where they could possibly take advantage of this possibility; I am sure that these cases will not be practical in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Here you go, Mr. Jelinčič, to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr President: Do you not think that this issue is about facilitating the purchase of real estate? For example, when the Italian banks give their new citizens favourable credits for the purchase, and later these properties could be moved into different hands, so that the new, so-called new – former Slovenian citizen would actually just be a strawing man for the transfer of certain, say, agricultural land into foreign hands. And I think it makes sense for the government to deal with this issue a little bit. In the end, there's something else. I hope you will not agree to the pressures of those who want to end this great day and this great event by banning the military parade on the anniversary of Slovenia's independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u27	We probably all know that the real estate market in Slovenia has been virtually open since Slovenia's entry into the European Union, so that this amendment of the law on citizenship in the neighbouring country cannot substantially change this situation; some speculations could be theoretical due to certain restrictions on the border belt or on agricultural land, but we do not expect that this would in any way compromise any Slovenian national interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u28	Thank you. The next question will be posed by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. Honourable Prime Minister, ministers and government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. From the media, we are aware of a number of violations in the organisation of public events, environmental and spatial interventions, the operation of traders, the irregularity of security services, and the problem has erupted in the case of Lip in all its dimensions. Despite the relatively good regulatory regime, it follows that inspection is rather ineffective and inadequate. As we are all aware that the good functioning of the inspection services is one of the foundations of the rule of law, in the DeSUS Group of Members, we are aware that on 15 February 2006 you and your colleagues met with the main inspectors in the country. In this regard, we ask: What are the conclusions of this meeting and what is the agreement on the functioning of the inspection services in order to make this more effective in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsic. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you for that question. It's an important topic. The meeting you are asking about, I think it was all-round useful, was also the first in the history of a independent Slovenian country at such a level. This meeting has shown that there are several important problems facing inspection services in the country, that some issues have been settled in the past year or in the last few years, and that there is still a lot to be done. We have detected a number of open problems that are such because of inadequate legislation. In this regard, too, this agreement and this meeting will result in amendments to the four major laws directly or indirectly governing the operation of inspection services this year. First of all, it's a roofing law on inspection controls, a law on the regulation of premises, a law on offences and a law on the construction of buildings. Here are the most open questions. Of course, the functioning of the inspection services themselves within this normative framework, which exists, is not always ideal and we have said this to each other. The case mentioned in connection with the tragic event in front of the Lipa discotheque is one of those that further encouraged the search for appropriate solutions. The fact is, however, that the functioning of the rule of law without effective inspection services is simply not necessary, as is the need for professional supervision, which is proportionate. So, within this space of manoeuvre provided by the law, it is up to the people themselves who are doing this work to choose priorities, the measure they can take within the wider palette they have at their disposal, and ultimately ensure that the situation is rectified. In this regard, there have been several indications that many inspections are carried out mainly on paper, less on the basis of the actual situation on the ground. By amending the legislation, as well as by changing the approach, which we have talked about a lot, this should be changed in the future. I think it is also very important to stress that there is a need to change the public's attitude towards inspection services in some way. This particular case, which you cited as the reason for the question or as part of the reason for the question, is very eloquent. When inspection services, as well as some other authorities, especially the police, had previously taken action in the case of this place, they had been labeled too repressive in some media, too rigid, for something that is suppressing the economic initiative. However, after this tragic event has occurred, in these same media, the same services have been identified as ineffective, for services that have not reacted in a timely manner, and so on. And in such an atmosphere, inspectors often do not know how within the maneuvering space afforded by law to do the right thing. At this meeting, we have also pledged by the government that whenever inspection services come into this position, they will be accused of receiving our support for a concrete and proper part. I think that we have also resolved some things by agreeing on better coordination within these inspection services and the competent people at state level, because it is sometimes possible to make significant improvements with this. This meeting will be followed by concrete measures that will contribute to a more efficient and even more proportionate work of inspection services.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. I hereby conclude the questions addressed to the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša. We turn to questions addressed to individual ministers. At the 12th and 13th meetings of the National Assembly, the MEPs are magi. Majda Potrat and Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar and Mr Samo Bevk and Dr Pavel Gantar asked questions of their delegation to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Dr Dimitri Rupl, Minister of Justice of Dr Lovr Šturm and Minister of Home Affairs of Mr Dragutin Mate. Since the ministers were not present at the meeting, the Members requested an oral response to the next meeting of the assembly. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, is also absent today, but he is on the question of the MEP. Majde Potter replied in writing. However, he will answer the question of Mr Bevek at the next meeting. But he wants mag. Do you expect Dr. Rupel to answer verbally despite all this? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. I have been waiting for three meetings with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. And I believe that the problem that I have been asking about is the location of CIA secret prisons, while at the level of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe, I have developed to this extent that I would rather accept the Minister's written explanation, because I would not wait another month, because I do not guarantee that the Minister will be present until then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you, too. Minister of Justice Dr Lovro Šturm will answer Mrs Moice Kucler Dolinar's question about the records of the returned denationalized property of the Roman Catholic Church. Here you go, Dr. Smurf.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The oral question of Ambassador Mojce Kucler Dolinar also referred somewhat to the question of Member Potrč at the 10th regular meeting of the National Assembly, when he then asked questions to the Prime Minister. The question of the Member was already raised at the 12th meeting, but because of the absence of the Member, I was not able to answer, and later I was absent. Although the dilemmas raised by the Member's question have already been clarified, let me briefly explain the following. The Denationalisation Act, in Article 86, provides that the authorities of the first instance are obliged to keep records of the requests made, decisions issued and decisions implemented. However, the summary records of denationalisation shall be kept by the national administrative authorities responsible for the areas in which this law is implemented. Data shall be transmitted once a month. The Ministry of Justice shall only have the power to receive the data provided in the common record by those first-degree bodies. In this respect, the Ministry of Justice prepares annual reports on the implementation of the denationalisation law, with ISA taking care of the collection and publication of statistics alone. IT from Ljubljana. In these reports, which are accessible to all on the website of the Ministry of Justice and which were also published in short form in the Rapporteur of the National Assembly, the Ministry of Justice monitored only the data on assets returned to all religious communities. Data were collected by type of property and never by individual beneficiaries. Thus, no particular information was collected on the property returned to the Roman Catholic Church. Since the Member claimed to have this information, it was only possible to obtain it from its own sources of returned property or from other unknown sources to the Government. The Ministry of Justice is currently monitoring the implementation of the planned conclusion on a quarterly basis and is also publishing this on the Ministry's website. At the end of 2005, the 13th monitoring was carried out. As it is said, the Ministry of Justice does not manage the returned property data, which is why the competent authorities of the first stage are accompanied by the Ministry of Justice providing data to the collection database. At the moment, the data in the collection base shall be kept as they have been kept since the beginning of the denationalisation, except that last year the Ministry of Justice obtained data on the returned property of the Roman Catholic Church on the basis of a one-off consent of the legal person to which the data relate. Since this data had not been kept up to date, the Ministry had to allocate additional funds, over half a million tolls, to the custodian of the records.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u36	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u37	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u38	Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister of the Interior, will answer Dr Paul Gantar's question about the situation in the asylum home in Vic. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for asking. Once again, I apologize for my absence the last time, given that we had international obligations with Minister Sturm, we were unfortunately absent for the last time. On the question of asylum home, however, I would like to say very precisely that since I have been in charge of the Ministry of the Interior, procedures and the status of health care rights have not changed completely. All asylum seekers still have the same scope of health insurance rights and are also exercised in the same way. In the asylum home alone, we don’t have an employed doctor, just as there was no doctor before, we have a nurse who helps individual applicants to make it easier for them to complete their medical care. However, we have a contractual obligation with three doctors who come and carry out health checks on those asylum seekers who are admitted to an asylum home in order to determine their health status and, if necessary, send them to health homes where the necessary health care is provided. All together, the needs of asylum seekers are financed by the State, through the Ministry of Health all the invoices provided for in this Title are paid. With regard to the other abuses that have occurred in the media, which have been raised in the question and regarding the link between what has so far been committed in this regard, I must say that, in the first reports concerning the suspicion of abuse of police personnel in relation to asylum and asylum procedures, I have already ordered extraordinary control - already 15.12. The competent service of the Ministry of the Interior carried out this surveillance within the asylum home and verified all procedures with individual cases. In all cases, it was found that the workers of the asylum home, as well as the police who were involved in these procedures at various stages, did not exceed their powers, did not violate the law and did not act in such a way that there were no additional unnecessary complications. Otherwise, I must also say that the asylum home is a civil institution under the supervision of the Ministry of the Interior, that the police within the asylum home do not have their own premises, that they carry out certain activities in an asylum home only when it is legally necessary to mediate certain matters and that they carry out such activities in the neighbourhood of the asylum home as they do in all other environments where there is no asylum home. In no way can the police exert any pressure or coercion within the asylum home or in the asylum process itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u40	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, if I understand you correctly, there was nothing to be done because the abuse did not happen - briefly, little said, so I am merely supplementing this question with a hypothetical option: Will you or the relevant services allow unannounced visits, such as by Members or groups of Members in an asylum home? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u42	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you very much for the supplementary question. First, if I answer the first part of your supplementary question. It's not true we didn't do anything. It was determined by exceptional supervision, it was carried out for several days in an asylum home and not only in an asylum home, but also at some police stations in Slovenia, where we found after a procedure which is envisaged and by institutions authorised within the Ministry that in specific cases where certain cases have been reported, there has been no overstatement. And that's the essential difference. Overcomings could be, never excluded, of course, people work everywhere and there can always be mistakes, including unintentional ones, which are errors and need to be corrected. Thus, we have carried out inspections or supervision of the competent services, and they have found that there have been no infringements in these specific cases. Therefore, we cannot say that there are some violations within the asylum home. Otherwise, the asylum home is a relatively open institution; we have already repeatedly invited the media to come, to see the asylum home inside, NGOs have practically free access to the asylum premises; even more so, the state has provided them with the premises they use for free of charge for their operations. I personally believe that there is no reservation that Members should not come and see the situation in the asylum home. If you want to do this unannounced, we can also do it unannounced, but you can call a few minutes early and you can also get a proper escort, the director or the head of the asylum home, so that you can properly present the whole process as it runs, and you can get complete information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you, Minister. Mr Ljubo Germič will ask the Minister for Education and Sport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! On 16.1.2006, with a decision to terminate the public service of the Institute for Sport of Slovenia, the government also terminated the institution. In my question at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, I was interested in why the government acted the way it did, and I warned you, Minister, that you had bypassed the national programme on sport in Slovenia, the law on sport. When you refer to your proposal for a decision, you refer to the law on institutions without stating the reasons why it was necessary to adopt an act to terminate the operation of this institution, since you did not state that there were certain reasons for this. When you answer my question, you talk about rationalisation, about economic performance, about efficiency and that you will transfer all the powers of this institution to the Ministry of Education and Sport. Here I have also reminded you that this proposal for a decision has been uncoordinated, at least by what the government is doing in rationalising employment, as it would employ 11 new people in its ministry. Of course, it is now surprising that the government has adopted a decision on the establishment of a new sports institution, which has almost identical names, bearing the name Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia, Institute of Sport. In fact, the creation decision refers to the activities and activities of this institution, in fact, to everything in the Sports Act and in fact everything that the institution has done in its previous form. And of course, the logical question now arises: How is Mr Minister? For the last time, you are not actually commenting on the issue and the fact that you are going to miss the legislation and the national sport programme and argue your decision by rationalising the work so that there will be more efficient and rational work. Today I ask you: On what occasion, have you in a very short time decided to re-establish the same institution, with only a small correction, because in fact the decree is an identical operation? Where, then, is the reason why it is not necessary to rationalise now that there is no need to ensure greater efficiency? And of course, the question is: How will you provide work to the eleven within your ministry and how will you ensure the work of additional employees within the office? Mr. Secretary, I ask you to explain this.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you. Dr. Beast, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Thank you for the question, Mr Germič, for the second in a short time. I'll try to answer and this time please you more with the answer than last time. As far as the reasons are concerned, I can't detect hot water here, I've counted them very clearly for the last time. The state or government had virtually more public institutions in the field of sport, one was also a sports institute, a sports institute in the Faculty of Sport, which also carried out certain tasks for the Ministry, then was another institution, that is the Institute of Sport - Education, which also had formal status as a public institution in the field of sport and, of course, this institution on sport, which we terminated. It seemed perfectly normal and rational for us to try to transfer all functions that by law belong to the public sports office to one institution. In addition, I mentioned for the last time, that institution did not perform all its tasks under the law of certain powers. Some of the tasks he performed more easily and more effectively will be carried out by the Ministry of Education and Sport, so we transferred the workers employed at the institution to the Ministry. Part of the tasks, part of the functions, in particular of the professional development nature, are left behind or transferred to the Institute of Sport at the Faculty of Sport, which will perform the post of the Public Institute for Sport, which means that it is a matter of rationalisation, a more transparent review, supervision of the work of the public institute, which should do so and will do so. If you are specifically interested in what tasks this institution will perform, it is about monitoring the situation in sport and with this aim will carry out developmental and professional tasks in sport from publishing activities, monitoring the readiness of athletes and consulting in training, carrying out measurements - what the institution is doing now and before - and monitoring the activities of industry teams and carrying out analyses. All activities will focus on the best possible service for athletes, companies and sports links with special emphasis on top sport. The issue itself will not have major financial implications for the country, for the state budget. By bringing part of the work and working at the Ministry of Education and Sport, we have indeed increased part of the administrative plan from a formal point of view, and this has reduced part of the public sector, which we have separately; but the key purpose and objective was rationalisation. That we will get as much for the money we have spent on sports or for the activities of the institution as possible. I think we're going to win this reorganisation, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u48	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Germich, would you like to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Thank you for your answer, Mr Minister, of course, I cannot be pleased with him at all. I have a magnetogram of your last answer in front of me. So it is the action of this government within a month and in response to my question months ago, you did not mention by word of mouth that you will re-establish the same institution, but you said that you will transfer 11 employees in the institution into the Ministry of Education and Sport, leading to rationalisation, greater efficiency, the use of the information system in a more efficient way. Today you're telling me, after a good month, that with the same argument it was necessary to set up a facility back. Mr Minister, you have made the abolition of the institution past the provisions of the laws you have to regulate this area, past the national programme, past the Sports Act and refer to a law on institutions that clearly obliges you to justify if they have either ceased the needs or conditions for carrying out the activity. Today you confirm that neither of us is true. For the last time, you have been avoiding the answer around the legislation, and today you are responding to rationalise the work of this institution in order to establish a new institution. When we look at what the decision on the establishment of this institution is, we see that it has three parts, and in the second part you are already talking about the staffing structure, so talk about who will be v.d. the director of the institution, and in the third part of the decision you are talking about who will make up the council of this institution by the government. So we can only conclude the fact that, within the government, as a minister of the government, you are aware that you have adopted a decision that violated existing legislation, but this was only because you changed the composition of those people who were in the institution at the time and in the institution's world that you could put your people in place, and, of course, Minister Virant does not know in my opinion that you will transfer 11 people to the Ministry of Education and Sport. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you for the opportunity to answer this additional question. Of course that's not what you're saying, Mr. Ambassador. We've taken these 11 employees to the Ministry. It is true that the administrative plan will increase, it will decrease in public, but it does not touch Minister Virant directly, we have agreed on this possibility, I have also informed him, so that, some sin from a macroeconomic point of view, there is no financial aspect for the country. On the contrary, for this money that the state has provided so far, we will receive much more services than we have received so far. This was the key purpose of this reorganization. We are not establishing a new institution, I stress once again, this institution has already been established and the state has already cooperated with it in the field of expertise and so far no expansion of employment in this institution has been envisaged. This institution is already project cooperation and the state is already funding, and it seems completely irrational to me that we have three different institutions and three different funding for the same thing. What I wanted was transparency that for the money that taxpayers give to some institution, the services would be adequately designed. So far, there have been no other mechanisms to influence this. This was the only possible responsible action and move. So, it is not about expanding costs, there will be no more costs, there will be no more jobs, and I think that the services that the country will receive so far for this money will be significantly better.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u52	Thank you, Minister. There you go. Procedurally, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u53	Procedurally. Of course, with your answer, Mr. Secretary, I cannot be satisfied. I think I made it clear that a month ago in your answer to my question, why don't you mention in any words that when you shut down the institution, you will establish a new institution with very, very similar powers? That's when you argued that you were shutting down the office because you wanted to have a rational job in this area. I can quote you on the decision the government has taken. And here it says: the programme of the Institute for Sport of Slovenia has been implemented by the Ministry of Education and Sport since the date of cessation of activities. The Institute for Sport of Slovenia shall not exceed any new liabilities from the date of entry into force of this Decision. And workers who were regularly employed at the Institute of Sport of Slovenia on the day of the cessation of the activity were employed at the Ministry of Education and Sport. By word of mouth, not in the Government's proposal, not in your reply, you did not mention that you would set up a new sports institution. But you stated that you would transfer all matters to the Ministry of Education and Sport, which means rationalisation. That you have violated fundamental acts in the field of sport, the national programme and the law on sport, you have not commented, not then, not today. I therefore propose, in accordance with Article 246 and paragraph 3 of this Article, that we hold a debate at the next meeting on your reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. Germich. On the proposal by Mr Germić to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Minister Zver to his question of the mission, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Bojan Kontic will next raise the question to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Mag. Petty Officer, last year you called for a fourth public tender to grant a concession to carry out institutional protection in nursing homes. The results of this invitation to tender are known. Among the four who received the concession were three local parishes. So, out of four three. Since you have taken into account those offers with fewer cities as an important criterion, I would like to ask: On what grounds have you decided that those who have offered fewer seats in these future homes have priority in choosing? At the same time, I am asking you a question to which one of the journalists also sought an answer. It is only a coincidence that the criteria are written on the skin of the church institutions right in the mandate of you, mag. A little something? Or have you chosen to do so because you feel that church institutions are the ones who will take the best care of our elderly?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u56	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you so much for asking. I'll try to give you a quick and succinct answer. On the invitation to tender issued last year, 19 tenderers applied, of which 8 were eligible. However, the rest of them did not provide the relevant documentation, so we rejected them as incomplete, but that is also a legal diction. What were the criteria? Coverage of needs was the strongest criterion, and that is 40 points. Most of the points have been scored by those in the area of administrative units where they are not at home. Then it's the quality of the program, up to 20 points. The highest points are awarded to providers with the best rated programmes. I can also say that the social council has also assessed. Price of service up to 20 points. The highest points shall be awarded to tenderers at the lowest cost of supply. The supply prices ranged from 3,600 to 4,300, which is very high at the monthly cost of the service. Number of capacity points up to 20 points. This is where we gave priority to those homes that are less than capacity. Because life in such units or homes is more pleasant, where it is less of an institutional approach and closer to home than it is said. Last but not least, such homes can be closer to a home where there is less capacity. These are the criteria. On the basis of these criteria, the Commission then made a list, and these four homes were included in the selection. They're all private homes. Once again, it is a matter of granting a public service concession to a private legal person. We also have state public institutions funded by the state. In terms of perspective, we want to balance this offer, both between private and public homes, and we do not intend to go into any kind of privatisation, but with additional capacity to improve the offer. In March, we are scheduled to recommit at least 500 seats. Of course, we expect the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a national programme for the development of social protection, the basis of which is also for the following calls. I can also point out that these 300 seats, which were awarded last year, are the remaining capacity that should have been deployed under the previous national programme, which was in force until 2005. So, the journalists have been well informed, on the website you have criteria, you have ranking points, you have prices, you have coverage, why these have been classified. Apparently, they offered in areas where this coverage is not yet good, according to the administrative unit, the lowest price, apparently prevailed over the prices of the service. Just the ones you're talking about, the Karitas, they're not directly church, but they're Karitas' homes, they have a significantly lower price. This can mean between 20 and 30 thousand tolls per month for older people at a monthly cost. This is a very important price for a pensioner. And then they offered a lower price. Why is that? Apparently, they will build in a cheaper way, including with their own work, also with charitable contributions and apparently also not intend to work on these profit homes, but will do well and modestly and rationally and economically.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u58	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you very much. You've given me a few arguments. To me, the strangest part is that less than you have vacancies, less than you have beds, you have more points. But good. This is the criterion set out in the invitation to tender, but I am interested in the fact that when a society wants to act in the public interest or to have the status of action in the public interest, it must act for at least two years, then it can play a role in this status. These establishments were interestingly established at the time of the invitation to tender. One was set up in September, on 27 September was the deadline for broadcasting. The second was established in Bohinj on 19 September, just before 27 September, when the broadcast deadline was reached. I would like your comment on this: Was this in any way agreed? I ask in particular because the audit committee is now in the process of retraining, and it seems time is quite convenient for something to be done as the minister may have liked. I beg of you for that comment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u61	With regard to the fulfilment of the conditions for acquiring the status of society in the public interest in the field of the operation of humanitarian organisations, this is indeed a condition of prior action and we think that this is also appropriate for someone to be tested in such a way. In these cases, the institution established by a specific mission for a specific purpose has also been established by other legal persons not earlier than that. You mentioned earlier that this is a matter of church affairs. If you ask me what practice the church has, I can tell you that it is about 2,000 years old and Karitas is about 10 years old. If that's what you're asking me, and I think it's a guarantee enough to make this happen, but it's not the same, because, like you, you skipped out on society in the public interest, I had to answer in that way.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you, Minister. Mr Zammernik will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Christmas. Please, Mr. Viceroy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you very much and thank you for your word. Nice greetings from the minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I must say at the outset, Mr Minister, that I adhere to the principle of being hard on problems and mild to people, so I ask you to say what I will now tell you as you are facing the problem, but not as a direct attack on you, nor by any chance, whoever is in your position with this operation of your administration would do exactly the same. 19.7. last year, Mr Minister, we agreed with you in the high participation of the eminent people of your ministry and also our parliamentary groups on how to improve the situation regarding public procurement and expensive construction of roads across Slovenia, with an emphasis on one road that could then be an example to others. Our aim was to make construction cheaper, to make it more transparent, to increase control and thus improve competitiveness. You probably remember this meeting. There we agreed that the Minister's decision would introduce extraordinary control over concrete, perhaps even three roads at different ends of Slovenia, which then did not happen. I will continue to tell you how the matter has progressed, because nothing has happened, but the road has begun to work, the one we talked about for this extraordinary supervision to be introduced, I have informed the Prime Minister that nothing has happened, and then at his initiative came a letter from you that matters in this area are so difficult, here I have this letter because this is a technical project for the reconstruction of this road, which covers a series of activities for the preparation of the investment project, tender documentation and lists all possible things that cannot be controlled qualitatively by internal audit, within your Ministry, you are proposing an audit to the Court of Auditors. [[...]] Of course I have an opinion on this. How will the Court of Auditors, then this road still builds, how will the Court of Auditors determine why it comes after two, three months after the construction of a new building to such cracks? Are they going to drill the thickness of the tampon, which was all over the tender documentation that I received then, past the tender documentation, the performer was part after the game was finished, dug up the soft fortified tampon, slipped his soft mountain, took the previous one possibly onto another road and charged it, and then this happens, for 67 million tolars. I don't know what's going to happen to the billion euros we've given here as a guarantee to build highways. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. Zammernik. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Thank you so much for asking. With regard to this parliamentary question regarding the emergency control of the use of financial resources over the modernisation of the state road, it is specifically Podlom - Kranjska Rak [[Wolverine]] which you have addressed orally to me this time, regardless of the three large-scale answers that have already been provided to you in November 2005 and February 2006, I would like to re-explain this modernisation of that state road. In November, in response to your letter addressed to the Ministry of Transport, I wrote that the Ministry of Transport’s expert services had requested the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia to carry out an exceptional control of the implementation of the modernization of the state road Podlom - Kranjska Rak in order to ensure the most transparent and efficient use of the budget. [[Wolverine]] by the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads since 2000. The Ministry of Transport, within its competence, cannot carry out technical supervision of the road reconstruction carried out, covering a series of activities with technical projects from the preparation of investment, project and tender documentation to the exercise of control over the justification, adequacy and quality of the measures taken and the works carried out as part of the reconstruction. These activities cannot be controlled by an internal audit operating within the Ministry of Transport, and we have also proposed to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia to carry out exceptional supervision of the implementation of that project. We reiterate that the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia can carry out the audit procedure at the highest possible level of reliability that can be achieved in such procedures in the Republic of Slovenia. Notwithstanding the above facts, we have obtained practically all the information you requested in your letter in February 2006 and you are now requesting it in your oral parliamentary question, even though we have already provided it to you. This is the data on the project technical documentation phase of the idea project and the project for obtaining the building permit on investment documentation, the decision on the selection of the most favourable provider we have also presented to you the design budget of the first stage, the analysis of the tenders received and the accounting situation of the works carried out from October 2005 and November 2005. As has actually happened in the structure of the carriageway and the upper structure, it will be possible to judge only after a thorough examination of the works performed, which is not possible at this point in time due to the weather conditions as is apparent. The Ministry of Transport will also obtain documentation from the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia on the quality control of the performance of works, including an expert opinion on the structure of the road structure, prepared by the Slovenian Construction Office and a bank guarantee to ensure the performance of the works. We'll bring both documents to your attention. With the first normalisation of the weather conditions, we will also organise a field tour of the road, on which we will also invite representatives of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads and Operators and Supervisory Services, all in order to determine how and with what results the modernisation of the road has actually been carried out. So, I hope that I have answered you in the framework of the powers I have as Minister of Transport, and I hope that we will resolve this problem in favour of the future of road construction, highways, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Zampernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Minister, especially for this last part of your answer. Because the answers you have read to me before, of course, I can read them myself. But first-class cynicism is that the officials who have prepared these answers are saying inside things that are unverified, that they don't. It's written in here at what prices the roads were built when this road was still a local road, of course, that's the power to disprove immediately. More cynicism is to write to me at the end of the letter: "because information was sent to us to provide photos of the status of works performed on the road route, we ask you politely if you can provide them to us for knowledge." Of course, I'm happy to do that to you. These pictures are happy to hand over to you or to your services to check if this is true, that this is taken precisely in the place that was built last October. But I can also arrange for them to go and make vortices with Actima, and I've already agreed with Mr. Mejak. And if you don't have any jobs to spin and check the lower structure, I'll be happy to do it. But I want to know the answers to the following questions: What will your actions be against the designer, the contractor and the supervisor who exercised control over these parts if it is found that they are their work, and this is evident from this, completely incorrect and not to say dilettane? And will you wait for the Court of Auditors' report, now in the spring time there will be water in here that will freeze at night, and then what will it be then in May, June? What will be the measures? And another question: Why was the contract in the documentation you really sent me signed for 31 million last year, despite the fact that 55 million were reserved in the 2005 budget for this item for this road? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. Zammernik. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u69	Thank you so much for the extra question. Very briefly. In any case, if errors were made at the professional level, at least what follows the building law, the licences were withdrawn, so in terms of the design for the area for which they participated, both designers and, of course, contractors will bear part of the responsibility, their responsibility, if anything was wrong in carrying out the project and investment documentation. This means that the cash guarantee for a good performance will be made available. The second question is why it was a lower value - I think this is useful. In fact, if a value of 55 million tolars was provided under the budget, 35 was awarded, then it was likely that the lower estimated value was the part envisaged under the project.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you, Minister. Dr Mitja Slavinec will ask the Minister for Home Affairs, Mr Matei. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary! The introduction of Slovenia into the European Union has, inter alia, facilitated border crossing procedures with the Member States of the European Union and this has had a significant impact on certain fixed routes, as for example, a large part of freight transport has shifted to the border crossing of the Long Village. As a result, traffic on the highway between Maribor and Lendava increased by more than three times and is already approaching the magic border of 100,000 stones per month. This excessive burden has also contributed to a critical deterioration in road safety, which has been added to some of the already completely destroyed roads. Unfortunately, this is also reflected in the number of accidents, especially those with the worst tragic outcome, and in recent years there have been between 1 and 5 fatalities in last year. In addition, non-compliance with traffic rules contributes to this. One of the worst cases is certainly documented driving through the red light in front of the elementary school in Beltinci, which poses the gravest threat to the safety of children and young people. Unfortunately, despite the frequent tightening of police controls, the situation is not improving, as some believe, also due to the inability of police officers to deal with language barriers and social barriers in their work, since most drivers of foreigners who do not even understand Slovenian or other foreign languages are also needed without adequate financial resources to travel and pay any fines. This, of course, must not be an excuse to reduce traffic safety, especially at the points as threatened as mentioned above. For this reason, Mr. Secretary, I ask you: What are you going to do to increase traffic safety on this road? Such a critical situation has certainly arisen, among other things, because of the speedier border formalities and the flow of the Long border crossing is no longer in line with the flow of the road, so I wonder: Will you reconcile the flow at the border crossing with what the road can safely take? I would also like to know: Did the police have an opportunity to further train themselves to work in specific situations and circumstances with foreigners, and I would also like to know how many fines and other measures were taken last year in the area of the motorway between Maribor and Lendava? [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] spoken to strangers, compared to everyone else, does this roughly correspond to the ratio on this road? [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you, Mr. Slavinz. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the question. In fact, some of these data are held by you. The flow of the Long Village border crossing has increased significantly with Slovenia's entry into the European Union. We note a significant loss of traffic across this border crossing, especially freight traffic, so that now virtually the main routes from Spain to Russia are going directly across Slovenia and so we have recorded over a million trucks at this border crossing last year, which means a good 30% increase compared to the year before. So on average on the G1 to 3, from Long Village to Maribor travels between 2 000 600 and 3,000 trucks a day. We listed the most burdened day last year in December, where we recorded 4,288 trucks moving along this road. Therefore, the main priority of the Murska Sobota police administration and, in part, Maribor's control over this road and the traffic flows that are taking place. In fact, this road is also heavily burdened by the daily migration of workers to larger centres in Prekmurje, as well as in Maribor and also against the center of Slovenia. With our procedures, we are trying to control this traffic as much as possible, so that we can ensure as much safety on this road as possible and that the lives of people until the highway is built will be as durable in this space as possible. I must say, this priority is very strong. Police officers are carrying out a very large number of measures in this area. However, I must also say that after completion of basic training for police officers, which lasts 18 months in the Republic of Slovenia after the previous completion of secondary school, additional education is provided for the purposes of working in transport safety, especially in these administrations. We also have special courses and training for police officers in communicating with people with emphasis on foreigners. There can really be certain language barriers here, as you can see for yourself, which we cannot completely remove. However, this must not be an obstacle to the implementation of all the procedures carried out by the police and also to the sanctioning of the offences that are taking place. If I give you some numbers you wanted to know. Traffic safety is actually relatively worrying on this part of the road. I must say that 5,368 infringements were found last year, of which more than 4,000 payment orders were issued, over 500 were dealt with in a rapid infringement procedure, over 500 were committed to the District Court, 18 were submitted to other criminal authorities whose jurisdiction is to solve certain offences. These offences, these 5,368 offences on this road, have committed 4,327 offenders. Thus, some violators have committed several different offences and have also been punished for them. Of this there are more than 2,500 Slovenian citizens, and a large part of the rest of this figure are violators who were associated with the speed measurement. In fact, the police are carrying out measurements without assistance, it is said, where only the radar detects too much speed and sends payment orders to the home. When we cannot ascertain the nationality of that person, we shall initiate procedures which are normal, through the Foreign Ministry and through the Ministry of Justice and through the data obtained from a third country, we shall send payment orders or whatever is necessary there. And that's how we punish these drivers. Freight vehicles, if taken only by trucks, were in breach of road traffic regulations 2.273 recorded last year and more than 1,000 cases were speeding exceeded. Of this, there were 606 violations of Slovenian citizens, and 1,400 were other foreigners for whom we have found out in one way or another which country they belong to, and they are the result of this measurement without assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u74	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Slavinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u75	The Slaver is my last name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u76	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u77	Just for the record, and I accept your apology. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your information, especially these figures. The first one about the number of trucks I definitely have, and I'm glad your data matches mine. I have them folded for a month, because then it's also on average some real picture yes. See, I was most curious: How do you plan to reconcile the flow of the road with that main cause, this is an increased flow at the border crossing? It is certainly a very simple proposal to reduce the number of police officers there and redirect them to the road. This will increase traffic safety, at the same time reduce the flow at the border crossing and consequently the number of trucks on these roads, as they will move slower across the border. Just one thing to think about. However, I am sure that you will find an even more effective and better solution for this number to be plagued and begin to decline, because the situation is indeed unsustainable. Another thing that's even more important. I'm curious, because this picture I gave you is certainly just one case where the kids at the green light are waiting to pass across the road, because trucks are driving through the red. How will you eliminate these critical points? Will you install any automatic control devices or anything else? Last but not least at the peaks and peaks, it is possible not only for the first week of the school year, but at critical points, police officers could always regulate traffic and thus at least take care of school safety and, as it were, at the most exposed points and cities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u78	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Thank you for that supplementary question. I was running out of time before, and I didn't answer those two things, so I didn't let them go on purpose. The flow of border traffic is very difficult to regulate in such a way as to stop border traffic. The problem facing us on this road is the construction of road infrastructure in Slovenia, which is much better than it has been in the past, and unfortunately not yet built all the legs of the highway to the Hungarian road. The roads have changed, and we can't stop them here. 3,000 vehicles a day at the border crossing would be very, very difficult and could cause some complications here. Here we will find a better solution when the road leg from Maribor to Long Village will be built and then we will be easier to regulate. Unfortunately, it is not that easy to move two police officers from the inside and thereby increase security. In fact, there are one or two lanes at the border where the trucks are moving. There may be some solutions here, and we'll have to find something here. With regard to the picture you sent me, of course, the picture is very, very worrying, and we will absolutely also be determined on this basis to increase the presence of police officers at precisely such critical points, but at the same time within the system we find - I have observed it with particular interest - by amending the road safety law adopted two years ago, the flashing lights have been removed in one article. Now the orange and red lights are lit without warning, and this also causes some drivers - not just the trucks and others - to drive into the orange and red lights. I am thinking so seriously when any changes to the road safety law are being prepared, if it makes sense to reintroduce a flashing green light that alerts the driver and causes a few seconds of delay and thus substantially stops traffic, but now there is no warning. You're all driving yourself, and you know exactly what kind of trouble we encounter from time to time. Another issue is: Of course, we will focus on these critical points and further strengthen the safety of schools, we will not ignore any other points that are important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you, Minister. Mr Dusan Kumer will raise a question of the matter before the Minister of Public Administration and the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In recent weeks, it has been possible to hear a lot of words about rationalisation and savings within the state administration in several areas, on the reduction of employees, and on the reduction of wage costs until the cost of mobile phones or mobile phones is reduced. However, as some facts and data show, one is speaking at press conferences, and quite another is specific figures and data. Indeed, the cost of work in the state administration is still increasing in some items excessively. Therefore, the point of talking about rationalisation, for example, in the field of employment in the public administration cannot be merely paper statistics on those who have left if at the same time funds for labour costs are increasing. And one such area that blurs out the real picture in this area is the hiring of external experts, institutions for the provision of certain services that government departments and employees are unable to perform, or, as government officials say, that it should be rationalisation and cheaper services than if they had employees. According to some data, there are several billion budget resources. Therefore, of course, the question arises in itself: Is this not also one of the substitutes for filling the gap of politically incompatible staff in the state administration and at the same time a good and favourable opportunity for foreign earnings - under the terms "our staff and institutions?" I therefore ask Minister Virant and Minister Bajuk: How many contracts have been concluded or concluded by the Ministry, the General Secretariat and the Government for the purposes of advice and professional assistance in 2005 and the beginning of this year? Please provide me with the totals of the above groups. Are they also employed in government among contractors or authors, and how many are there? Finally: Does the government have an overview of whether individual ministers, state secretaries, high government officials are at the same time external contractual co-workers of institutions that are contractors or authors in a contractual relationship with the State? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u83	Very briefly. Thank you so much for asking. Your Honor! The question you have asked is very demanding, as far as the answer is concerned. We got it there on Friday at 3:00 p.m., and I can assure you that the services were still working at the end of the week, and I don't have a definitive answer to your question. In any case, I can assure you that the resources we have done so far are only 11 ministries out of all but not yet the General Secretariat, and other institutions, various government services, which you are still demanding to be far below this sum, which you are talking about, that you have heard of being spoken of - several billion. Either way, it's smaller. I can only tell you about the Ministry of Finance, because I already checked it myself today, and we also need to clean this up, because the data we have is based on the Directorate of Accounting, and sometimes there is a mix of not only new contracts, but also those that have been concluded in the past and still have to be paid. This is said to be because accounting, you know, in a current sense, is led on the basis of payments rather than on the basis of when the business event was actually started. This will be subject to review. In any case, we will answer this very broad question within one week. As far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, so far we have found that we have only signed six contracts throughout the year for 39.5 million dollars, of which two could fall into this category, which you say are civil servants. It's actually an economic institute, not a law school, but an economic college institute. In fact, this is a work that the Ministry of Finance cannot do, but analytical models, which unfortunately is not yet available to the public administration to do so. But this is a very important thing that is linked to pension reform or to reviewing what is happening to us in this area. On the other hand, it is also the effects of the expected effects of certain changes in tax legislation, which are also part or subject to public debate. So, over the course of a week, we'll be able to report you more fully. We hope you'll be pleased with this, but for now, I can't do anything like what I've already said. Dr. Virant will answer the second part of your questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you. Mr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I'll take advantage of the rest of the time, and then if you ask any further questions, maybe you can continue. The figures will come from the Ministry of Finance, so I can only be responsible for my ministry for the numbers and the number of contracts. The Ministry of Public Administration is extremely restrictive or extremely rational when hiring external advisers for the preparation of legislation and other materials. We are preparing all the legislation ourselves with project groups, in which we usually include one or two external experts among several members of the project group coming from within, from the administration. So, let's say last year, on the basis of the contracts I signed during my ministry, the external advisors were paid a million 370 thousand dollars, which is, at first glance, less than the mill, much less than the mills, about a tenth of our budget, the Ministry of Public Administration. As for the second part of the question, whether it may be possible for government officials or even officials, ministers and State secretaries to receive fees from external contractors who are doing something for the administration, I must say that the government has already adopted a series of conclusions that are practically preventing it on 23 December 2004, a few weeks after its performance. These decisions relate to the implementation of training and education and also to contracts for the procurement of services, in this case intellectual services, where the operator must not involve the staff of the Authority in his work against the payment of the fee. Except in exceptional cases where the contracting authority expressly allows this if it is a job that does not belong in the field of employment of a public official. I don't know a case like this. I don't think they are. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, time's up. Mr. Kumer, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u87	I agree that this is a job requirement and I will wait a week, and I hope that then I will have a joint answer to my previous question, which also referred to the area of rationalisation and savings. But I was relying on a new information system that was supposed to be set up within a government that was promised last year to be better than the previous one, and I thought that just two of them were just sitting behind a computer and these things are being pulled together. So today I only heard a report from the two ministries that I asked the minister. I've made my own use, and what I can get is almost two billion. Thus, when I receive this report, I will also be able to ask questions about what Minister Virant replied: Are some high-ranking government officials, headed by ministers - for example, without a charter and so on - also related to any contractual obligations to certain institutions that perform contractual works for the country? But I have to say again that the thing reminds me of saving and rationalising last year's car stickers that were, so I always get to join in this saving and rationalisation. For three months we've been telling people how they're going to save a little less than 2,000 dollars in their own pocket, and now they can expect the end of the year to give them 10 times, 15 times more out of the pocket that will pay extra taxes on these same cars. And they'll also give it out of their own pocket. That is why, of course, I will insist, and I will ask you and the Minister further on the issue of rationalisation and savings.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u89	For a little while. I assure you that today you will surely get this, because this morning I signed a report concerning your question last month, which was also very difficult, I think you have all the tables on five pages - what you requested in the previous case. And this path I think will be faster because they've already started working in this area, I think you'll get within a week, at least that's how the jobs promised me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you. Mr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u91	First of all, I'm surprised that this debate about car stickers isn't over. I think that all of us who own motor vehicles know that the abolition of these stickers meant some benefit, some savings in time and money and that, I hope, is no longer disputed. Of course, I agree that rationalisation is necessary in all areas, which does not mean that rationalisation in the area of reducing the number of employees is not important or useful. I'll do it again. With regard to the participation of public servants in external contractors against the payment of the fee, the government has already adopted conclusions which have never been adopted before and which are very clear on these issues. I am firmly convinced that when we speak of ministers and secretaries of state, there is no such case that someone would be in a contractual relationship with an external contractor who would then return to work for the country. That would be totally unacceptable. When it comes to public servants, i.e. officials, these government decisions also prevent or limit this to some perhaps exceptional situations which I do not think are occurring in practice. However, we will check because I am also interested in how these conclusions are being implemented in practice. I'm sure the ministries respect them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you, Dr. Virant. Mr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u93	If there's anything else I can add. I would also like to remind you, although the final figures on the final account are not yet available, but we know, as far as wages are concerned, that the total amount is, what was the implementation of the budget in 2005 in current expenditure: salaries and other employee expenditure, which fell from 9.4% of GDP in 2004 to 9.2. But something's just happening in the area of savings! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u94	Mrs Maria Possonec will ask the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Milan Zver.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! I will ask the following question to the Minister for Education, Mr Beast. On the basis of amendments to the rules on parental payments for kindergarten programmes, most farmers will not be able to pay for kindergartens, so that farmers will literally be expelled from kindergartens. I wonder: How and on what basis did you come up with the formula on which the amount of the contribution of farmers’ parents depends? Because that's, let's just say, unrealistic. Without the drama, it looks like it. All those who live near the farm know that one hectare of land gives as much income as the land itself costs. On the basis of a regulation or a tax base, this is equal to 100,000 tolars of cadastral income. If the subsidy remains complete, it remains for a farmer who has 5 hectares of land, 350,000 tolls for the entire family for the whole year. You'll have to pay for shoes, clothes, food, chicken, electricity and so on. And now higher; cynicism from this peasant parent must pay for child protection the highest contribution of up to 80% of the economic price or more. All of this is unacceptable and very sad. I wonder: Why are farm children not eligible for kindergarten subsidies? Is this how the country intends to increase birthrates? Is this the social policy that the state offers to young farmers to have more children? In this way, farmers' children will not have the basis for successful integration into the educational system and will be, as a matter of course, just for shepherds - and without me thinking that shepherding is less worthy of employment, but would like to be something else. Where is the constitutional right of equal opportunities in education, and where is the child's right to the future? This is not a question of the mission question, it is a cry for help to peasant children who have the same place under the sun as other children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Poxon. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President, thank you very much for the question, Madam Members. This formula you're talking about sets out the rules. The Regulation and the last amendment of the Rules of Procedure were agreed with the municipalities or with both associations of municipalities, namely the Municipality of Slovenia and the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, and was therefore initiated by municipalities which found that the individual categories of investors were inadequately burdened with such payments. The fact is, in determining the doses, i.e. the payments of kindergartens, all scissors and canvas in their own hands, they can determine on the basis of income and property. Article 32 of the Kindergarten Act also allows them to make a substantive decision insofar as they find that the situation in the family is such and can then proportionally reduce that payment. In short, this new regulation has indeed made a problem in the public eye, and in fact the Ministry is studying the situation on the ground, the new situation on the basis of the amendment of this Regulation, and we find the following. In the 60 municipalities, which included some 13,600 children or investors, they complained about the price of 250, of which only 125 for new designations, other reasons remained. That means, just in this sample, there are less than 0.8% of all in this population. And out of 54,000 preschool children, there are only three cases when parents have released children from preschool. Thus, this claim that children, in particular farm children, have been denied the right to preschool education, is not true. We continue to monitor the effects of this Regulation, try to obtain information from all municipalities and have not closed the possibility of further discussions. On the contrary, we find ways to facilitate access by some children, especially those on the outskirts of social life, and many rural children are. I'm home from an environment like this, too, and I know this situation, not just you or anyone else. Believe me, our goal is indeed to make children as accessible as possible to preschool education. To this end, we also intend to amend the system legislation in order to allow for cooperation, including children as much as possible. We are also looking for options for partial inclusion of children, let us not say all day long, we would like the inclusion to be greater, we certainly do not want exclusion as mentioned in the question. So when we analyze the entire situation, we and the municipalities will decide whether to change the rules where this criterion of 500,000 cadastral income could be changed, or whether we will make some joint recommendations to the municipalities when designing a price list for these preschool services. So we don't rule out any of them, on the contrary, the goal is that paying kindergartens is as fair as possible. It's a crime if someone's forgiven and they can pay, and the other one's hard to pay, and he's got to pay.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you, Minister. An additional question from Ambassador Pozsonchev, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, explain to me that the farmer who has 5 hectares has 500,000 cadastral income. How can he pay an abnormally high price for kindergarten? Since someone has 500,000 SIT, they already pay over 80%, and 80% there is about 60,000 a month. Yeah, what kind of studies do you need to calculate that out of 500,000 you can't pay, I don't know what kind of sum? I don't think anyone can say that. If you multiply by 12, 80,000 or 60,000 or 70,000, it'll be over 500,000! And farmers have to live on it. So you can't live on 5 acres. And even then, to pay overtime for kindergarten, that's not possible. And that explains that they're going to study it - there's nothing to study here!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u100	Thank you for the supplementary question. Minister Beast, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you for the opportunity to answer this additional question. Look, we can't make any decisions about this rule. I think it is right for us to examine carefully the consequences of this novel, to receive complaints, to examine individually whether or not the injustice has actually occurred, and only on this basis can we make a real decision later. I think that this novel has not brought injustice; on the contrary, the system of payments is now much more just. As I said before, we don't close the doors. We will explore whether this ceiling can be raised, find a common solution, in particular those groups of children, including rural children who have had more difficult access to preschool services, I wish they were more involved. And certainly too high a price for them is not a factor of positive influence, so you can trust me to be subtle in solving this problem. In Slovenia, preschool service is too weak in terms of demand. The public sector simply cannot provide all the needs, we have a series of grey foxes in a country where too many children are waiting for preschool education and therefore we are ahead of key decisions on how to enable all children - or all those who want to give children preschool education - to this type of service. That is why we will be solving this problem in the coming years. Slovenia’s goal is that the inclusion of preschool children in kindergartens is comparable to that of Europe, there is close to 80%, we have exceeded 60%, but in Europe they include or add to these part-day programmes not only full-day inclusion, but also partly, so that they can only bring a child into kindergarten for a few hours per day and already consider it an inclusion. We also need to provide such an offer, and I am convinced that if we do this to make the inclusion of children more involved in pre-school institutions, price formation is only one of the factors affecting this inclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u102	Minister, thank you.The next on the list applied to raise the oral question is mag. Borut Saiovic, referring to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mrs Marija Lukačič. Here you go, Comrade Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister and to the Council of Ministers and, of course, also to Members and Members. Slovenia has been prepared to fight the bird flu, it has been known and a dry piarian message last week, but who knows that avian influenza is lucky for us so far mainly and only wild waterbird disease and knows what it can follow, of course it does not express itself and does not behave that way. You know, in the dry weather, a torn umbrella is sufficient, but when it rains and pours heavily, then a few chapels always go where they don't want to go and where they don't belong. And therefore, Madam Minister, I would like to ask: Is the Government preparing any additional measures, particularly to prevent or mitigate economic damage due to the occurrence of avian influenza? Some of the actions and statements and the answers to them raise even more questions. I think that, in those crucial moments of communication with the public, they should be included on their own and in person, just as more private veterinarians, concessionaires, should be included in this battle, especially because they know the disease and operationally better, especially because they know the terrain better. And I also wonder: Is there enough protective clothing, masks, disinfection equipment available in our country right now? And this: Does it seem reasonable to me, but what do you think? Would it not make sense to distribute some of these clothes to breeders in endangered areas where there is plenty of waterfowl? And the following question: Do you think the system of collecting naturally dead sparrows and bruises, which of course are not analysed on the presence of the virus with large means of transport and costs appropriate? And: Is this service part of the increased demand for their services? And in order for the measures to be effective, we must have sufficient and sufficient money for them in particular. How much funding has the Republic of Slovenia already spent to implement the measures so far to combat the spread of avian influenza and how much resources are still available for this purpose in this year's national budget? Above all, as I know, the budget, although the threat of this disease has been present for a long time, does not contain dedicated items for the payment of measures, such as firefighters, veterinary inspectors, hygiene and private veterinary concessionaires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you, Comrade Saiovic. Minister, please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, thank you for the question, honourable Member. The question concerns the mitigation of economic damage in the event of avian influenza in domestic poultry. Let me recall that the direct damage caused by the implementation of certain disease control measures in domestic poultry is settled in accordance with the rules on animal health compensation, but that there is little possibility in national legislation to mitigate indirect damage related to the loss of income to poultry farmers and the food processing industry. That is why, last week, in the Council of Ministers in Brussels, I proposed the adoption or adoption of certain measures relating to the introduction of compensation payments for the loss of income from poultry breeders and the food processing industry for the implementation of the measures prescribed by the veterinary administration. I have also proposed extending export refunds to countries outside the European Union, in particular to countries in the Balkans where our poultry industry exports almost half of its exports, and I have proposed a third measure - financing an information campaign for the consumption of heat-treated poultry meat suitable for human consumption. I must say that he has information that we will already be considering these proposals in the world of ministers in March. You've warned me about panic prevention. I must point out that since last autumn, competent services have been informing citizens and especially breeders about the occurrence and spread of disease in wild birds. Citizens are well informed, but so far the virus has not been transmitted from wild birds to humans, but the transmission of disease from domestic poultry to humans has occurred where humans were directly in contact with poultry. In addition to government services, some NGOs, such as the Veterinary Chamber and the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia, have also been involved in informing citizens. Real media reporting prevents panic among citizens, but it is not, according to surveys of some newspapers. You are cautioned about the involvement of private veterinarians. Veterinary services have already been successful in implementing measures to prevent the spread of avian influenza in Slovenia. This is how they will participate in the future. The National Veterinary Institute, together with VURS, is preparing a vaccination plan for poultry and birds into captivity and risk assessment by assessing the cost of vaccination. You're asking about available equipment. At the moment, veterinary services have sufficient protective equipment and disinfection, both for daily use and possible outbreaks of disease in domestic poultry. The work of VHS. Due to the increased volume of work and the requirements of the public after the immediate removal of each dead bird, private veterinarians have also joined the service so that no large truck is taken away by any dead bird. The country coverage network with VHS remained within the planned framework. As for feeding the swans. From the previous week, they continue to feed swans in certain places of ornithologists. Ornithologists warn that the biological cycle of swans is approaching as they leave Slovenia virtually within about 14 days, for three weeks, and move to the northeast of Europe. At that time, we're just taking care of feeding the swans so they won't be looking for food in different backyards. As regards imports and exports of poultry, I must say that we are in direct contact with the veterinary administrations of the countries of the former Yugoslavia, we are in contact and are informing them of the occurrence of the disease as well as of the measures taken by the European Union. These countries are considering implementing the same measures as the Member States of the European Union, which means allowing imports of poultrymeat from countries with avian influenza in other birds. Let me remind you that this morning we reached an agreement on the smooth flow of meat and eggs with the Republic of Croatia, where Peru's Ptuj trades most. You're asking about the funds. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u106	Please, if you finish. You've been out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u107	So far, VURS has spent 40 million tolars. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u108	Madam Secretary, the machine has turned you off. As you probably know, the well-respected government council present today, after 15 seconds, when you're out of time, regardless of my warnings, shut you down, so I ask you to comply with the rules agreed upon so far. However, the Magi applied for an additional question. Saivitz. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Avian influenza is such a serious problem that even the best measures are never and never sufficient and complete. This is an area and a problem where you sometimes have to look for hair in the egg, so you are well-intentioned and as an initiative I ask the following questions. Do we have, and why not, a list of over 47,000 households that regulate poultry in Slovenia? Do we have, and why not, a list and control of water surfaces where endangered waterbirds are kept? Are they systematically controlled by ornithologists, fishermen, hunters, and naturalists? Don't you think it would be better to shoot over 100 bears, humanely remove some of the exhausted, hungry, cold, nourished waterbirds that can be the source of infection and transmission for domestic poultry and humans as well? Could it not be better than firefighters to send well-equipped and trained special forces that the Slovenian army has to fight against biological weapons? I think in this area, special, well-equipped and trained soldiers would do more good for Slovenia than in Iraq. How do we take action in the case of many birds in, say, Ljubljana's zoo? And what seems most important in this story is communication and cooperation with the public. Have we prepared and prepared any instructions, a brochure for poultry breeders and other citizens? Thus, the booklet, the booklet, the brochure describing the problem, explains, indicates solutions and ultimately, which is most important for all citizens and citizens, shows people that their safety depends primarily on their own protection and behaviour.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u110	Thank you for the supplementary question. Minister Maria Lukačič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u111	As regards the list of poultry breeders, it is known and prepared in individual threatened or infected areas under a pre-specified programme. With regard to the killing of sick swans, it is our job to prevent domestic feathers from contacting infected wild birds. Of course, it is the matter of ornithologists whether they will allow the execution of individual swans, who are found to have been ill or sick, to be known for their actions. In the event that it is not known whether they are infected or not, it is a measure to try to prevent any contact of domestic poultry or feathered birds with these birds. About public information. The Veterinary Administration informed the Slovenian public daily about its findings, the prescribed measures, the occurrence of the disease on Slovenian soil. I've been involved in these actions myself. However, I did not specifically carry out press conferences at the Ministry of Agriculture, because I by decision appointed a national disease control centre, which also has a work programme to keep the public informed of my findings. If there is, if there is, a transfer of the disease to domestic poultry, this notification will, of course, be daily and ongoing by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u112	Thanks for the answer. The next oral question will be raised by Member Boštjan Zagorac, as was said at the beginning of the meeting, today there is no Dr Dimitri Rupl's Minister for Foreign Affairs, so I ask Ambassador Zagorac whether he will still raise the oral question. Of course, we'll deliver the tape to the minister and his answer to you. So I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u113	Of course, I will raise the question of the Member, and of course I also expect the Minister to have an oral answer, if possible, and not a written one, because the paper is very much tolerable. I must say that I am very sorry that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is not among us today, because I am very interested in: What is his position and the position of this government towards the last things that have happened or to the last incidents that he has caused on the Austrian Koro side of the country, Master Jörg Haider? I find it unacceptable, as well as my colleagues from the Slovenian National Party, that a political representative of the European State is in any way carrying out Nazi terror over the Slovenian minority in the Republic of Austria. Otherwise, as far as I call it Nazi terror, I cannot name text messages for which it is evident that they came directly from his client and the movement of tables that should be replaced by Slovenian inscriptions. Last but not least, I am interested in the government: what measures does it provide for, given that one of the senior political representatives in the Republic of Austria has violated the Austrian State Treaty, which we know to be an international act? He violated not only all five paragraphs but the fifth and I will quote him to the government, given that her apathy was such that I believe she failed to find her herself. The activities of organisations that aim to deprive the Croatian or Slovenian population of its character and rights as minorities must be prohibited. I therefore rightly expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to require a measure from international institutions, which the Austrian State Treaty also foresees, which is therefore a ban on the operation of such organisations, even though they are political, spreading or violating the rights of individual minorities in a particular area. I must say, there is a very worrying lack of response from the government. Last but not least, as you probably know, those representatives of the government who are still sitting here, the High Commissioner of Korea also asked for an apology by the government on my behalf, which, thank God, we have not waited in this country for the government to apologize on behalf of the Member. Nor do we expect the government to apologize in any way, but I expect it to request an apology from the Austrian side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u114	Thank you for the question. As previously said, I believe that you will receive an answer in one form or another no later than the next meeting of the National Assembly. We continue on the basis of the list reported, 17th Member Martič Mikolič, who will raise the question of the Member of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Master Janez Drobnič. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your kind greetings, ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The 15th year has been running since we have been living in the independent country of Slovenia and almost as long have been alerted by retired Slovenian citizens who have been employed in other republics of the former SFRJ to the unresolved problem of their pensions. The majority of these pensioners who now live along the border with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia were employed by the former SFRJ in the Republic of Croatia. Only in the municipality of Rogatec and the municipality of Rogaška Slatina are these pensioners about 300. Their pensions are lower than comparable Slovenian pensions, and they do not receive any allowances that are eligible for pensioners who have worked in the Republic of Slovenia. Even though the former authorities had promised to solve the problem by law, they failed to do so. I ask: Will your ministry finally come up with an appropriate solution? Let me say that in 1992 there were about 4 thousand 200 such cases in Slovenia, and today these pensioners are just a few more than 1300. This means that it is too late for many today, so it is high time for the problem to be resolved immediately. This will at least partially repair the culprit to the remaining, still living pensioners. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you. May I have your answer, Minister Petty Officer?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much for this oral question, but I must point out that a number of written questions have been raised in recent times on how to provide decent pensions to Slovenian citizens who have worked in neighbouring republics. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has prepared a more detailed issue, measures and activities in the area of pension and disability insurance, as regards the receipt of pensions from our citizens who have established this pension in other republics of the former Yugoslavia. The information was also addressed by the Economic College of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and also accepted the proposals of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in order to address this issue by amending the legislation. Although the situation of receiving pensions has changed significantly, the pensions received by Slovenian citizens from the Republic of Croatia have gradually increased much faster over the last six years than Slovenian pensions. Croatia abolished most of the pension allowances and thus obtained additional pension funds, so that in 1992 the beneficiary received an allowance of more than 50% of the pension, in which case the allowance was reduced to only slightly less than 30%. In view of this problem, we have prepared an amendment to the law on pension and disability insurance at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. We were aware that it is most efficient and consistent to include this issue for this basic law on pension and disability insurance. These new changes have already been addressed by the Economic Social Council on Friday. For we have prepared the law and it is relatively fast, in the 14 days - this change. It also speaks of, of course, changes in pension plans to ensure the reliability of pensions in specific funds. In short, in a novel that is now ready and in inter-resortmental coordination, coordination with the social partners has already been prepared, these changes are prepared to realize the wishes and fair rights of those citizens who have earned their pension in other republics. Of course, the novel will first be adopted by the government, which will be adopted within a week or a few days on the basis of harmonisation between the departments. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u118	Thanks for the answer. A wish for a follow-up question? It's not. Then we continue to ask questions. The following on the list of applicants is Vice-President Marko Pavliha, who will raise his question to the Minister of Education and Sport, Dr Milan Zver. Please, my friend Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Comrade Vice President. Minister, both ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I am very moved to ask the Minister for Education and Sport why Slovenian athletes and athletes did not achieve any collages at the Olympics, but this would even be too much for the opposition MP and the minister cannot be responsible for everything. But I'll tell you what. Slovenia should be a school example of a country whose future should be based on its, so to speak, privileged maritime position. It was never clear to me why we chose a slogan 15 years ago that we are "on the sunny side of the Alps", because we are one of the few countries that have a sea in our backs and on the flag and we are on the sea side of Triglav, and we do not know how to take advantage of that. But I'm saying this because the Coastal Coast is too neglected and forgotten, especially in the last year. Let me mention just a few examples: I asked the written question why the forgotten idea of building a home for the elderly and then two regions instead of three, the second track on the side track, Luka Koper, and today it is the turn of the secondary school in Koper. In November 2005, the councillors and councillors of the municipal council of the Municipality of Koper raised a number of questions about the secondary schools of Cyprus. On 12 December 2005, the Office for Social Activities and Development at the Municipality of Koper asked the Minister of Education and Sport for written answers on these questions. Well, and 16.2.2006 is held the 34th meeting of the City Council, to which saints and saints have not yet received answers to the following questions. First time. They are interested in and interested in me: Will the premises for the Koper Technical School begin to be regulated in Cyprus in the following year, or when is the start of the project envisaged? Another time. Over the next four years, is the regulation and rejuvenation of the Koper High School of Economic and Business, which is one of the rare secondary schools in Slovenia with a two-track course? And third time, last time. Are there any investments in facilities dedicated to secondary schools in the Municipality of Koper for the next four years? On behalf of the city council, Koper, and even in hers, thank you very much for the good news.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u120	Dr. Pavliha, thank you for your question and the answer to all three undertones we expect from Minister Beast. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u121	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member and Vice-President of the National Assembly! Thank you for asking. If I started with that first one about the medals. The medals are not all, they are some highlight of sports achievements, especially in the Olympics. Our representatives and representatives have also achieved some other more visible achievements and have also been impressed with their rankings and performances, we can say. Two sixths of town, Košir, Majičeva, 7th city of Flanders, 8th city of Majičeva, 9th city of Ana Drew and so on were the top results in the world scale. It is right that we are trying to be at least quite resilient to athletes in these assessments. I'm not talking to you here. I'm talking to you in general. Of course, some who decide on sports life will also give an expert assessment of whether these results are appropriate in terms of the stake or not. Now for the answers to your questions. We are working, indeed, last year, as well as in the budget documents for this year and for the following year, to increase investment in secondary school space. The state is the founder of the secondary school network and we are also trying to regulate more. It is known that we recently had a good day-long visit in Maribor, where we presented a rational, economical, efficient model of the secondary school network in Maribor. We are beginning to design a concept and also prepare for a spatial conference in Ljubljana, because we will also organize such a complex in Ljubljana and quickly regulate the network of schools in the capital. However, we want something similar in other major cities. I'm sure it's Koper's. As you know, activities started at the Central Technical School in Cyprus in 2004. At that time, the first call for lease was for leasing, i.e. the procurement procedure for financial leases with a gradual buy-in. It was called the project. Redesignation of the former Tomos location for the relocation of the Koper High Technical School. The procedure for this order is still in progress. We expect it to be completed within the next month, perhaps within two weeks, which means that if the contract is successfully completed, we will be able to transfer the facility to office in August 2008. The answer to the second question is this: Koper High School of Economic and Business is not included in the Basic Development Plans Act, which is now in force, and this project will have to wait for the next call, which I believe will involve the Municipality of Koper. Of course, the Ministry continues to provide maintenance work, i.e. investing in it, also obtaining money or funds from deregulation of investment maintenance parts of the school. In addition to what I have said, except for the secondary technical school and investment maintenance funds, in the next four years the state - or so I must say in the next two years, the state will not finance other projects. However, we anticipate that they will apply to this in the framework of the new tendering school, so I cannot say right now what it will be like in the next four years, but I can only speak for the 2006 and 2007 budget periods, and we do not anticipate any greater investment in Cyprus in this period except for what I have mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u122	Thanks for the answer. Complementary question. Dr. Pavlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Comrade Vice President. Complementary response. That "Olympic" at the beginning was, of course, more of a joke than indeed, I agree with you. I myself believe significantly more in cooperation than in competition and take advantage of the opportunity for sincere congratulations to our athletes and athletes. With regard to the supplementation of your answer, however, I will be satisfied with your promise to send a wider reply to the city congregation and perhaps even to visit them for a conversation, and there are clearly some reasons for optimism based on your answer. So I thank you and ask for this supplement to the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u124	Minister Beast, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u125	Thank you. Just a sentence. A written answer will come, including to the city council. My visit is also planned, even though I was already in the township of Koper. And last week, they were in the field, if I may say so, also my investment boss and the state secretary who looked at the locations, so some preparatory work is still going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u126	Thank you, both of you, and allow me to give you a second thought. And I just think that the kneecaps on the game count something. And we continue with the 19th reported on the list, mag. Majdo Potrat, who will raise the question of the delegation to Minister Gregor Virant, Minister of Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u127	Thank you. Madam Minister, distinguished ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Dear Minister, Dr Virant, you are the head of the Ministry of Public Administration, for which it was stated in the coalition contract that the coalition wants to provide a more rational organisation in this area, greater synergy and better exploitation of human and financial resources, while stressing that it is aware that good public governance is one of the foundations of sustainable development. By your activity, Mr. Minister, you are also reaching wider into the public sector, not only in the area of state administration, when it comes to the payment system and some other systemic solutions, so allow me to form my own question from this staff work, so I have announced. There has been quite some controversy in the public as to whether a reduction of employees in the public administration and the public sector has been announced is indeed what it shows to be, but I will not ask you this question. But I'd like to ask you something else. Indeed, it is also stated in the Coalition Treaty that the number of employees in the civil part of the state administration should be reduced by at least 3% over a four-year period. The question, however, is that, by reducing the number of employees who are not merely assigned to a natural outflow to a pension, there is a legitimate concern that employment may sometimes be linked to such interventions or measures that do not increase or strengthen the sense of safety among employees. Last but not least, you have written in the coalition contract that employment will be based on skills and competences, which the coalition will pay particular attention to, and that the coalition will simplify disciplinary procedures and insolvency procedures and in this regard align the position of public administration staff with that of employees in the economy. Although there are no established occupational diseases, there are some signs that the fluctuation is noticeable. So I ask you: Has the fluctuation increased significantly in 2005 compared to 2003? What is the number of fixed-term jobs and how many new jobs are there with those who are the first job seekers? What is more, how do all these measures affect the quality of work, the burden, the satisfaction and performance of employees, the increased absence of work due to the disease associated with overload? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u128	The answer will be given by the Minister of Public Administration, Dr. Gregor Virant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Your Honor. Rationalisation of public administration is one of the government's priorities and reducing the number of employees in the state administration is one of the measures for this rationalisation. As Minister of Public Administration, I am talking about reducing employees in the public administration, but not in other parts of the public sector, i.e. education, health care, culture and so on, and not in the municipalities, because we know that employment in the municipalities depends on the mayors' decisions, so we have local self-government and the mayors are directly responsible to the electorate. Indeed, there was a slight decrease in the number of employees in the state administration in 2005, down from the Slovenian Army, which is professionalised according to its plan, a comparison of the situation on 31.12.2004 and 2005 shows a reduction of 90 employees, which is, of course, a significant difference compared to an increase of some 100 in previous years. However, I would not talk about the wider public sector, even though the government has accepted the starting points in this area and if there is then a further time, I will also say something about it. I'm sure the state administration, the state administration, is the most under attack right now. I have understood your question, or the essence of this question, how these measures of rationalisation affect quality, burdens, the satisfaction of employees and the absence of hospitals. Maybe some data on fluctuation first. I can serve with information on the number of departures, the first, the number of employees who have left the state administration in recent years. In 2003, the working relationship ended in 1278, in 2004 in 1926 and in 2005 in 1715, which means that the fluctuation that this is leaving in 2005 was below the 2004 level but above the 2003 level. It's not about any drastic changes. So 1978, 1926, and 1715 in 2005. As regards the number of fixed-term employees, the number of employees per year was as follows: on 31.12.2002, 1696, the following year, 1369, that is less, in 2004 1780, more, in 2005 1177, but this data is not fully comparable because this year, at the end of the year, there were no employees for a certain period of time for candidates for police officers. If this figure were to be added, this figure usually ranges from 250 to 400, the number of employees would be approximately the same for a certain period of time. As far as employee satisfaction is concerned, it is not measured everywhere in government, and we measure it in many ways. For example, we measure it in administrative units, where the satisfaction of employees is also one of the criteria for assessing the performance of the chiefs, and here we are shown the results - perhaps even the best indicator is the rate, the proportion of those who are proud of their employment in the administrative unit. In 2003, 69.6%, in 2004, 69.2%, was slightly lower and 78.09% in 2005. Thus, the satisfaction of employees in administrative units has increased, although administrative units have reduced the number of employees, both in 2004 and 2005. With regard to obsentesm or absenteeism, I would ask you if you would wait for the 2005 staff report, where we will also be able to determine, or report in general, what proportions of obsentiism were, how many hours were lost on the basis of the absence of patients. This information was not included in the 2004 and back reports. We have now decided to include this information. Now the general answer to your question, what does this pressure mean for quality and burden? As for quality, we try to improve it. I will serve again from the administrative units, where customer satisfaction with services rose in 2005 and ranges from 3.59 to 4.68, which is the lowest and highest rating. In 2004, when it was between 3.55 and 4.67, it was said that the quality had risen. In administrative units, for example, some additional services are offered [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , which was not previously, like, certified signatures, extracts from the land book and so on, it is said [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u130	Please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u131	new quality with fewer employees. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you. Complementary question, mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u133	Thank you. What you've just told me in some way refers to what I said was that your authority is wider. And this is when we talk about salaries in the public sector. In the coalition contract, you also promised that a model would be developed in the public administration to enable the performance of individual administrative authorities to be measured. I see you've arranged this for the administration. There are measures or criteria: planning and monitoring of results, customer relations, customer satisfaction, openness, transparency, employee management, employee satisfaction and management of business processes. I refer to this because I do not know whether or not a specific rule for the performance of directors of public institutions will enter into force on 1 March. I also do not know whether I have the appropriate version of this Regulation in my hands, but when I looked at three items to determine the performance of the leaders, I cannot say that at least in that part I would see very clear criteria that would measure exactly the satisfaction of the customers with the services performed, but I was careful that in at least two elements this relates to the reduction of the number of employees. In fact, the criteria that speak of the human resources plan are very unclear and you don't know if it's a reduction or not. It is particularly surprising, however, that the highest performance is if the number of employees is reduced by more than 1 and a half percent. The specifics of the areas are different. However, the reduction of employees may not be the only criteria or the most important criteria for awarding performance. Perhaps they would also say something further in the reply. Otherwise, if you can also provide me with a written answer when you have the information gathered, you provide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you. Minister Virant will give an additional reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u135	When a human resources report is prepared, we will publish it on our website, but we will also send it to you in particular. This regulation, which you are talking about, is still in the stage of cross-cutting coordination and I fully agree with you that reducing the number of employees cannot be a key criterion for the performance of the Director and we will also withdraw this criterion. I myself believe that it is necessary to leave it up to the Ministers in charge of their field, health, education, culture, social and public administration to set the criteria for the performance of directors in their field. As far as the public administration is concerned, we will draw from the model established for the administrative units, at least in the part of the administration where the service is customer-driven and where you have already found it, it is approximately so that we measure efficiency, productivity, it is said how much the administrative unit does per unit of work, where individual services are weighted, the driving licence is worth so much more, the denationalisation decision is so much more, the satisfaction of the customers, which is regularly measured according to the specific methodology that we have designed, the satisfaction of the employees and also the integration of the chief in the project teams at national level. So something similar will apply to the public administration more broadly. However, for the rest of the public sector, as we say, I fully agree with you that health care has its specifics, education its own, culture its own and social and that it is right that every minister specifically prescribes this. Maybe I'd just say what I was running out of time for. What your question suggests is largely true. The burdens, the burden on the public administration, therefore, in this segment, which is most under pressure to reduce the number of employees, are increasing, that is a fact. The problem is still an uneven burden and structural problem, which means that we have people who are doing worse and, on the other hand, we have a great need to hire a certain number of quality experts. So how do fewer people do more? The answer is basically one. With better use of human resources, better organisation of work and elimination of unnecessary tasks. So far, we've been shrinking through voluntary retirement, other jobs, and so on. With the new year, the Law on Public Servants gives us other options, and here, the leaders and all managers will also have to take advantage of this option with the help of our Ministry. [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And we'll try to take advantage of them. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thanks for the answer. I continue to draw up a list of the Member(s) who have been asked questions. The following question will be raised by Member Geza Juban, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Minister, colleagues, colleagues! I am asking the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food about the functioning of the Agency for Agricultural Markets, the submission of applications, the issuing of decisions and, of course, on their basis, the payment of eligible funds to the beneficiaries. One of these is early retirement as an important agricultural policy measure that improves the age structure of farmers. Unfortunately, potential beneficiaries point to the difficulties they face in the procedures of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development, which implements the early retirement measure. Potential beneficiaries mention as the biggest problem the fact that the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development is often late or not issuing decisions and that it does not, as a rule, respond to complaints filed on the basis of negative decisions. I therefore wonder, Madam Minister, what is the average time from filing an application to the decision of the Special Commission and the time from filing an application to the beginning of the payment of the pension to those investors who have been granted a pension by the Commission? How many investors have met all the required conditions and not yet received pensions and how many applications have been submitted since the start of the implementation of the measure? In short, what will the Ministry do to enable the Agency to decide on the roles within a reasonable and legal time frame and to reduce administrative errors that are also taking place in the processing of applications? The second part of the question concerns the issue of taxation of agricultural policy measures payments in 2005-2007. Indeed, it is not uncommon for beneficiaries, even though decisions were issued in 2005, direct payments have still not been paid. In view of the fact that revenue from the 2005 measures is tax based on 25% and then more each year, such beneficiaries are in a special or damaged situation. Question: What does the Ministry of Agriculture intend to do in this case to resolve this issue? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u138	Thank you for asking me this question. Minister Marija Lukačič will also respond. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you for the question, honourable Member. This is an early retirement measure, which is an important measure, as it accelerates structural changes in the age structure of farmers. It is known that the average age of the Slovenian farmer is 56 years and that the technological renovation of the farm requires young, educated and working staff, so the country is interested in the maximum possible integration of Slovenian farms into this measure. Let me illustrate how many individual farms have been included in each year in this measure and how many have been positively resolved. In 2004 it ran for this measure in 1999 of Slovenian farms, all applications have been resolved, of which 184 have been positively resolved, a decision has been issued, a three-partite contract for the payment of the rent has been concluded. Nine decisions or applications were rejected by a decision, and six were rejected because of an incomplete application. We pay monthly rents of 23 million tolars and total in 2004 amounted to 301 million 815 thousand tolars. Early retirement action in 2005: the number of applications is 111, all controlled and to the fullness of the application. However, given that the invitation to tender lasted until 31 December 2005 and that the applications are being resolved in a complete manner, this moment is all reviewed and the decisions will be issued within the next two or three months. The reason why applications are not resolved during the current year is that the tendering deadline is until 31 December of the current year and that these applications are then addressed in the following year. Your second question, where you point out the issue of 2005 decisions and the non-implementation of payments, is that it is in line with the European legal order for the payment of subsidies between 1 December and 30 July of the following year. This is the period within which the State must issue its decisions and pay its subsidies. For 2005, we issued 37,000 decisions in December and also provided funds for the payment of these subsidies. This means that we will issue approximately 23,000 decisions this year and that we will also pay these subsidies by 30 June at the latest. As regards your warnings about the unequal situation due to the Income Act, in principle, the law is such that in the first year of implementation the law is based on a tax base of 25% of the value of the subsidy, in the following year 50%, in the third year 75% and then 100%. In view of the European acquis allowing for the payment of subsidies for the current year in two years, it is inevitable that they are taxed differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u140	Thank you. On the basis of the list of applicants, I give the floor to Mr Srečko Friend, who will address his question to the Minister of Transport. I would point out, however, that at the opening of today's meeting, the Minister announced that he would leave the meeting of the State Assembly in the afternoon due to his participation or the meeting of transport ministers in Trieste. In addition, I should like to point out that the Minister also expressed his wish, just before the time of time, to be on a schedule or earlier in order to be responsible, but unfortunately this cannot be done on the basis of our Rules of Procedure. My friend Lucky Friend, I'm asking you, you'll ask an oral question and you'll get an answer to it later. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u141	Sure. Thank you very much, Prime Minister, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to ask the following questions from the Minister of Transport, given that a meeting of the mixed commissions on the start of the Intereg 3a project was held in Rome on Thursday 16 February. We know that this project gives priority to the railway connection, Trst - Ljubljana - Budapest. What does this mean for the project to build the second track of Koper - Divac? It is known that 100,000 tons of cargo are lost monthly and that, in fact, if we also take a multi-applicative factor for the development of the economy in Slovenia, this means considerable economic damage for Slovenia. Of course, it is unreasonable to have this fact tested, repeatedly called on the government to release the 5.5 million euros that have been in Brussels since 2004 and to begin with the construction of the second track, because it is not understandable to confirm the location plan, the construction plan, and the project itself postponement in 2008, but at the same time to request a postponement period for the use of these funds. By the end of 2006, they will have run out of this deadline. What does the government intend to do? Is he serious about solving the rail transport problem by building a second track only in 2008, by building a second track of Koper-Divic? Last thing I want to know is, wouldn't it be more careful if the minister wasn't just looking at the road? After all, we have earmarked €1 billion for guarantees or allowed these loans to be leased, and it would be a prudent half for railways, half for roads and two projects at the same time. That's what I want to ask him. I hope that today he is truly officially detained, because these are serious problems with the fact that the existing route is already very dangerous and there can be other disasters and also mortality on our roads is very high, thus further burdening the transport routes. I would like us to express ourselves positively also to environmental security and, of course, to economic development. In this context, I look forward to the answers and I hope that this will be given to me orally at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u142	Thank you. In accordance with the above, the Minister will give you an answer in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. To raise the question, I invite Member Sam Bevek to ask a question addressed to Janez Podobnik, Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In 2004, I proposed to supplement the law on the prevention of the consequences of mining in the Silver Mine of Idria. The Act provides in Article 1 that it is necessary to protect the environment directly above the mine and thus protect the city of Idrija from the possession and other consequences that are reflected in the mining damage and health of former miners due to long-standing mining, and to remedy these consequences and to provide funds for comprehensive recovery. When the underground mine is finally closed, probably within two to three years, the activity of the mine and the company must be transformed by law, also for the maintenance of the un watered mine, monitoring and maintenance of the museum part of the mine. Last year, the European Commission adopted a strategy for the management of mercury, where the Ministry of Environment and Space, which you personally run, was also very involved. In Idria, we greatly appreciate your efforts to comprehensively remedy the consequences of mining, and we also expect that from the government and other ministries, particularly the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Health. A few days ago, the European Commission adopted a ban on mercury in thermometers, gauges, barometers and blood pressure measuring devices, in short, in all measuring devices. The mercury is to be removed from the use of EU countries, not only from measuring devices, by 2008 or with some exceptions by 2011. The second largest mercury mine in the world has been operating in Idrija for almost half a thousand years, so I ask all questions, Minister Podobnik: How is the Republic of Slovenia preparing for the region of the country as well as for the area of Idrija, which is the most burdened with mercury? I also ask you: Do you think in the government that now that the mine will be closed, the power to enforce the law will be transferred to your ministry, since this is now primarily an environmental problem and partly the problem of the Ministry of Health, which is regulated by the law on nuclear safety and ionising radiation? Thank you very much in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u144	I invite the Minister of Environment and Space to answer or answer. Minister Janez Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u145	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, Mr President, Sam Bevk, for the question. If I start in the back. It is true that the law in force, which is the basis for the conclusion of all the closures of the Idria Living Silver Mine, is its formal, home minister, colleague mag. Visjak, however, is increasingly a European practice that this becomes the responsibility of environmental ministers, partly health ministers. I wouldn't mind if this happened in Slovenia, but it is true that I am also successfully playing this coordinating role among the different departments associated with the overall rehabilitation of everything connected with the 500-year mining in Idrija. In your question you have very well summed up the current developments in this area. Here I would like to mention that this strategy of dealing with mercury, which was adopted last year - in this strategy it has been shown that a minister of one of the smaller countries, if well prepared, in this case with the good professional cooperation of colleagues from Spain, can achieve that there is an additional provision in the text itself. And the next sentence is our Slovenian sentence, along with Spanish assistance, we have achieved that they were included in the objective of this strategy, quote: "Sanation and monitoring of contaminated former mining areas, including appropriate management of mining waste". This is a very important area. It is not only the area of the mine and the area of the city of Idrija, it is very important, but it is due to the washing of mercury in Idrija and Soča, last but not least this strong presence is also present in the Gulf of Markets. Idria is regarded as the second largest European mercury mine, that these environmental consequences of mining are mainly noticeable in the water environment and, of course, in the air and in some other elements. With regard to the elimination of the consequences of the exploitation of mercury, the Republic of Slovenia has a very rich experience, both in mining itself and in research into the effects of mercury on the environment and human health. Here I must mention the important role played by experts in the very silver mine of the Institute of Jožef Štefan, the Clinical Centre, as well as other institutions, many studies and research have been done, and all these works will not be overlooked, but we will try to convince the Slovenian and also the international, broad, European and wider public. Here is our basic purpose of a specific form of work to establish an information and research centre, which we somehow understood as work, and which would be based in Idrija and could also act as a place for further research into mercury in the environment. The Spanish colleague, Mrs Narbona, supported us in this and I hope that we will successfully implement this project. We have appointed a working group to establish an information and research centre for mercury in which scientists and experts in the field of mining, health and environmental protection are involved. We have also prepared, in cooperation with other departments, a programme for the establishment of an information and research centre in Idrija, and we have proposed that we finance it through European instruments through the Life Plus financial programme. It is very important that this project is well prepared, and I am optimistic, I also think it will be successfully adopted. Slovenian legislation in the field of human and environmental protection already ensures that in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia standards relating to the cessation of the use of mercury in products are applied without delay and effectively, as well as standards relating to the quality of air and water, where mercury as an environmental pollutant is given increasing attention in this case. The European Strategy for the Management of Living Silver and the Council of Environmental Ministers of last June complements the need to monitor the situation and after the rehabilitation of former mines. I understand this as an instrument that allows me as a minister and thus the Slovenian government to return from a wider European space to Idrija in at least a fraction of the wealth that has literally drained from there for over half a thousand years. I have also been informed that, within the framework of the European Commission, the final phase is the preparation of a specific regulation which is related to the subject you are asking about. Through the colleagues of the Spanish Ministry of Environment and Space, if necessary, we will also cooperate with those aspects that are particularly relevant to the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u146	Thank you for your answer so far. The additional question will be raised again by Mr Bevk only. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u147	Thank you very much for your answers, Mr. Podobnik. Coordination between departments is very important. This also shows that I hope that the rehabilitation of a child's kindergarten, which is burdened with radon, will also begin as soon as possible, which is entrusted to the Ministry of Health under the previously cited law and, of course, to the Ministry of Education, because preschool education belongs to this area. I therefore hope that you will coordinate this project and successfully complete it. This is one of the current problems with mercury in Idria and this ore, which is expected to be around 10% of all global stocks. Well, there's also mud in the cleaning plant, which is loaded with mercury and can't be properly deposited anywhere, so I hope that this will be resolved in some way. However, I would like to ask you when we are talking now about the European Union Centre for Living Silver: Are you planning to include other resources in this project, from the Ministry of Higher Education to the Ministry of Education, as this centre could also become a centre where different branches of science in the field of geology, mining, metallurgy, chemistry, ecology and health are involved? In addition to the information and research facility, this is also an educational centre for our institutions and schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u148	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Thank you for the supplementary question. There is some experience that if you set too wide, then this width can sometimes turn like a boomerang, and you find it as difficult to come up with the singlest possible solutions. But regardless, I certainly see the ministry run by Dr. Zupan's colleague as one of those who might be involved. This is science technology as well as education, and perhaps some, but not least, we are very well involved in some of the aspects with our health colleagues, i.e. the Department of Health. I would also like to explain when you mentioned the open issue of the rehabilitation of one of the Idrian kindergartens, which is very burdened by the consequences of mining because this kindergarten is built on the mining hold. Our department, particularly Dr. Beast's colleague, has also made a few smaller budgetary allocations for these purposes this year, but today at the end of February, unofficial information says that the project that was announced by the Idrija Development Agency - if I am not mistaken, with the participation of kindergarten - to the Norwegian Fund's financial instrument in Brussels is very good for us. And because this project, where the participation of European money is very high, if we stick together to ensure that this project succeeds, then that it will be agreed, then it means that, together with the state money of two, three sources, it will be smaller, very smaller participation of the Idrija municipality, that next year it will be one of the positive projects that this kindergarten will also be successfully rehabilitated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u150	Thank you. The next on the list of Members asking the question of the Member of Parliament is Ambassador Majda Širc, whose question is addressed to the Minister without a document responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u151	Mr Damian, a nice greeting and already in advance thank you for your answer to the question by which I risk the label of possible "old conservatives" or "anti-reformators", at least so dissuade those who question the social attitudes proposed by reform experiments. But still. Mr Damian, before you became Minister without a license, you said - and here I quote - that Slovenian national identity is not threatened until the cultural people in Slovenia have privileged status as well as that culture is like agriculture another "holy cow". Of course, in the light of these claims, I am justifiably concerned, too, that reforms touch culture in a significant part, if not even fateful. One of the analyses on the impact of the single tax rate ordered by the Ministry of Culture, which has been hidden for a long time, but is now no longer available, is also dealing with reforms in Slovakia on this subject of uniform tax rates and the findings are dramatic. Culture is in a catastrophic state in Slovakia. We knew that before the analysis, but it was confirmed. So I ask you: do you think the EDS is really the best solution for the development of culture in Slovenia, especially in the light of your former claims? And let me remind you that in Slovakia, by introducing a single tax rate, the book has been irreduced by 10% to 30% - not as little as you think it should be in Slovenia; - to reduce the number of smaller non-commercial publications; to reduce the volume, volume of printing, books and non-commercial magazines, which, of course, falls to a large extent to the information and awareness of people; to the extent that the share of cultural resources in Slovakia is currently one of the lowest in Europe, not only among members, probably also outside the Member States, and that cultural institutions are highly dependent on state subsidies, which, as a result, can also promise us with your reforms in Slovenia. Of course, I am interested in all these questions in the light of the consequences of reforms in Slovenia and: Are they really the best solution for us?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u152	Thank you. Minister, please respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Shirca, for that question. Thank you for the question in particular in this regard, because this way we can also explain certain uncertainties or less known facts regarding the single tax rate or even the projected tax reforms in Slovenia. See, the Ministry of Culture has ordered three studies, here I have them, now they are also public, about the impact of a single tax rate on culture in Slovenia. Two studies are rather serious, serious economic studies, which show from the point of view of the professional approach, a very serious approach to establishing a uniform tax rate for income and value added tax not having any significant effects on culture. Maybe later I'll give this a little more detail. Of course, you have decided on a question based on a third study, the title of which is: The advantages and disadvantages of the possible application of the single tax rate in Slovenia for the field of cultural activities based on a comparative analysis with Slovakia and its experience. Unfortunately, this third analysis, you've probably read it -- the one you didn't, I suggest you read it -- it's pretty flawed, it's pretty weak. Now, I will only present here a review by the Ministry of Culture, which has made an internal review of all three studies, but the internal review of this third study has been disastrous. Maybe I can just read you a few sentences out here - you'll see. At the Ministry of Culture, they are probably not overly inclined to introduce a single tax rate because they are protecting their own portfolio. Normally, but despite being critical of all studies, in fact, as very constructive and serious, they supported the first two studies I mentioned, an economic study. While the third one is actually, in its own words, "sesouli." Maybe a few phrases from their statements. I quote: "The title and purpose of the research is clear, unfortunately, the research is stuck in the field of political-media conflicts for and against EDS in Slovakia, but does not provide any concrete data on the consequences of the EDS and has a national report on the Slovak cultural policy of the Council of Europe in 2003." This was in the year before Slovakia introduced a uniform tax rate. Then forward, "that researchers understood very poorly" and so on and that "really more reflect the fears of culturers - in narration - in Slovakia before the introduction of a single tax rate, because the consequences were not determined later". If we look ahead, "...instead of a clear picture of the economic effects of EDS on culture in Slovakia, researchers have provided us with other, broader effects, which are not actually effects, but rather predictions. Unfortunately, this is not useful for the current needs of the Ministry of Culture, because at the moment we need the clearly developed economic effects of EDS in the field of culture, so that we can then move from philosophy to strategy." Therefore, a number of additions were also proposed, which, of course, were not made by the contracting authority or by that contractor. They suggested that a really concrete survey be made in Slovakia about what happened to culture, suggesting how many books have been less published, how the price of books and ticket prices has changed, what is happening with the consumption of culture in Slovakia, how many publications or other cultural institutions have fallen - so to speak, specific things - whether there have been restructuring of cultural producers and cultural offerings, what are the effects of EDS on the public sector in culture, what is the NGO sector in culture, what is the availability of culture - say what is happening with the number of visitors, regional aspect, etc. So a supplement is proposed, but of course it has not been made. More specifically, look at us in the field of culture - you yourself were the secretary of state at the Ministry of Culture years ago. We do not have detailed analyses of the demand for culture, so to speak, of consumer surveys. We have one broader consumer survey conducted by the Statistical Office, where culture is covered by recreation. So we don't even know how much this is real consumption or how much the social layer is asking for it. I've been doing this a little bit lately, but these things are off the record, so I wouldn't talk about it. In short, this analysis for Slovakia is relatively weak. As for Slovenia, see if I analyse or summarize other studies. The first two studies showed, say, the impact of what will happen to the costs of cultural institutions, public institutions. These are expected to be reduced by around 1.5 billion tolars, 800 million in the area of the abolition of taxes on paid salaries, 700 million in the reduction of income. Public institutions like Cankar's home, Drama, would be better off because they'd have less costs. As regards the introduction of value added tax. At 17% of the EDS value added tax, the costs for culture should be [[...]] [[Warning signal.]] [[... ...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] There, between 0.13% and 1.8%, 20% would increase slightly by a slight decrease. [[...]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u154	Minister, it's your time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u155	I'll be right there. On the other hand, there is a budget for culture in recent years [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u156	Minister, you're running out of time, so you're automatically out of words. That's what happened now. Mrs. Shirca, a supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u157	Yes, and an extra time for Mr. Damian. Indeed, I have also read the other two studies, which are based on more economic calculations, but the third study on Slovakia does not contain these empirical data, but contains a spirit and message and clear statements that it does not play with such a political experiment are literally cited. Maybe this analysis will be complemented. But, Mr Damian, if you go to Slovakia, you will actually see that institutions are at large and doubtless in these two years, since a single tax rate has been introduced or since these reforms have occurred, in fact, since then they have also considered this, although, I admit, they have not behaved very well with cultural regulations. The real studies by Mr Vahčič and Mrs Šuštersič are more based on empirical data, but they also raise a key question, which I am also asking you in addition. If certain expenditure by the State is to be reduced by culture, there will be one specific gap that will need to be compensated. And you have already declared in public that these are then other mechanisms, including subsidies. Are not subsidies then a greater dependence on culture or something else from the country? For example, do you agree with the greater - with support, you, as a liberal advocate of the market economy, with support, subsidies to the media? Greater dependence on the State and greater subsidies support this. I would also like an answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u158	The answer to the supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u159	Thank you. The first part of your question is the state of culture in Slovakia. As you yourself have found, the situation there before was catastrophic and still catastrophic. And what is now happening in the area of culture there is not a problem of a single tax rate, but it is more of a problem because this is clearly not the main priority of development in Slovakia. In Slovenia, the situation in the field of culture is significantly better. We're aware of that. In Slovenia, culture is a national value and we all support it. There's a lot of difference here. That is why we are already basically in a significantly better starting position. I don't think this situation will get any worse in the future. As far as the second part of your question is concerned. Look at the financing of cultural services or cultural products in Slovenia, I agree with you that subsidisation or dependence on the country is not the best. But we need to look at the structure of what is being published in Slovenia or what the structure of services is. In the field of publishing, after an internal analysis of the Ministry of Culture, it appears that about 10% of all books published are those which are indeed books; for example, the beauty works of Slovenian authors or what actually belongs to that national publication in Slovenia, but everything else is more or less commercial. Of course, it makes sense to support with state subsidies what leads to the preservation of the Slovenian language, the publication of Slovenian works of beauty or certain professional literature in the Slovenian language. Everything else that's commercial, like Harry Potter and stuff like that, it doesn't make sense to fund through the budget, but let's just fund it on the market. I think that makes sense. As far as supporting culture with subsidies is concerned, if you look at the budget for this year according to last year, you will see that the funding for culture has increased significantly. Last year, 392 million tolars were allocated for cultural subsidies in library and publishing, this year 532, says plough 140 million, plus 22%. This is where the government's real policy on culture is already reflected. For culture is indeed our national value, or it promotes our national identity, and I think that this policy will continue. Once again, there are programmes that can survive on the market and there is no point in financing them. There are, however, programmes that must always be financed by the State if we want to keep the Slovenian word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u160	Thank you. It's Shirtz's emissary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u161	I would like to propose, on the basis of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure or Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, that we hold a debate in the National Assembly on this subject, on the Minister's reply. He himself said that there were less known facts that, after all, there were no such conversations on the subject. We know, however, that the sanctity of this area has been mentioned many times - not only in the context of "holy cows". I'd like to say that. Here are more complex answers than you might notice at the first moment. The European Directive makes it clear that we cannot share literature in a commercial and non-commercial manner and now support only one specific [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u162	Ambassador Shirca, although I agree with your explanation, I have to interrupt the National Assembly, Minister. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u163	Underlining [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u164	We've all understood your procedural proposal. [[...]] The State Assembly will meet with him tomorrow in the framework of the votes. With this too [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u165	I would like to point out that I have not yet used my time to justify why this is necessary. This is, I think, also in the interests of the Minister, because he himself said that such issues need to be raised more out loud than they have been before, and it is possible to address certain uncertainties which ultimately have one side and the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u166	Thank you. We're moving on to the applicants. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Minister of the Interior, Dragutin Mate, will raise the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, in the beginning, I'm going to ask you a simple question. Do the authorities in the Republic of Slovenia maintain or collect data on victims of sexual abuse? In 1997, Slovenia reported in a report on measures taken to implement the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the basis of reports, or the work of both the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, that adequate work is still not prepared for working with victims in Slovenia, and that procedures for collecting evidence in cases of neglect and abuse of children are difficult due to the unconnected operation of services and the slow action of courts. In 2006, nine years later, after this report in Slovenia, there is still no multidisciplinary approach in the process of addressing sexual violence. There is still no analysis based on Slovenian society, but the results of international research, taking into account the methodological differences, show a comparable situation in Slovenia. Although I do not have time today to describe what would be meaningful to describe and highlight today. Excuse me. Sexual violence and child abuse are a social phenomenon of increasing proportions. Only 11% of the perpetrators are known in the environment in which they live and most remain undiscovered. An important part of the perpetrators of crimes against sexual inviolability repeats, return or recidivism in cases of sexual abuse reaches up to 70% according to data. Foreign experience has shown that only adequate therapeutic treatment is considered while prison sentences are being suspended and, above all, systematic monitoring to some extent reduces recidivism. The psychological examination of the plausibility of polygraph statements was used in the process of explaining and detecting the sexual experience and practices of the perpetrators. An average of 163 additional unknown victims were discovered by means of a polygraph method. What I am asking you, Minister, is: How is the use of a polygraph in the Republic of Slovenia to detect or monitor offenders in the area of sexual inviolability?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u168	Thank you. Minister Mate, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Chairman. Madam Member, I will answer this part of the question you have asked me, how is polygraphing returnees as well as those who commit such a crime for the first time. I must make it very clear that Slovenian legislation very precisely defines when and how polygraph testing can be used. This is defined in Article 148 of the Criminal Procedure Act and Article 54 of the Police Act. The police can therefore use polygraph testing to detect crimes or to detect and find material evidence of crimes. All polygraph tests in Slovenia are carried out by trained, trained polygraphists who are specially qualified for this work, polygraph testing can only be carried out in a special laboratory, which is, of course, suitable for such testing. Every polygraph test in Slovenia, whether it is a returnee or a crime committed for the first time, shall be carried out by prior written consent of the person who agrees to carry out polygraph testing and evaluation of the polygrapher, who shall determine if such a person is even able to perform such tests on a polygraph. If they are minors and are polygraphed, they must give such consent to their parents. In the detection of crimes, this is merely an auxiliary means, it is said, by means of this means the police may later acquire or exclude a possible perpetrator and, in subsequent proceedings, must obtain all other evidence of a crime and on the basis of this evidence, the court or the prosecution may then decide. Polygraph testing is not some kind of technical tool that, of course, could prove the fault to anyone. I must say that 109 polygraph tests were conducted in Slovenia in 2004, of which 9 were conducted in connection with sexual inviolability. In the last year, the cases have not yet been fully completed due to the technical processing of computers, over 140 polygraph tests have been carried out and four tests have been carried out in connection with sexual inviolability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u170	Thank you. Additional question, Ambassador Barbara Žganjer Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Minister. However, I expected more of your answer today, given that you have already mentioned these nudity numbers to me on my written question at the end of last year. Allow me, I am convinced that in 2004 there were more than 9 reports of sexual violence and in 2005 more than 4 reports of sexual violence, as many polygraph tests were carried out. Let me see why I actually went with this question or highlighted this topic. The use of a polygraph method in child sexual assault monitoring programmes, where, in addition to a representative of the judiciary and a specially trained polygraph investigator, a social worker and, or therapist, have demonstrated many advantages. In short, this method is very effective. Let me briefly list some of the advantages. Early detection of relapse, protection of potential victims and, of course, of societies, deterring perpetrators from returning, improving therapeutic effects, reducing the number of prisoners, reducing costs in prisons, unloading justice workers and so on. And lastly, allow, in the United States of America, not to say that we always refer solely to America, even in Great Britain and Belgium, they have already legalized and further trained professionals who will be qualified, expertly qualified to be able to polygraph the perpetrators of crimes of sexual violence. I wonder: Do you think in this direction whether it would make sense or believe that it would make sense to expect your ministry to think in this direction that a similar matter would be affected in the Republic of Slovenia, following the example of the United States of America or, lastly, European countries that are more advanced in this area than Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u172	Thank you. Complementary response, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u173	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you for that additional question. Actually, why? Our legislation is extremely restrictive when using a polygraph. So that at this point in the Republic of Slovenia we cannot polish, if I say domestically, anyone who voluntarily accepts such testing. And that's a serious problem. With the amendment of the legislation, the police would have been given additional powers. Typically, civil society is not overly enthusiastic about the new, additional powers given to the police. Of course, these matters can be considered and discussed. Of course, the criminal code should properly place when, how and where polygraph testing is used. The examples that you have cited, or the countries that you have cited, that have gone a long way in this area, which you have highlighted many times, not only to me, but also to other colleagues. With regard to the sexual inviolability of minors in particular, I think we have quite a few reserves in our legislation, where we need to seriously consider how to put these matters in such a place, so that we can find these perpetrators more quickly and more easily and properly, and then monitor them later and further polish them. This is, of course, linked to the amendment of the legislation. At this point, I think that some of the legislative changes are taking place, and in our department we will seriously consider your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u174	Minister, thank you for your answer. Let's keep asking questions. We're at number 27, Vice President Mag. Vasja Klavora will ask a question from the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Milan Zver. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u175	Mr Vice-President, honourable ministers, Minister for Education and Sport, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! My question has been before the public for a long time, and it may be very simple, but I have nevertheless decided to ask this question in the Chamber of the National Assembly. I ask you, Mr. Minister: What are the chances that the condition of mountain jumpers will be rectified as soon as possible, and so that the country will also participate in the establishment of a modern sports centre for jumping sports? In fact, we learned from the media that it started - this was recently - to knock down another 90-meter jumper [[The old Blood Jumper is so broken]] . Lucky it didn't happen during a sports event. It is more than obvious that the narrower area of Planica, with its long-lasting or destroyed sports facilities, is no longer capable of performing any of the functions for which its original founders have designated it more than 70 years ago. For this reason, the national sector sports associations in the Olympic Committee of Slovenia expressed themselves for the gradual construction of the State Sports Centre in Planica. I wonder: Will your ministry be involved in the gradual construction of that sports centre in Planica? I am aware that, in order to achieve such a goal, a thorough shock of the current situation is necessary and accordingly the creation of a quality development vision in the light of all the relevant functions of such a centre. I would also like to ask: Does your ministry see its role in the establishment of such a state sports centre or how the competent ministry will participate in the rehabilitation of mountain diving facilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u176	Thank you. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u177	Dear Member and Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for this question, which is very timely and very timely. We are just getting ready for the World Cup again in ski summers and Planica will become again in March, as every year, the central theme of sports lovers, in particular winter sports. The country will certainly retain an important role in the resolution of this facility or complex, which has a wider national significance for Slovenia, as you yourself have found, for decades and decades. How to approach this is a much more difficult question. Years ago, the Institute of Planica, which is now at rest, was founded. We will certainly try this year to revive the plant Planica, to redefine the relationship between all factors, that is, between the country, the Olympic Committee, the Ski Association of Slovenia, the local community, as well as potential societies and others, organisational committees and so on. However, we must not exclude the private economy here, which shows its business interest in the renovation of Planica and in particular wants to be involved in the various events organised by this complex or sports centre. What steps will we take? We will first, of course, form an interdepartmental commission, which will be composed of representatives from different ministries. This should prepare in a relatively short time a calendar of all necessary steps. It is certainly among the first such steps to regulate property relations, for the state cannot, until the ownership relationship is clearly defined, invest its resources or transfer European funds to this project. As you know, we have recently lost quite a part of the 406 million Slovenian tolars, because some who were responsible for this project have acted wrongly or even unlawfully. Despite this development, the country will continue to work with other stakeholders to rebuild this project, which must become a central sports and recreational centre within a few years, especially as we are facing major international events in 2010 and 2011. So, first of all, to set up ownership relations - here we expect the key role of the municipality of Kranjska Gora, which has to agree with all owners, because this property is extremely dispersed; hundreds of owners unite in agrarian communities and have received an annual rent for years and years, and that is quite a lot. Although the value of those plots is minimal, of course the market value, the current value is quite high. Therefore, if we are to take this project seriously as a country, property relations must be resolved either by long-term rent or by redemption. And we have to do this in a relatively short time, very quickly. Procedures are therefore already under way, along with the Agricultural Land Fund, arrangements are already under way. When the congregation acquires these lands, it will transfer them as its share to a joint sports or institution, forgive us, the Planica we will revive, to a new writing of relations and obligations, and this institution will carry out with this facility. The founders, once again, stress that the state, the local community and the Olympic Committees of this ski association should be. Of course, it is possible to include other factors, but it would be good for you to be the key founders of this institution. This institution will then care and manage this large Nordic centre of Planica, and I think if we succeed and believe that we will be able to overcome various partial interests this year, especially individual and special ones, so that we can establish a basis in a relatively short time which will also have a formal legal basis on which we can enable all factors to actively integrate this complex of Planica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u178	Thank you. Complementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Just what you said last time, this uncoordinated operation of the various factors that took care of Planica, really uncoordinated activity, has led to the slow decline of our Planica and that today we have the same image as the mountain image. But I thank you for your words. I hope that the country will play an important role here, including your ministry, and that in the short term, Planica will become at least what we watch on television screens when we watch other jumping centers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u180	Yes, you can. Of course you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Just let me have a sentence. After some years of work and effort, I can tell you that we've already reached a common noun. So we have already discussed with the Slovenian Ski Association that we will, and the Olympic Committee, approach together to solve this problem. The Krahnska Gora as a municipality shows interest, so I have a feeling that we are ahead of some great common compromise on the perspective of this ski resort.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u182	Thank you. We continue with questions on the basis of the list of applicants. The following will be asked by the Minister without a charter responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia, Minister Milan M. Cvikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u183	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, Slovenia and Slovenia, Mr Minister. On 20 December 2005, the National Assembly appointed you Minister without a licence responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Slovenian Development Strategy. A few weeks later, the government renamed you Minister of Development. The logical question is therefore: What powers do you and your job now have? What is the responsibility for development reforms, for example, for sustainable environmental development? On you, or on the Minister for the Environment responsible for environmental development? Further, if we look at the area of economic development. I wonder, as I asked in my question: What measures do you intend to take as responsible, obviously, for economic development, this year, and what measures do you intend to take next year? What will you do to relieve the economy? How do you plan to do that? Who's going to propose that? You, Mr. Minister, Minister of the Economy or Minister of Finance? And above all, what and when will you suggest something? In the field of research and development, you said that the key objective is to increase the expenditure or share of R & D-oriented expenditure. I want to know: How will you achieve this when the share of R & D resources in the 2007 adopted budget decreases according to the proportion of the budget in 2006. I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, how you intend to link with the restructuring of public finances when on the one hand you propose to give more for the environment, economy and research, and, in line with the first, only the first of the 67 measures under the reform framework, to reduce public spending by two percentage points by 2008. If we have properly calculated this amounts to almost 150 billion less expenditure in 2006-2007. Will you require the preparation of a new budget for 2007? Will you propose a rebalancing for 2006? I would like you to answer these questions specifically because I would like to understand your role as Minister for Development in relation to other ministers. And I would like to understand what your service to monitor and implement the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia will do this year. How will you change or supplement the government’s work programme? What and when will we receive in the National Assembly a proposal for action, a proposal for programmes, a proposal for laws with which you will be 150 billion, as it says [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] reduce public financial expenditure in the framework programme? [[...]] Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u184	Thank you for the interesting question. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u185	Thank you, Mr Squeakle, for another very interesting question. The government has set up this development service, which has been renamed the RS Development Service, that it is shorter, that there is no problem because I was the Minister with the longest working name. Last year, the government adopted this framework for economic and social reforms and set itself a very ambitious goal to implement these reforms in this year and in part in 2007. This year, 67 of these measures are to be implemented, which are listed there. And the implementation of these measures is indicated in the Government's work programme itself. This government work programme has been very actively coordinated with individual departments at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year. This government work programme is available publicly, as you can see. In particular, when individual measures are covered by this government work programme, you can see in this timetable the adoption and implementation of measures in the context of economic and social reforms to increase prosperity in Slovenia. We also presented this matter to the public at the press conference and it is also available on our website. Here, you have very specific measures listed, by individual carriers, by individual laws and by legal acts, what will be the dynamics of their adoption, when will they be at the government, when will they be in Parliament. One of the questions, or substantiations, was how we picture ourselves or what our authority is. See, our competence is not to manage individual resources, but to coordinate the work of the resource group in the direction, it is said that this work of the resource sector towards the labelling of individual concrete measures would be more current and significantly more connected and in line with the whole spirit of these reforms, which is intended to mainly relieve the economy and increase economic growth in order to make it easier to ensure greater prosperity for the people of Slovenia. To this end, in order to facilitate coordination, the government set up ten working groups two weeks ago on 9 February following these ten priorities, but, if I may tell you, a working group to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, then for greater investment in technological development, the envisaged withdrawal of the country from the economy, the restructuring of public finances, such as one of your issues, labour market reform, reform in the field of social transfers, then reform in the area of the pension system, for which there is already a working group of governments, then reform in the areas of the health system, coordination and final coordination of state development planning, it is said, to invest state resources in development projects as effectively as possible. Within the framework of these ten working groups or eleven, taking into account this pension system group, the coordination of individual resources is under way and in this framework the preparation of individual legislative and sub-legislative acts is being prepared or coordinated. We can go through this time-table, I can tell you very specifically when a matter under the government's work programme should be adopted in Parliament and in accordance with this time-table, or when it should go to the government when it will be adopted by Parliament, I think it makes no sense because the matter is quite long. Maybe just how we're gonna do this job as a development service. In particular, this coordinating function is important, which means that we will report to the government each month on the dynamics of the preparation of individual legal, sub-legislative acts, the report will be on the government every month, and let's say the first report is being completed today, saying what individual departments have done in the first two months of this year when they adopt or prepare legal and sub-legislative acts, and we will specify exactly what ministries this work programme of the government have done, which are not, why it is lagging behind and so on. I think that this function is extremely important, even when we entered the European Union, it was of great importance, so this control and control of the process itself and the control of the dynamics of the adoption of these acts, because I think this role is extremely important. Of course, we will not only be satisfied here with the fact that the dynamics of adoption will be what it is, but we will also go deeper into this area, it is true for the substantive part of individual reforms, that we will actually control that there will be legal, sub-legislative acts in accordance with the spirit of reforms or in accordance with individual measures, that we are not only interested in quantity, but in particular in the quality of the rules adopted. As regards public finances, purely for the end, restructuring, this issue is now in the working phase, as part of the working group we have prepared a programme or working group in specific areas, but this will be the case [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u186	I'll be done in a minute. This restructuring programme will be the presentation of the activity at the time of adoption [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u187	Minister, for you always, as you exceed the agreed time, do not speak into the microphone anymore and no one in Slovenia can hear you, except of course us, who are in your immediate vicinity, for you to know. Complementary question, here you go, Comrade Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u188	Look, Mr. Minister, I know how to read everything on the Internet, and I would say, the tasks of your work, but Mr. Minister, let's be concrete. When you became Minister for Development, you said that you did not deviate from the concept of a single tax rate. In Mr Janša's letter to parliamentary parties, both representatives of the national community are no longer. Does this mean that you have personally deviated from the uniform tax rate? Secondly, you're talking about the first measure in your press conference to work on solving labour costs. You stood up before you became Minister for Development to abolish the tax on paid salaries in 2007. This requires that in 2006 the law on the abolition of taxes on paid salaries be amended. But in the government program that you said was your Bible, that's not it. There is no proposal to amend the abolition law, which would, of course, have abolished the wage tax already in 2006 or with the entry into force of 2007. How will you implement a measure called labour cost relief? Only with a uniform tax rate on income if you haven't already given up on it? And then another set of questions. You said that one of the key objectives of the government service was also a transparent withdrawal [[?]] countries from the economy. We saw what was going on at Mercator, a similar thing happening at Mercury. Do you seriously think it is right that the CAD and the SOD have blocked the recapitalisation of Mercury because in Mercury, Savi, the Gorenje Bank, they are not real people yet. I wonder in particular whether, as Minister for Development, Minister for the Economy, his Secretary of State and, of course, the Minister of Finance and the President of the SOD Management Board, you will point out the harmful acts, the rejection of the recapitalisation of Mercury - how do you plan to increase jobs and reduce labour costs?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u189	Allow me before that, Comrade Squeakle, I did not warn you this time because you have been in Parliament so long that you know what this means. Please, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u190	Thank you. Of course, your questions are too extensive, or the answers are too extensive, to be answered within three minutes, you probably do not expect them to be. Of course, over the course of the year, there will be plenty of time to discuss this in more detail. Two questions, or two of my answers. Firstly, as regards tax reform or reduction of labour costs - here the matter is very clear, we are interested in such a type of tax reform that will reduce labour costs. At the same time, it will also be socially neutral, it is said that there will not be an increase in differences in society, an increase in income differences and budgetary sustainability. These are the three goals and, of course, we are interested in the best possible solutions here. Will this be a single tax rate on income - of course, it is our top priority because I think it is best to meet these three criteria. Of course, other solutions are possible. And if the social reality or the political reality in Slovenia is such that this concept is not acceptable or if someone proposes a better professional concept that meets all these three criteria at the same time, of course we will normally talk about it, we are open to this concept and this is stressed by both Prime Minister and I always stress it. As far as the tax on paid wages is concerned. Of course, this matter can be relatively and easily accepted. This marriage is really not in the time book, but this matter can easily be solved in such a way that it can be done. Of course, the second question is how to replace the loss of these budget revenues, which will, of course, be the second part of our work. This means, on the one hand, how much to reduce public expenditure and, of course, which alternative resources to find to fill the budget, you yourself get to know this area well, you know that there are still large reserves here, etc. As far as the second part of your question is concerned, very briefly, the withdrawal of the country from the economy or KAD and SOD. I have raised my concerns about the functioning of the KAD and the SOD, and I have made these two para-state funds very public many times, and I am very clear on these issues within the government. As you know, the working group is preparing a programme for the withdrawal of the state or both state funds from Slovenian companies, which will be prepared by the end of March and, of course, this programme will go in this direction so that as soon as possible and as transparently as possible both funds withdraw and, of course, try to have a negative impact on business operations. From this point of view, I also agree with your concerns absolutely, and that is why we want to resolve this area in the long term in such a way that the two parastatal funds become, in particular, portfolio investors, that they no longer have the possibility of having an influence through supervisory members in the supervisory boards on the business itself. I think we will find one such acceptable solution that will also be feasible in the next three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u191	Thank you. My friend Squeakle? Procedurally? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u192	Mr President, I think that, of course, Mr Minister himself will say why it is necessary, in accordance with Article 246, paragraph 3, to hold a debate on the need for the State assembly to hold a broader debate at the next meeting on the answers of the Minister for Development. I like your answers, of course I have only the problem that they are inconsistent with what Mr Janša says, because I would expect his letter to say that it is to maintain a uniform tax rate on income, because it simply means that we know that it is to shift from the poor to the richer or that it is going, Mr Minister, to replace, of course, the poorer with social transfers with the loss of income that will happen when you raise the lowest rate to 20%, that is the first fact. Second fact. I am pleased that you agree to abolish the tax on salaries paid in 2006. We will put the procedure into the National Assembly ourselves so that it will not be necessary for the government to do so, and we have already done so, and indeed, I am pleased that in 2006 we will abolish the tax on paid salaries. And then the only problem that we have, Mr Minister, is to hold a debate in the National Assembly in accordance with Article 246, paragraph 3, is how about 40 billion falls off on income and probably around 60.70 billion falls off on taxes paid on salaries to cover or ensure a reduction in expenditure. This, of course, is the hard part, and here I assume that the government will ensure this reduction by means of a budgetary memorandum, in particular from the starting points for the preparation of the 2007 budget changes. I expect the 2007 budget to be nominal for around 100, 110 billion below 2006. This is a very difficult task, and I therefore propose that you, of course, suggest to the Members of the ruling coalition that we should have a debate on this in March, as these substantive discussions are being prepared, in particular the 2007 budget. I also propose that we hold a debate on this second part of your response regarding the transparent withdrawal of the state from the economy. We both agree that, of course, it is inappropriate for KAD and the SOD, for some reasons, to block the recapitalisation of Mercury. I think it is right to talk about this, right to talk about the fact that, of course, you have made a stupid transaction with Mercator and where and I think that you need to find a way to correct the mistakes of this mandate first, especially due to the inadequate functioning of the KAD and the SOD, and I hope that you, as Minister of Development, will help us to do so, because this is also our main point of the letter to Mr Janša. It is very difficult for us to go to reforms that we do not know what they are unless a basic, basic position is ensured first. You are well aware, however, that the three budgets of Mr Janša's four-year rule are poorly prepared, poorly accepted, need to be corrected and a serious debate is needed. I therefore propose that we vote on this tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u193	I suggest we move on. With this brief debate, Comrade Squeakl, you have enjoyed more than the rules of procedure allow you, as you yourself know. However, let us say that at this hour we look through your fingers, and I believe that in this case you will also be able to play the rules of procedure, the government of the Republic of Slovenia [[?]] And they're not going to get used to it. We continue with the 31st in line, this is fellow Member Jožef Horvat, who will raise the question of a letter to the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister, the most distinguished Members and Members of Parliament! The information society is one of the most important areas for the further development of Slovenia. At the same time, it is one of the foundations of the European Union's ambition to become a knowledge-based economic power by the end of 2010. The development of the information society has a significant impact on increasing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and society, increasing the number of jobs with high added value, improving the quality of life and balanced regional development, I am firmly convinced of this. Informing the company is an integral part of this government's programme. The Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology shall be responsible for the coordinated implementation of the information society programme. Dear Minister Jure Zupan, my question is this: What are the activities of the Ministry you run to promote the development of the information society? I thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u195	Thank you. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Ambassador Horvath! You ask me about the activities carried out by our ministry in relation to the information society. This is, as you yourself have found, an extremely important segment, which also has a very high weight in the Lisbon Strategy. I would like to say that according to Eurostat, which examines countries in the European Community, Slovenia is relatively well classified as regards the information society. In Slovenia, the number of mobile phones is 87% of households, which means that only 13% of all households are still without a cell phone. It is important that 61% of households have a personal computer and that almost 50% of these computers are already connected to the Internet, meaning that 50% of households are actually connected to the world network. But it is true that only 40% of these, so if we are looking now, this is only 20% of these households that have Internet computers, but fast ADSL has a line or any other of these fast lines, which means that Slovenia has to take a few steps to get to the very top of the information developed countries. Right, that's the situation, the fact is we have to do more. And the activities that our Ministry of Labour is doing are the following, and we have listed eight activities that we are carrying out in this regard, and I will briefly comment on them. The first, of course, is the increase in accessibility, this accessibility to information services for all people in Slovenia, which means, of course, E libraries, E-schools, multi media centres, and which may be of interest to youth, these are music-information centres, which means they get a list of all the music, of course that is also classical, which is accessible and where it is accessible. This is important. Another activity is the promotion of E-totals, i.e. electronic content that is not only informational, but that is the digitisation of our cultural heritage, through which we introduce cooperation with NUK and RTV Slovenia, to digitise those content that is, of course, important for our cultural heritage and also preserve, maintain and provide for professional and scientific purposes. This is an extremely important matter, which, of course, is of great value to the nation, for Slovenia as a nation. The third activity is, of course, co-financing the development and establishment of the services needed for local communities, which means, of course, that we are in this area, but we can argue, much above the average compared to the European Community, with most of the European Community countries, because we already have nodes across many municipalities and other local communities directly connected to the central links, the links of the central data bank, where in municipalities via various activities, including VEM points, citizens and citizens can receive certain information, not only by getting them there, but also by connecting them from home to these points and then from home to obtain relevant information. These are, say, e-governances, e-forms and the like, which are already connected to local communities. The fourth activity is co-financing, the computerisation of the unemployed, which is important for employment. Fifth, however, there are fast internet connections via Arnes, but it must be said here that this is an academic network to connect, but we also connect users that are accessible, so this is all from kindergartens, primary schools, high schools and high schools. The sixth activity is the creation of mobility of researchers under the edurom project. This is that through the information society connections are established where researchers and older and younger people can look for connections and thus connect with the world, both with Europe and elsewhere. The 7th activity is the establishment of interoperability, a framework for easier and faster development. In particular, interoperability means that the different databases created by individual users are linked together so that users no longer need to jump from one database to another, but that for different databases that are interoperable, the data can be transmitted directly and users can only work on one form, say. I'm sorry, it's just, it was the eighth activity and it's doing the MVZT as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-27-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u197	Thank you. With this we are moving on to the foreseeable, I stress the expected second round of questions sent, but given that there are no questioners, not that minister, we will of course skip this. I thank the Members and Members who have asked a question, or all those who have kept me company until this hour, also the Prime Minister and ministers, especially the Minister for the answers given. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also hereby adjourn the 14th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good evening and good luck!
