ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u1	Good morning, everyone! Because time is gold, we'll be on time and we'll get to work. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister! Nice greetings to the youngest visitors in the stands! I begin the continuation of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, Aurelio Juri, Drago Koren from 18:00 on, Flower Zalokar Orazem and Alojz Posedel. We're moving to 11. POINT OF THE DAY’S ORDINATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE BERGE PROTECTION AND SOCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS LAW. The proposal shall be tabled in the summary procedure. We have three hours and 50 minutes to discuss. For consideration, the draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and therefore by its representative, Mr Minister, Mag. I'd like to ask you for an additional explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members! Hello! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of the importance and role of the family in society, as well as the need for protection by the State. It is therefore our responsibility that activities at national level are geared towards the well-being of future generations and that conditions are constantly being created for the best possible quality of life for all families. In the event of a general decline in birth, in which Slovenia is no exception, it is encouraging to welcome more and more families. The coordination of different resources should be reflected in the improved role of parenting, the coordination of professional and family life. Safety of employment of future mothers and fathers, equal opportunities for both parents to raise and care for children, more flexible forms of child care organisation and real prices of services, adequately guaranteed reproductive health of women, improving the quality of life-threatening family forms such as single-parent families, families with disabled children or socially disadvantaged families. At the Ministry, we strive to strengthen the role of father in the family and to ensure better coordination of work and family life and to promote a more equitable sharing of family work and parenthood between both spouses and parents. However, some of the proposed amendments to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Remuneration represent an important aspect at the beginning of the resolution. The objectives of the amendments to the law are: to address the identified shortcomings that we have seen since the enactment of the law in 2001 in terms only of editorial corrections that will enable better understanding and facilitate the exercise of rights. Introduce new rights or amend provisions that did not promote the involvement of the father during the earliest period. We are proposing some rights that are expanding; we are also extending the right to a shorter working time due to parenthood to parents who are not in a dependent working relationship. They're self-employed and farmers. We extend the right to one of the parents who cares for and protects two children by the age of 6. We also propose the right to pay social security contributions in the case of four or more children. One of the parents has the right to pay social security contributions by the age of 10 of the youngest child. We propose extending the right to partial payment for lost income to one of the parents who nurtures and protects two or more children with moderate or severe mental impairment or moderate or severe motion impairment. And we're improving. The right to a large family allowance will no longer be limited on a date, higher amounts are fixed, the allowance for a family with three children is 82 thousand dollars, and the allowance for a large family with four children will amount to a new 100 thousand dollars. Under the conditions for obtaining a child supplement, we only propose a condition of residence, not a condition of permanent residence. We also propose deleting the conditions of a pre-graduate study to obtain a child supplement, which means aligning with the Bologna Declaration and, of course, enforcing a child supplement in different ways of education at the university. We propose a change in the exercise of the rights already established, which prevents the poor or inadequate use of parental leave, paternity leave as a right to charity. With these changes, we encourage fathers to benefit from leave when it is most important for a child, i.e. during the first years of their child’s life. I propose, honourable Members and Members, that you adopt the law tabled in the text tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I very much welcome all of you here. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the law in question at its 14th regular session of 5.4. this year. The committee was attended by a representative of the proposer with the Minister of Master Drobnik at the head, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, representatives of the Community of the Centre for Social Work, a representative of the Social Chamber and a representative of the Family Initiative. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. This bill was examined in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and made specific comments to the three articles. Members of the Committee also received comments from the community of social work centres and comments from the Family Initiative or the Family-Friendly Society. We were also familiar with the opinion of the State Council, which supports the proposal for a law. The Commission of the State Council agreed with the Family Initiative - the Family-Friendly Society that it is necessary to create in society an appropriate climate and conditions of employment to provide employers with appropriate subsidies in the case of maternity, sick and other absences from work for the protection and upbringing of children. The amendments were submitted to the draft law by Ambassador Barbara Žgjar Tavš, Ambassador Anton Kokalj, the LDS Parliamentary Club and four coalition members. In the context of the debate, which took place mainly in the articles to which the amendments were submitted, particular attention was paid to the debate on the content of Articles 4, 6, 7, 13, 15 and 29. According to some discussers, certain amendments to the proposed law are reviving, but not expanding, the existing right. Thus, they did not agree that the mother had been deprived of the possibility of taking maternity leave 42 days before the expected date of delivery, as had been regulated so far, but that the period of 28 days is mandatory, as defined as the time of delivery of the gynecologist. Some considered that the right of a woman who may be more difficult to bear or who has a difficult situation in the workplace to decide on an early maternity leave, which is good for her and the child, while others defended the right of the child to remain with the mother for a longer period of time. Some also did not agree that the possibility of using paternity leave for the care and protection of a child by means of the possibility of exploitation up to the age of 8 would be reduced to 3 years of age. The fact is that these 75 unpaid days of leave are practically not used in practice, nor is it now that this period is possible until the age of 8 and it will be even harder when we change this period into less, that is to say every three years. In the next debate, it was also proposed that the right of goodness recognised by the current law should be preserved and that, according to some, the deletion of this right is unacceptable. The panellists agreed that the bill regulated the right of parents to a shorter working time and to pay social security contributions due to parenthood. They also supported an amendment that improves this right in the case of four or more children. At the end of the discussion, attention was also paid to the problems of autism, which, according to the current table for classification and definition, is not defined as a serious impact, and therefore, according to some in the field of legislation, the status of these children should be regulated and, consequently, their parents' status should be regulated. In the context of the debate and the decision on individual amendments, the Committee adopted the amendment of four parliamentary groups, did not accept the amendment of Mrs Žgajnereva's Ambassador, Ambassador Kokalja and the LDS Member Club, but also adopted a number of its amendments to the individual article of the bill. All of this is included in the amended proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first one has the word "magic." Spending on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Honorable representatives of the government! The resolution of non-compliance with the Constitution, which, following a decision of the Constitutional Court, the National Assembly is obliged to abolish within 10 months, and the decision was issued on 1 December 2005 in the Group of Social Democrats we certainly support - it is a right that is not linked to permanent residence and therefore we understand the treatment following a reduced procedure. However, the amendment of the law goes beyond the amendment of Article 67, but it does, according to the proposaler, provide minor corrections to certain uncertainties and illogicalities, if we understand correctly, not as much in the law as in its sub-laws. This is also within the limits acceptable to the reduced procedure. The main objective of this law, however, is to "improve the situation for the design and development of families and increase fertility", the end of the line. The assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of amendments and the amendment of the law are aimed at the formulation of an active demographic policy, the aim of which, I repeat, "a lasting increase in births in the Republic of Slovenia". This goes beyond the claim that there are minor interventions to the law. On the ground, it raises the question of what the proposed and obviously adopted amendments mean for the development of Slovenian society. This is all the more important because the applicant also notes that the law in force regulates the rights to parental protection and family benefits compared to other European countries at an enviable level. Of course, the comparison is hampered by specific rights that other countries do not know, and it is therefore a reasonable question whether the proposed changes really constitute an upgrade to existing rights and whether these incentives will provide the expected effects. Slovenia is really on the tail by birth, but we have very significant movements in developing the world, including the rise in the age at birth of the first child, the increase in the number of families with one child. According to public responses, our family is at the top of a scale of values, and years ago the most common response was that they want to have three children, including those with one or two, but there are no conditions for this. Employment opportunities have changed since then, young people without work experience are becoming increasingly difficult to get to their first job, and the opportunities to get an apartment are extremely difficult. The law that we decide today regulates rights in the already established families, but does not change the possibility of entry into parenthood, which means that there remain unchanged opportunities for obtaining housing, opportunities for obtaining first employment, and not least, the changes we witness indicate a different pattern of dealing with parental obligations. It is an increase in the obligations normally imposed on mothers, not so much for fathers, although the talk in this law is also about paternity leave. The reduction of the limit or age to which the father can take advantage of 75 days of unpaid, I stress that unpaid paternity leave is also unacceptable for family representatives, and this solution is linked to the practice known by other European countries that do not have such well-ordered parental protection. Social Democrats believe that lowering the age limit is unacceptable. The question is also raised whether the only way out is really to overburden mothers and encourage them to stay with their children at home, whether it is also possible for society to adopt a policy that a high proportion of children are involved in public kindergartens. This raises questions that the Social Democrats would like to have clearer answers, but also, of course, what it means to be free of time for women to make a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Today is particularly exciting on our stand, we have already been joined by another group of visitors, this time few older ones, welcome to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We continue to present the views of the parliamentary group and the word has Master Capuder on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Messengers, guests on the rostrum! The decision for marriage and for children is still a life - style that changes most of the life - styles of an individual who enters the family community. A responsible decision for children depends on a number of factors, of course the most important economic conditions, notably the employment with which financial security is conditioned, and the basic housing problem is resolved. In addition, any couple who choose to grow up will consciously give up certain comforts and comforts that life without children should bring. Although the number of families has increased in recent years, the size of families has decreased. There are more couples without children and families with one child. There are fewer and fewer families with more children. The main reasons for increasing the number of families without children are the ageing of the population and, in particular, the later entry of young generations into family life. The latter is also the reason for increasing the number of families with only one child. The work we do with joy makes us happy, and parenting is a very responsible profession. I am sure that the profession of motherhood and, after all, the profession of paternity makes him happy, but it is easier to do it if you have the support, the encouragement. This support must be provided by the whole society, first of all by the country with its legal policy, by employers who understand the concerns of parents for children, and, last but not least, by the media, which build public opinion and attitudes towards mothers, children and families and who can create a positive picture of the importance of family for the positive development of society and the country. First of all, it is necessary to create an atmosphere that will be favourable to families and children, which will help to facilitate decision-making for the first and every next child. Unfortunately, the policy of the country in the past in this area has been increasingly receptive to families with multiple children. This is why in New Slovenia - the Christian People's Party we welcome the government's decision to approach the improvement of the current law on parental protection and family benefits. One of the objectives of the proposed amendments to the current law is to improve the situation for the design and development of families and to increase fertility. In order to achieve these objectives, the government has proposed several solutions, which also follow past experience in law enforcement. Let me list only some solutions: Ensure payment of social security contributions to one of the parents for the purpose of leaving the labour market, for the care and care of four or more children up to the age of 10 years of the youngest child, raise the allowance for a large family - for families with three children there are 82,000 tolars, and for families with four or more children there are 100,000 tolars. The right to an unpaid transfer of leave for the care and protection of the child and paternity leave should be applied until the third year of the child’s age, that is, during the earliest period when the child really needs both parents. The Ministry notes that the practice of implementing the law so far has shown that the use of this leave is less effective in later periods. This part of the leave is not paid, which means that it is not stimulating for parents with lower incomes, since any loss of income is known in the family budget. It is usually used when there is a lack of regular leave or is also used for other purposes, which is not particularly good for the protection of the child’s benefits. At the same time, I believe that it is in the interests of the child to have parents involved in the upbringing and care of the child until the third year of age, and therefore the applicant has limited the exercise of this right to the third year of the child's age. I am convinced that the need for parents to be present is inversely proportional to the age of the child. After all, all parents in their adult children see this when they need us most only when they need money. Therefore, in Nova Slovenija we expect that the proposed changes will at least partially affect the increase in fertility, there is only one stone that can also affect the improvement of the demographic image of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I reiterate my invitation to the word of Mr Brenčič, this time on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, again. This is one of the laws that basically creates family policy, and it would be appropriate for a minister to be present at the hearing of such a law, if not him, at least the secretary of state. By means of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on parental protection and family benefits, the constitutional non-conformity of the provisions of Article 47 of the Act, which provides for the right to receive a child's allowance subject to the status of permanent residence, is first removed following a decision of the Constitutional Court. Furthermore, the drafter wants to improve the situation for the design and development of the family more effectively in the description of the objectives and principles of the main solutions to the bill than in the material provisions and to provide a basis for increasing fertility. Certainly, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we welcome the fact that, even on the basis of legal changes, there is a need to establish a global positive climate in our society, which will put family and children at the heart of all social developments, and not only is there a single and practical incentive from the practice so far, but it is also a very important factor to stop the decline in fertility, but there is also a need to establish a number of other incentives and, more importantly, a solution to the question of how to help young people who decide on their family get a suitable and sustainable home as soon as possible. The bill brings some of the changes that we welcome in the parliamentary group, such as the possibility of shorter working hours for one of the parents who raises and protects the child until his or her entry into school, including for self-employed persons and persons engaged in agricultural activities, and in this regard part of the obligation to pay the contributions of that parent in respect of the acquisition of the national budget. The right to work with part - time work will be followed by a new parent who protects and nurses two children with moderate or severe movemental disability or a more severe psychologically affected child. There is an increase in the allowance for a large family, and the measure is certainly not the most meaningful one, as the allowance for a large family has only been granted between a third and a fourth children, and for more than four children, the allowance remains unchanged. With the amendment adopted by the coalition, the State budget also assumes the obligation to pay social security contributions from the level of the minimum wage of parents who, due to the upbringing and protection of four and more children, leaves the labour market - but what does this mean - if it is necessary to provide funds to this end by reducing a certain budget line within the existing budget of the Ministry of Labour. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, however, unfortunately we do not support or understand the approach taken by the bill-maker to eliminate some of the immaterial measures contained in the existing law as an additional incentive for parents. There is a possibility that, due to a number of reasons, the pregnant woman may decide to take maternity leave 14 days before the compulsory maternity leave. Until now, the father had the opportunity to spend 75 days of unpaid leave of absence for the care and protection of the child until the child enters school or by the age of 8. Now, despite the fact that in practice the fathers did not take advantage of this right, this time reduces to the possibility of using up to the third year of the child's age, which is a step backwards in our firm conviction, for which there were good arguments on the Family Initiative. The proposal also removes the possibility of a benefit for several reasons of unused leave for the care and protection of the child. Despite the fact that good things did not benefit much, this possibility certainly meant additional motivation for certain individuals or parents to decide on the birth of a child. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are also united on this issue that the purpose of this measure is to weaken the purpose of the law in substance before we improve, and we are convinced that such approaches are not necessary, at least not for those who have been faced with family policy planning for years. The parliamentary group will support the bill. While Members will decide voluntarily whether or not to support the amendments tabled to the amended law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš to the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members and, of course, both government representatives! The Government, or the Minister, as the proposer, pointed out at the time of the further presentation that the law was ready to improve the conditions for the design and development of families and the increase in fertility. You know, it sounds really awesome, and I'm going to use the words of this government here, and I'm going to quote, "to achieve this goal, it's necessary to create an atmosphere in society that will be favourable to families and children, which will help to make a better decision for the first and every next child." End of quote. I believe that there is no man in this National Assembly who would believe that only one law and one law can make a positive atmosphere, especially if this law is largely restrictive or if it takes away the rights already acquired and if it wants to take these rights from children, sick children. Therefore, the government's fertility strategy makes sense to look at it in a broader context. And I'll say from word to deed. Minister Drobnic is aware that an increase in fertility can also be achieved on the basis of favourable housing policy. We have also heard this on the home work body when this law is being considered. Will the government, on behalf of the positive housing policy, additionally tax every real estate owner in that country, while renters of annual rents cannot apply as tax relief after a new one? I ask you, this is a positive policy for families, young families or children. While today's novelty brings some improvements, I must stress here the positive attitude of the government in adopting the Slovenian National Party's initiatives in the workplace, which gives the right to shorter working hours and to pay social security contributions to parents who are also self-employed, and in exercising the right to a large family allowance, which will no longer be limited on a new date. A positive change is also a recognition of the right to parental protection for public workers, a person who receives a pension will have the option of choosing between a pension or a parental allowance, and the rest is either unconscionable or unforeseeable, or going towards the deprivation of already acquired social rights. For example, the mother takes the right to choose whether to decide on maternity leave 42 days before the expected date of delivery, the father is denied the right to decide on the use of paternity leave, the right to use leave for care and child protection is violated, the right to benefit for the unused part of the leave for care and the protection of the child is abolished, the time limits for the exercise of rights under this law are reduced from 60 to 30 days and could also be listed. Since it is particularly controversial and worth considering, it is particularly worth considering among the coalition Members who are advocating this change, and at least in my opinion, according to the Slovenian National Party, there is still a moral issue, this government is supposed to go to children and to a family-friendly policy, but this government, by this law, takes the right to children's allowances to sick children. The president of the National Assembly is at the home working body, or the president of the parent working body is in the treatment of this law, after they have been, I will say, literally driven by all the opposition amendments, rightly said, and I will repeat his words, "This is the wrong world." And you know, the world is really wrong about what the government wants with this law, especially with the fact that the 2007 budget is 100 million less than this year's budget, right in the work or in the area of social security. In the Slovenian National Party, we have prepared several amendments for this consideration as well, and I hope, and at this point, I appeal to the coalition Members to reconsider and, of course, also support the amendments which are well-intentioned and which are coming back to the situation as it is today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word has magic. A priest on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u14	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The DeSUS Group will support the law on parental protection and family benefits. It brings some improvements in this area, such as the extension of the period within which the father may spend 15 first days of paternity leave, the possibility of working with shorter working hours and the payment of contributions to self-employed persons, the law, under certain conditions, makes it possible to work with shorter working hours for parents with two children, the law increases the allowance for families with four or more children, where the error of this solution is that there is no increase for those children over four, then there is no increase, which would sometimes suggest a later correction. The law improves the position of parents who care for two or more children with moderate or severe disabilities in development or moderate or severe mobility, and the law allows the payment of contributions to one of the parents who has four or more children to leave the labour market. Of course, the problem was when we adopted this marriage, the early onset of maternity leave, but in this case I do not see a particular problem, because if the pregnant woman was to be pregnant for up to 28 days before the delivery of the child, she had an absolute opportunity to obtain the hospital stock for the time that every obstetrician or personal physician should have given in order to protect this birth and the child who is coming, so that we do not see a particular problem in this. There is no law and even later will not be able to meet all and all possible expectations in this area, as the applicant must take into account the economic power of a limited country and the needs of all other beneficiaries receiving aid or resources from the State budget. In any event, however, the law is directed to help families with multiple children to inherit and ensure a modest number of people who have written down a cruel fate of disappearance. We therefore believe that improvements will be necessary and possible in the future when they are supposed to become a richer society and will therefore be more favourable conditions. Our Group of Members will continue to support this law and, of course, future changes in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Veršnik has the floor on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all present, even on the balcony of course! The Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits has been in force since 2001, and in 2003 it has experienced the first changes and additions, and we are faced with the new changes and additions we are talking about today. There are two reasons for amending the law on parental protection and family benefits. For the first time, very low, even the lowest birth rate in Europe. Secondly, the decision of the Constitutional Court on the non-constitutionality of Article 67. The proposal for amendments introduces some editorial changes that will enable better understanding and simplify the exercise of rights. On the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, the most exposed were Articles 4, 6, 7, 13, 15 and 29, which we discussed very intensively. He was heavily exposed to article 4 of the law allowing his mother to begin maternity leave 42 days before the expected delivery. This amendment is proposed in order to allow the mother to spend as much time as possible with her child at the time of maternity leave. In the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, this change is all too much to stress only the rights of the mother, who, while entitled to the sick in case of malaise or any possible complications, has the right of the child, although he does not know the real shock at the time of separation from the mother who is on maternity leave. I would like to point out that every day at this sensitive time means a lot to a child. In the opinion of our Group, the right of parents to a shorter working time is well regulated, as is the payment of social security contributions due to parenthood in the case of more than four children. In the draft law, the use of a father's leave of 75 days should be used within three years. According to the Slovenian Democratic Party, this proposal is for the benefit of the child, since both parents need the most during this period, both in the case of the disease and in the case of association and education itself. One of the self-employed parents has the right to a new one, and also the possibility for the State to pay him contributions from the proportional part of the minimum wage for the care of a child who is more difficult to deal with by the age of 18 years and for two children up to the age of 6 years. The proposal introduces a slightly different bill, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, a more fair arrangement of the large family allowance, for a family with three children of 80 thousand tolars, and for a family with four and more children of 100,000 tolars. In the event of one of the parents caring for four or more children and leaving the labour market, he or she has the right to pay social security contributions from the minimum wage to the age of 10 years of the youngest child. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that these changes to the law on parental protection and family benefits are the first step in the direction of parents' decisions to increase their family, but that the measures needed for the first child's decision will continue to be carefully reconsidered and addressed as soon as possible in the national assembly and will be more difficult. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will fully support the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The latter shall have the floor of Mrs Shirca on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u18	Mr. Secretary, the coworkers have a nice greeting. You wrote Slovenian men, Slovenian men spend 32 minutes a day gardening and women spend 25 minutes a day, we are statistically, you are Slovenians the best gardeners in Europe. You are also the best fathers because of the "Daddy, activate" action, with which fathers are supposed to be better informed and take better care of children's upbringing, the football stadiums are supposed to be empty. This is how you write in a propaganda material that we are running for the right to gain an equal opportunity in Ljubljana, and we know that you have rejected the Minister at the outset, and you currently have a lot of praise even with a side announcement on this topic. I ask whether Slovenian fathers are also active enough on parental leave. Whether this propaganda material is a form of ridicule or not, I ask again: Would fathers be better fathers if this law we are facing today increased their paid parental leave allowance? In fact, here we see one of the major problems of this law, which Minister Drobnič did not open at all, even though he was trying to solve. Instead of expanding the option of paid paternity leave in the spirit of the former day, when today’s former minister, the former Member, is limited, unreasonable, and logically narrowed down by his father’s rights. In fact, there is no open possibility in the law to increase the use of paternity leave, which is relatively low to 2% in Slovenia, although we know that in Sweden they also reach 12% of the percentage of men who choose maternity leave in a way that helps and raises children and helps mothers. I'm talking about the possibility of extending paid paternity leave with the current 15 days for at least a day more. In short, it's not. In addition, in our group there is a problem with the solution when the father can use the father's leave for the child's sixth month of age for 15 days, and the remaining 75 days for the child's third year of age. Instead of stimulating the father to increase care for the child and, indirectly, also relieve the mother, Drobnic is destimulating them, as we know that this option, which was previously given flexibly up to the age of eight, is now narrowing down. And by knowing - and all the lawmakers have overlooked this - that the Dutch and Sweden allow paternity leave until the eighth years of age and the English to the fifth. This does not seem right to us, because we know that in this way the percentage slowly increases in Slovenia as well. We are also disturbed by the limited choice of previous maternity leave, which has already been discussed several times today, because there is no logic that now the possibility that women would be given, regardless of whether they are healthy, will not in short decide on the hospital, will be extended by fourteen days of absence from work before they go into labor. This does not seem logical to us, as it is a matter of different situations, the burden of the country would be, if we leave it, the same or not, because we know that the country can come cheaper if it is prevented from giving birth prematurely, which we know has greater financial consequences. We are disturbed by shorter working hours, we are disturbed by the right to goodness, which we will be able to talk about further. In short, in conclusion, Minister Drobnič seems to be one of those gardeners or those Slovenians who spend quite some time gardening and planting flowers instead of writing better laws. In the parliamentary group, we welcome certain changes to the law that have already been discussed today, and we support them at this point. However, we do not support all of these solutions, which you selectively discontinued and have so far been good.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u19	Time's up. Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 24 April. You got a checkup on the table. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendments of the SNS, LDS and SD parliamentary groups. Mr. Brenčich. Mr. Brenčič, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. This is one of the measures in the proposal for this law that practically reduces the positive nature of the measure, which is an intangible basis, as an incentive. This is said to be the measures that a sober policy could still extend when we do not burden the capacity of the state if they are positive. When the father's leave institution was established in the previous term, we had before us the well-intentionedness of this leave for the father, but limited capacity, given the country's ability after paid days. And we said that the rest of the 75 days, given the fact that we know the situation of those who are moving around, will be extremely difficult to exploit. It is very difficult to take advantage because only a few parents can afford to have such a lower salary because he had four days of unpaid leave. And we said that's why we should extend this possibility so that the father can be with the child until he enters primary school. For the first time, that we could not have a ministry at the time, and that development of a coalition or partnership for development, we wanted to reduce abstention, which is still worrying, and we said, on that basis, the father would be able to enter when the mother or the child has to go to hospital when the child is sick of a virus, etc. Then we said, practically not even Dad, most of the time he goes to work early, he comes late. Children from kindergarten in the fourth, fifth year are taken by grandmothers or mothers or grandparents, etc., and the father is practically not with the child much - evening. And why don't you take the day off once in the fourth year and the fifth year, and go for a walk or swim with that kid, I don't know if I'm skiing. I don't know why not to deepen that natural contact, the necessary contact between a father and a child. And no matter how much less we used in practice than we could have, not 75 days, but much less, we are now cutting this option short for a period of up to three years. I don't understand. This measure does not constitute any cost to the State, and in this case we are incubating it. I therefore do not understand that the incentive measures should be reduced, which should even be increased when they do not represent an additional financial burden for the country. Since I have to say honestly, for matters of family protection, family, state as such, the Republic of Slovenia is devoting a proportionate and ardent amount of public funding and it is therefore even necessary to promote measures of a non-financial nature. And so I think, for all the logic of the matter, I see no argument that I should support such a measure as that presented in Article 7 of the said bill, which practically reduces the time it takes for a father to just spend a little more of his father's leave of absence. Otherwise we'll cut him off! Let's give him 50 days of unpaid work, what a fool we do if we give him 75 days and give him no chance to use the vacation when the child needs it, even any day before school, even any day before, I don't know, going to any colony or anything. That is why I do not welcome this measure, and I certainly expect at least the Slovenian People's Party's Group not to accept it and we will support the amendment, regardless of who the proposer is. Also on the basis of the Family Initiative, which has been faced with the work of this department and this committee in the National Assembly since I remember eight years, very active: its arguments have been the same as those of us who are pursuing that it is pointless to shorten the period so that the father can spend his unpaid paternity leave for the sake of the child and also for himself, because he is a father, spend more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u22	Thank you very much. We have tabled an amendment to this article, which is essentially the same as the other two amendments. Well, it is fortunate to note that this article has remained open and that we have been able to table the amendment and that I hope that one in three will be accepted. It is an unreasonable decision by the proposer who claims to be upgrading the current law. In the debate on the working body, it was heard that the child’s period up to the third year is the most lenient period, and I think that every period of human life is noble, and this generosity gives him by his own actions. I also don't understand the decision because I anticipated that the incentive measures, as my esteemed colleague Brenčič calls them, of a intangible nature, move in the direction that parents want to strengthen the awareness that children need to develop. This measure, as it is, is directed against the use of a father's unpaid leave, because if I make a decision in the context of other determinations in a law where the proportion of care for children, in particular in a large family, is transferred to the mother, then it is clear to me that there is no need for unpaid paternity leave for a child after the third year of providing the father. But what will happen if a mother who cares for a number of families gets sick and the father can exercise that right and stay with the children? The reasons for the change in family paradigm are obvious. I am happy to note, but probably not just me, but many in this country have begun to enjoy their parental role, and they have also begun to use 15 - day paternal leave in a slightly higher percentage. Why not allow them the opportunity to monitor their children in different stages of their development and deprive them of the moment when the child first enters school, now they are being educated at the age of 6, when they go with other obligations to such life experiences, when it is good to have both of them around the child, even if the mother is always at home, but also a busy father. It seems to me that in this way we want to prove what a traditional role it is in our society, the traditional sharing of roles in our society is something we try to maintain at all costs. Because of this, because we say: at the same time it is in the case of a child's mother, it can still exercise the right to a shorter working time, we have reduced the right to a good name. We are working together to consolidate old relations, rather than to make sure that we are able to gradually approach what a country might be able to do when it is sufficiently resource-intensive, because they say that we could also miss something, and in addition to those 75 unpaid days, we may slowly increase the share of paid paternity leave. European practices are very different. In some countries, they try to play a father's role in the care and upbringing of the child and to encourage different measures than we do. We have decided to do as is stated in the bill, so now we have the opportunity to change this decision and to preserve what is written as an option in the law. No one is forced to do so, so that our fathers are not afraid of being forced into an unpaid leave of absence for the protection and care of the child. Perhaps someone among them will regret that this option is not written down because he will not be able to exercise his right even when it is necessary. In fact, we in this country are fortunate enough to have a lot to protect children of very open and prepared grandparents. What will happen when demographic policy goes in this direction in order to maintain work activity even in the older years of life? Who will then care and jump in when the mother is unable to get leave because of her work obligations? Not all employers are as understanding as I recently read in a newspaper that the newly elected director of a commercial firm in the employer maintained confidence, although she said she would go on maternity leave, but she was not suspended, even more, and then later on after giving birth to a parental leave she took advantage of a shorter job and would be able to maintain a good job and take care of the child, so that she could share the care of the child with her husband. Why aren't we doing this? Now we have to read from the newspapers statements of prominent Slovenians, from public scenes of very well-known people who claim that the low birth rate in Slovenia is the fault of ambitious women who want to study, who want to be employed and who do not want to have children. Why don't we ask ourselves if we are open in this society to some new perspectives on things, and we don't see the effort for equal treatment just in this direction, that this is about wanting to jump women in Planica, I'm sorry, I haven't seen any such public desire, even though I've tracked down some of the girls who tried to jump. But why are we going into something that means walking in the past? We have seen all of this before, we have heard all of this, we would expect, if it were to upgrade the law, that, honourable coalition Members and Members, one of the three amendments whose content is the same, you would support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u24	Thank you very much. We are talking about unpaid leave for care and not about paternity leave, as mentioned earlier. The father's leave is referred to in Article 6. The right to an unpaid transfer of leave for care and protection is to be applied for up to three years, at least as proposed in the amendment of this Act. So, then, in the earliest period of a child, when a child really needs both parents. The Ministry also notes that the practice of implementing the law so far has shown that the use of this leave in later periods is less effective or practically non-existent. It is true that the law has only been implemented for five years, but regardless, the indicators are already visible. There can be more reasons for that. I see one of the main reasons why they do not serve unpaid leave, especially because it is not paid, which means that it is also not stimulating for parents with lower incomes, because every day, without earnings, families with lower incomes can know each other better. And it usually only benefits when it's really necessary. However, when you have no alternative, it is essential that you no longer have regular leave. In particular, this leave, at least according to some data, has also been used for other purposes, not for parents to be with a child, which has been mentioned several times today. However, there is also the fact that working parents often cannot take regular leave. Many times we bring ten, twenty days over the new year and are forced to use it by the end of June or by the end of July or even by payment. That's what's going on. So all this talk about how children are going to be deprived now seems a little strange to me. At the same time, I think it is in the child's best interests to have parents involved in education and care by the third year. That is why I support the motioners and will not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you very much. A little more peace in the hall! However, Mrs. Žginer Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I believe that even the speaker in front of me knows that education does not take place just until the third year of the child’s age. Last but not least, we have institutions called the institution of education and protection. In short, I don't understand, but I really don't understand why the government has decided to deny the rights already acquired. And I will come from the words that at the beginning of the presentation, the additional explanation of the law was given by Minister Drobnič. Minister Drobnič said that this law, or government policy in this area, is also seeking more flexible forms of child protection organisation. I ask whether the deprivation of rights from 8 to 3 years of age is actually a pursuit of this objective, in short, the creation of a more flexible child protection organisation. The minister said that they were working at the Ministry to strengthen the role of the father in the family and to ensure better coordination of work and family life and to promote a more equitable sharing of family work and parenthood between both spouses and parents. I am also interested in whether this novelty, the shortening or taking of rights to fathers after a decision by which the children's age will actually benefit from the leave for the care and protection of the child, the pursuit of this goal. I've been reading the magnetogram of today's session, the words mag. Oh, you little thing. I'm sure you don't. I am convinced that it would actually be reasonable and useful to support this amendment. This amendment, which actually casts a state on a state like that of the law that has been in force so far. For the purpose of harmonising the whole of social and professional life, it is also useful [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u27	Please, only Mrs. Žgajner Tavš has the floor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u28	It is appropriate that the right to leave for the care and protection of the child may be exercised by the age of eight and shall not be violated. [[...]] At least that's how I understood, Minister, even your words or goals, which are recorded in the bill itself. The law was supposed to be good for a better family policy, to favor a greater role or to promote a greater role of fathers in the care and protection of children. But I'm sorry, the deprivation of rights already acquired - I don't understand the point, the minister or I don't understand the pursuit, the real pursuit of this goal. Finally, today we have heard from one speaker before me that the use of leave in later years is less effective. This is supposed to be the data they received from the Ministry. I am interested in the criteria or criteria on which the Ministry has concluded that the use of leave for the care and protection of the father’s child in later years, i.e. after the third year of age, is less effective. I heard another catastrophic thing today. I've heard that the presence of parents is inversely proportional to their age. That parents are actually needed when children are older, only when children need money from them. Don't make fun of me! Well, if you've started from this point of view in the preparation of this marriage, don't joke, Minister, I'm really asking you, in this place. I'm sure this change won't bring, I don't know, positive effects that I believe you expect. You expect not least an increase or increase in fertility. Minister, I'm going to say this again, and I'm going to ask you, limiting by the third year means lowering the positive climate in the decision to give birth to a child. You know, in doing so, I will remind you of another matter that has happened with this law on the working body, when it was also a violation of the right to make decisions. At that time, mothers lost their right to decide when to go on maternity leave. That's unacceptable, too, in my opinion. So, Minister, once again from this city, I ask you to reconsider and, lastly, give your support to this amendment. It is a vacation, for the care and protection of a child that can be used by fathers, after the current law until the age of eight, a vacation that is unpaid. The country has no costs with this, it is a voluntary decision of the fathers, I believe in the spirit of a positive family climate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings, everyone, again. Look, I wanted to check out this disqualification theory among people, and I ran into this answer: "Listen, what am I going to live from if I go on vacation, and I'm not getting any money for it!" Actually, I didn't even think about it in the first minute, but it's true. Look, we need to understand that young people, those at the very beginning, have, for the first time, low wages, secondly have great ambitions, thirdly, they want to ensure the standard, equivalent to those of their surroundings as soon as possible. It is true that there was no special great will for the use of this leave. This leave is very commendable immediately after delivery, and then, with years away from this first happy income, it is a bit of a drawback. I have also heard that many of these parents, who have this possibility and who have a relatively good standard, benefit from this leave to obtain even in the construction of the house, or at some "fush", or in the short term very much from this material base. I agree that this society is probably too much of a consumer society, the family is no longer or is too little of a family being exposed as one good, as something that we are people in the world, and we are not sufficiently concerned with this parental responsibility, in fact, of this happiness that happens to us if we have a child. All too much, all too much, I stress, we deal with acquisitions, with standards, with the desire not to be worse than neighbors, etc. So, not only did I look at one side, but I or unfortunately heard it, which actually stabbed me, because at the end of the day it's really puzzled with logic, but the real situation is whether we want to admit it or not. We also received similar information from the Ministry and good, but the decision is yours and ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye. When we adopted the material to amend this law, we could see in the entry in the second chapter that it is a fundamental goal to implement the amendments to this law to find a solution to the undernumber of births, which is to turn into a strategy that will permanently increase the number of births in Slovenia. Today, when we listen to this debate on the amendment to Article 7, this debate is, of course, very much linked to Article 6, which speaks of paternity leave. All we can talk about here today is an amendment which is linked to an article that discusses leave for the care and protection of the child. If we add to this an article that we have amended on the Committee, this is the abolition of the goodies, then we can say that all three measures go in the opposite direction. For if a variety of different conditions are needed today and have them in a positive sense resolved when the family is planned and the baby is born, it has been said many times today that a wider range of measures that are not solely related to this law would have to create this positive climate. Today we create individual stones in this mosaic. How do these stones work, whether they fit into this mosaic or whether the story in this mosaic with these stones is completely asymmetric? In my opinion, this story is very, very asymmetric. We have seen, when we have read the justifications both for Article 6 and Article 7, in which this amendment has been very cheaply explained; therefore, it is the first three years that are the richest period and therefore this leave should be reduced from eight to three years. Reasons based on family events - none. The family initiative gave us a nice explanation on the committee that, if there is a short period for paternity leave from eight to three years, the likelihood that fathers will benefit from this vacation will not be much greater. And this vacation is unpaid, so my father's vacation is unpaid. And we do not allow us to have flexibility in terms of the situation here, and Mr Minister, you guarantee that we will have flexibility in the labour market, with very difficult conduct, such as both parents in the family, how to treat your child for his own well-being. On the other hand, you do not tell how income security will be ensured while ensuring the flexibility of employment. These are two elements that must have a simultaneous response when we talk about these solutions. Of course, when we're talking about parental leave and child protection, it's part of the holiday that's paid, and we've been very well able to hear that it's a series of sensitive events that aren't, unfortunately, I've given these periods to my family and not only been connected to the first three years of child development. Unfortunately, it is impossible to predict that it is necessary to have a child’s leave of absence and protection in view of the child’s development only in the first three years, as events also tend to move forward because life is dynamic and must therefore be answered very flexibly. And, Mr. Minister, I don't understand why a contraction of eight to three years. If we can share the child’s care with both parents, then let us also share our role in the family with both parents so that together they can plan the best times for how these two holidays can be used, unfortunately we cannot change the father’s vacation today, but we can change this period for the care and protection of the child. When I'm listening here today, I'd say we've missed a lot of times in the development of our own children. We have missed many periods because we have very different experiences and behaviours about what is happening in these periods. We can also have very different ones because the dynamics and development of different children are different. But that we are not prepared to hear that we are not prepared to listen to different practices and to bring good practices into the legislation that this government has so many good wishes for is, of course, incomprehensible to me; an incomprehensible expression of parental mistrust that we are taking these leave to make material use of ourselves in no way. I can't agree to this thesis. And with the same thesis, we have abolished the virtues because it is at the expense of the children, of course, from a bad attitude toward the child, parents have the ambition to improve their material conditions. I don't think this logic holds up for Slovenian parents and I think it's here that we're creating a negative climate instead of a positive climate, a bad signal that we're releasing into Slovenian society in family planning. And if, Minister, you yourself are talking about the fact that many very important elements need to be fulfilled in order to plan births, it seems to me from this point of view extremely important that you also listen to the fact that flexibility should be one of those elements of this positive climate that is welcome for our families. And in this respect, I will support the adoption of such amendments, and in this regard also express my support for this amendment, which extends the period of leave for the care and protection of the child from 3 to 8 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I have mentioned several times earlier when presenting the views of the Group that the Minister has decided to cut or withdraw the option of choosing - not only in this place, but also in others; or that he has stuck somewhere, where we do not understand why it was necessary. Moreover, it did not explain or at least argued the reasons. And here he shrinked, narrowed down some flexibility, some choice up to the eighth year, the choice of leave to care and the protection of the child, while in other places he abolished certain options that were given as choices and as adjustments. It's absolutely unclear why. Since 2001, when this individual right and the non-transferable right to paternity leave have also been introduced, now I am talking about paternity leave, the situation has begun to improve. Since 1998, when there were less than 1% of men who decided on paternity leave, until 2001, when we arrived at 2%. Slowly, these decisions would certainly have changed if, as I mentioned earlier, the Minister had decided to extend those 15 days of paid paternity leave for at least a few days. I know that this would be a greater burden for the country because men receive at least 17% more of their wages than women and, of course, women's maternity leave for the state of savings. But still; in short, you were not in good spirits. But it was good will to reduce some possible flexibility. Mr. Secretary, you say you know what's good for children. But you don't have to know what's good for your family. And for the family, this was an opportunity when the decision to care and protect the child was extended by choice, after adjusting to a particular situation, it was good. Why do the Dutch leave it behind, why do they leave it to Sweden, why do they leave the possibility until the fifth year of flexible decision-making to the English? I don't understand. You send and travel to Denmark, you organize trade unions and other development partnership trips, you look at the situation, you come back and you work your way, because they are obviously not good enough, although they are the goal and the point you would like to achieve in this partnership to achieve the reform goals. You don't read the analysis. The analysis is huge. When we - Mr Drobnič, you were a Member, you gave enormously today no more amendments or targets - they were very much benevolent - I examined them, all of them that you have invested in the then opposition coalition, today there is no spirit or hearing about these enlargements, except in certain parts that also have certain ideological backgrounds. In short, there's a lot of analysis. That's when we faced these analyses and calculations. This time there are a few lines in the explanation of the law barely written. But let me tell you one thing. When they were working hard in Europe, and they were working hard on what measures were needed to ensure that fathers also opted for such paternity leave or for that parental leave under the care and protection of the child. A number of analyses have been made and, indeed, be it German, but more or less consistent with other countries - to answer what measures men would need to take, according to men's assessment, and which forms should be ensured that they more often interfere with the possibility and right of leave for the care and protection of the child. In the first place, 70% of men said that if there were economic stimulation, it would be true if you were paid. Secondly, 52% if such measures were not to have a negative impact on careers. The negative effects on careers; of course, these negative consequences are faced by women when, due to an uncontinuous approach to work, they have more difficult access to the labour market or to a stimulated and career-friendly environment. It is interesting that in a high place they also place the guarantee of a return to an old job, which, of course, is at risk, and that I do not talk about what will happen to the measure that we have taken and cannot take anymore today - which you have accepted, I apologize, and today we cannot correct it when the law extends the right to work after a reduced working time until the age of six. We know that, after the present law, the possibility to reach the third year of age, I am talking about the possibility of shorter working hours, which, theoretically, I think, could theoretically result in a situation where a woman in two children, when a mother is in two children, can work with reduced working hours for 12 years. If she's 18 years old. Do you have any idea what a woman who's going to have a shorter uncontinuous job is going to suffer her career? In what way, after 12 or 18 years, if she has three or more children and will somehow plan them to re-enter the full-time working environment? Will this work environment want her? Isn't that the way out of the labor market dangerous and so on? What's her productivity? What's her knowledge? What's her progress, what's the possibility of another job? That's the problem. I just want to point out that the reason that we heard about today in this survey that you're being watched by the outsiders, literally that's what the survey says, is very low, 15% of the men are "do not worry" or the neighbor is looking at them sideways or not if he decides to take such a step. Analysis needs to be viewed and answered, not to be self - conscious without answers. Minister, you have repeatedly insisted on your own right to goodness, which was exemplary, proper and for women, especially at the beginning of working decisions, in establishing a career, useful, and could decide whether or not to return to work sooner if it was in certain situations. You stopped it if it wasn't used enough to take advantage of just 0.15%. Of course it wasn't used! Who promoted it? Maybe you didn't know that either. Some of them made up their minds. By being able to compensate and direct their shortfall, which they decided to return to work in another area, in order to give them a good opportunity to pay for child protection, housing and so on. Here you said that you are not talking about stimulating the good environment so that in Slovenia there will be greater fertility, greater cohesion and better measures for family life. In short, it was an option, even in Article 7, to at least let people make their own decisions with flexibility, and you took that possibility away from them, which is not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Meanwhile, a third group of young visitors and visitors joined us on the stand. Nice greeting and welcome to the Slovenian Parliament. However, we are continuing the debate on Article 7 and the upcoming amendments. Mr. Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dearly-respected, well-respected on the balcony! The deprivation of rights already acquired is, it seems, a game played by this government and government parties, even when it comes to rights that do not require financial consequences, but rights that are, in their own words, free of charge. When I listened to some of the speakers, mainly from the largest two government parties, I was actually appalled. Someone said it was an unpaid vacation, but who's gonna take it? In this case, you know, it's either love for the child or greed. It depends on, say, the love of money. This depends on each individual’s choice. But I think every reasonable person will choose to love his own child. And last but not least, as long as we leave 8 years as it has been arranged so far and as the Slovenian National Party's amendment suggests, this maternity leave will be able to be divided, perhaps one day per month into eight years and it will not be financially known if you look through money, as it will be for three years and it will have benefits, I don't know, 15 days in a given month. And when someone said that a child needs both parents by the age of three. You know, all the research, and I think the minister knows them, too, suggests that by the third year, the child needs mainly - not only, but especially the mother. Even when it hits 99.9%, I believe you've looked at the children's psychology book, scream, "Mama," not "Daddy." We are fathers for education mainly until the third year forward. And when you said that since the third year forward, a child needs parents just to come home and get the money. I'm the father of a 7-year-old girl myself, and I can tell you that she hasn't come to me once before and said, "Give me the money!" But given the social reforms and the economic reforms you are implementing, the child will need both parents for money by the age of 35, not just the third, as you explain. Of course, I will be happy to support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Prevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! In fact, we are dealing with a very important topic today, not only important, but I think it's also very sensitive. Both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the coalition have taken great care of improving the situation of the family and, last but not least, of raising fertility for one of the most important purposes. I wonder what this government coalition, which I also belong to, has done in this area in these years. Personally, unfortunately, I must conclude that the Ministry of Family and Social Affairs has not been sufficiently effective in improving the situation of families and raising birth rates in these two years. In particular, the larger families, I am talking to them, expected much more from this government, and also this proposal for amendments to this law, which we are considering today, I do not think it can give them any particular optimism. It is true that the bill extends certain rights, which are certainly beneficial for parents and not least welcome, but unfortunately, the bill also limits some of the rights already acquired to parents and, in fact, this is today's speech, and this is, in some ways, the amendments that are being tabled today. In fact, it is about rights in this area, and in the area of parenthood, which, after all, parents have already had, they are somehow losing them by this law. In any case, the most important change in the eyes will be the father's leave, which has already been mentioned several times today, whose possibility of use up to the age of eight is now reduced to three years. Actually, I'm asking, I'm really asking the honestly proposing man why this is necessary. As a matter of fact, I have not received an argument from the proposer so far. I don't know if it's really just a principle because it's about using unpaid leave, which is to say, some extra costs don't go away. Today, the word flexibility has been mentioned many times, so to speak, elsewhere in other areas we are talking about some flexible behavior, and I think that this law, which is so sensitive, requires great flexibility or giving some of the widest possible possibilities. Regrettably, the amendment of the law also strengthens the mother's right until the start of the maternity leave. In the case of health problems, the mother could now, under the existing law, begin maternity leave 42 days before the predicted date of birth and the proposal only infringes that right for 28 days. Again, I ask the proposer how he imagines that, with such restrictions, he will contribute to greater fertility. And let me mention one more matter that will be most in the eyes of this law in relation to this issue that we are dealing with, this is a supplement for large families. On Saturday night, I saw on TV that they had met, I think somewhere in Dolenjska, large families under the auspices of Anja's fund. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u39	Mr Prevec, if you please, this is not a general debate, I would like you to focus on Article 7 and the amendments, if possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u40	Yeah, I just wanted to say that this allowance for big families isn't really fair either. It is said that this law recognizes large families only up to four, but no further. It just means that after this four - child marriage, the family gets 100,000 and the ten - child family gets 100,000. Is that fair? It's not fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I'll read everyone I've ever had on the list to make it easier for you to organize. Kumer, Friend, Mag. Squeak, Gulič, Brenčič, Uhan and Janc. Well, Mr. Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. I did not intend to come forward with this law today, but in view of the discussion that was as an argument on the proposals, why this amendment would not be accepted, it encouraged me to call back to those who are practical in this sense that we have families, we have large families - personally three generations in the family. So somehow I have a feeling that the proponents and all those who advocate the reduction or abolition of this right from 8 years to 3 years, you have no idea what the family is. I'm gonna be a little sharper so I'm a little more visual. You don't have experience with family life, you don't deal with family in the full sense of the word, and you don't deal with young people. For if they knew all this, then of course they would know that children by the third year are not only the parents' concern and children do not only need parents to learn how to speak and walk, but, as I hear many times in this Parliament, there are many other things. What else do parents need? At least for what some argued at the end, for some material goods. So family life, if we really want to build family life and some partnership in society, then the family doesn't end up in one cell, but this family life, this partnership life is extended a little bit wider. Therefore, I strongly reject that by this proposal, by means of this law you prevent flexibility, that we as a family partner, as parents, decide and choose when some of us can, under the so-called "bonity", benefit and adapt our employee, their work obligations with family life and with the commitment of their time to children in the family. Once again, this proposal - neither one nor one argument today - I have not heard who would "drink water" to reduce this right, which is enshrined in the existing law. One smart rational proposal! I think that the one who was doing this proposal got up with his left leg, was in a bad mood, and just something was dripping at that moment, and that's how it has to be.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Again, I warn you to stick to the agenda and the point, and I also ask you to be more respectful of the one who has the word, namely, about the silence in the hall. But Mr. Friend has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President! So the Ministry of Labour, Social and Family advocates greater fertility, even the coalition contracts you have written down, but you impose such incomprehensible laws as today. [[But you could listen if I'm talking.]] Follow also the guidelines of the Roman Catholic Church in some way. He's very grateful, he's really not here, and he's not here, so I'd be glad if he was. I would like to tell the minister that if he succeeds in convincing a young family to actually create a family circle, then he has to offer something for it. And giving the conditions to the family, of course, if it doesn't cost anything, it's the easiest thing to do, but still, you take these rights to the family. You want to make a woman a housemaid, tie her up there for a stove, and humbly take the children to mass every Sunday, walk out of the house as little as possible, and of course take care of what her mission is. That's the point, apparently. Reducing rights is your specialty at the Ministry, you might say. It's happening all over again; it's happened in asbestos law, it's happened in fighters, it's now in this law. But maybe the minister didn't choose the right source, maybe he should have chosen another resource for himself when he could have chosen which Ministry of Savings would have been more suitable for him, he's a specialist for these matters. Of course, some people who talk about family feel like you're judging a man by yourself. It's not appropriate for us to really act like we're talking like we're talking about a dog's nest, but I'm not gonna mention that I'm not gonna hurt anyone. Every parent wants to be, of course, a father, at home with a child, and I don't believe that any of us who are ashamed of our fathers for taking a free vacation or maybe a maternity leave, I just don't know people like that. It would be unreasonable if we were between us. I would like to emphasise something else; what the speakers have also stressed before me. It is also possible to protect women's interests in this context. Some of us are more successful in our business careers and in fact want to be at work first and thus maintain our position, but perhaps none of you have thought about it! And why shouldn't fathers participate in this part of the family when they can? To talk about this, of course, is nice to go skiing with your family, etc. - That's all true if the family has money. If this ministry, led by Mr Drobnič, were to seek these guidelines, they would take a little look at Finland, and these cases have a model solution, and in the end, the most developed European country is this. I would really ask that we do not speak such nonsense because Slovenia listens to us, and even if you are going to church, listen to the sermons, and you may find it easier to press the button.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u46	Mr President, thank you for your word. Messengers and Members! Today, of course, very much is said by fathers in this national assembly, and I will start as a politician myself. I quote the website of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Janša News Archive, 3 December 2004: "The government will strive to improve the conditions for the formation and development of families, and increase fertility." A few months later, similar news: "Increasing fertility is Mr Janša's first goal." Of course, it was at a time when Mr Janša had not yet found a strategy for development or other documents in drawers and, of course, I do think that fertility is the first objective. In the meantime, Minister Petty Officer. Minister Drobnič has proposed a series of measures and we are discussing some of them today, which will not be the development of family policy, but will be a major breakdown of family policy. And what is Article 7 and so much more Article 6, which unfortunately cannot be amended, is, of course, in my opinion, totally contrary to the good family policy that we have drawn up over the past years. Although I do not know why another ministry, in fact, is now going to Denmark and Sweden to develop, monitor and guide the development strategy of Slovenia. It might be good for someone from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to go there, and, of course, to see that the applicable right and both rights in force, both in terms of paternity leave and in terms of child care and protection in Sweden, the Netherlands and elsewhere, can be used by the age of eight. And someone today said that because of the lower wages or because the salary is low, people don't take advantage of it. That is why it is necessary to let this happen by the age of eight, because perhaps in the first three years after the child’s birth, in the first three years, of course, when people are also starting their careers, many of them could not take advantage of it. I don't know, Mr. Minister, percentages, gentlemen from New Slovenia and some from SDS, what you're trying to tell us today. The effect of this, public finance, will be none. Everything you do to make a good one, by means of state measures, the accelerated role of fathers will be stopped or stopped and the promotion of paternity or the common concern of parents for leave and for the care and protection of children will simply stop. The only possible logical explanation of what you are doing and of course came from some of your explanations is that when a law is passed today that will stop your father's leave and leave for the care and protection of the child at the age of three so that you can stop your four-year-old child who will say to you, "Daddy, stay home because you have leave," you can say that the law no longer allows me to do so. And, of course, gentlemen, that's something I don't understand. Why is it that this right, which cost no one nothing, is only a good opportunity to strengthen fatherhood so that we can strengthen our common concern, that you can stop it? I didn't have this opportunity myself, because at the time my children were so old, it was simply that there was no right in marriage and there was no harm and I'm sorry, I would like to take advantage of several days of this vacation. I see that, in view of the explanations we have heard today, there is simply no way for some to take advantage of the right that has been given. What kind of family policy is that? This is not a family policy, this is a breakdown of family policy for me and I regret that Minister Drobnic is called Minister for Family, Social Affairs and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u48	Mr. Vice President, Mark Pavlich! Dear fellows and fellows! In fact, there is not much left to say, but what a matter must be repeated. Indeed, this law is also one, or this article, is one of those who speaks of restricting freedom, about distrust of citizens, about declaring of course the work of citizens, so I will say, for a certain period of time, and some other things could be found. Apparently, this isn't about money, but it's about putting those 75 days down to the first three years. After the third obvious father, we are no longer needed and can leave the family nest and leave. I have a slightly different memory. I have children of old, they are both of age, and they still need me; not just for money - I don't want to give it away, but just for other things. People live in something, say, a solid environment, we are connected, and whenever there are crises, we need each other. And surely Father does not perform his functions until the third year of his life, before that. If I remember, let's say, when there were some serious things, of course, she was called to her mother first, but if the crisis was very bad it was "light." At the time, I knew that something had to go quickly, that something was wrong. I don't know what other people's experience is. However, I am glad that the old law still applies, because if it did not apply, I would not be able to meet Mr Zvonko Černač there in the hallway with a child who is over three years old and I do not know what Mr Školč is still doing here. He usually has the habit of carrying out his parental duties at that time. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] We are talking about freedom, about a person being able to decide for himself when to devote his time to his children, to assess for himself when it is that he himself, with all the responsibility attached to that freedom, will determine whether he will serve money or abuse or use it. [[...]] There's been a lot of talk about how to abuse it. All sorts of things are abused, but then we can do, of course, a completely limited, purely rusty, purely to the stove chained state - not just women. Also, the fact that 28 days before the birth is due to take leave is one such matter. Apparently, he or she is a designated minister, the proposer states that from 28 days on, a woman is no longer able to make her own decisions about whether she is healthy or feeling well, whether she feels bad about going to work, if she feels that she is in need, or if she is capable of doing so. Basically, the kind of restrictions that citizens take away from us. This paragraph in Article 7 should therefore be deleted. That's it. I hope that you are so reasonable and reasonable that you can see exactly what this is about and leave the citizens their dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thank you very much. A fundamental explanation of this measure by the proposer was that this measure is aimed primarily at something that is particularly good for the child. In a family that we understand even more now, those of us who already have grandchildren, because we now see what we may have missed at the time, but the situation is, when a person is young, that kind of burden on his head. Family is never one-sided, one-sided road. The best thing for a child is to see in a parent, in a mother, in a father, in a grandfather, in a grandmother happy, satisfied, relaxed man. And since the family is never, never can be a one-way street, in the family policy, at the head of the department of the department, it makes no sense to give a firm command to this family, an ultimate command. Therefore, it is a pity that we are deleting something that has been adopted, that the family as a whole, or father or mother, has accepted as very positive, acceptable, and the other is not. But why are we taking this option? Look, he encouraged me to show up again, Mr. Veršnik. At the same time, the Minister for the Family is the Minister of Labour and one of his priorities in family policy must also be how it preserves the acceptability of parents in the living labour market. And when we gave birth to a period in which Father can use this leave in the previous term, we also said, it is necessary to establish sustainability in the employer through the use of this leave. I've spent too long in the real sector, and I know there's not a lot of reserves there when one worker is not at work today, it's very hard to get in right away with someone else. No backup. Therefore, I do not know, it is much wiser if the father had the opportunity to extend the employer’s sustainability status to seven years, or to burden a specific employer for three years, who may have such a industry that he can’t even do so. And that is why I do not understand this because, in the same breath, this minister, in the same capacity, is obliged to judge such a measure in a multifaceted manner, and therefore it is a shame that we command something that has been given as a free choice. For the family, this is not a measure of an encouraging nature that is positive. The same was the case in Article 4, since it was pointless that we had taken the free choice of the mother expecting the birth of the pregnant woman, because some of the heat of the summer was on public transport, which also gave rise to this additional 14-day deadline, whether she had a difficult profession on the "salter" and so on, that the possibility was given to sacrifice for the benefit of the child also 14 days prior to the beginning of maternity leave, realizing that she might have a young grandmother who would be able to enter that then would be much easier and for the sake of the child to go to work 14 days earlier. That is why such measures by the Minister-in-Office, who runs the policy, creates a family protection policy, is unacceptable, and almost everyone would have expected it sooner in the debate, sometimes it also happened that there were so many arguments in the debate that we also said by the proposer that the government did not object. I think that the matter has matured with everything said that the Minister would maintain so much wisdom or seek so much wisdom, but he did so, and this amendment could, because it is a good amendment, regardless of the proposal, because he just wants to preserve what has been established as a positive one, and such an amendment can be supported practically by most than a good approach to improving the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Chairman. Hello, everyone in the hall. The law improves in so many segments that I really see no reason to get caught up in Article 7 and that fathers would benefit from unpaid leave until the third year. Some people would make a desert out of one tree and cut down the whole forest. Indeed, the government predicted that it would be good for fathers to benefit from an unpaid leave of two months and a half to three years of age. It's not a violation of rights, it's still a chance for fathers to take advantage of it within three years. And look, if the mother has the only chance to take advantage of this right to care for the child within one year, I don't know why fathers wouldn't choose to take advantage of this right until the third year. When does Dad remember he's a father? Only at the age of eight or at the age of fifteen? Oh, Jesus! Mr. Chairman of the Committee, I'd like to ask you, somewhere I've heard that so far only 15% of fathers, a colleague who says even 0.15% of fathers have benefited from this opportunity [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u53	Please, only Mrs. Uhan has the floor. Don't turn our parliament into British.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u54	Then you can answer me if my information is wrong, but only so many fathers were aware that it had the option or that it could benefit and have taken advantage of it. The child needs the whole life of his parents, not just up to 3 to 8 years of age, but only at any time in a different way, especially with advice, with their values, not with money or just with the presence of home. True, you will be able to attach to me all those who have children that the most parents need children and their presence in the early years. At that time, the most diseases, the most medical examinations, the systematic examinations, school admissions, these are not sick, then the father has to take the day off or the mother's day off, so I really don't think we're getting caught up in this Article 7. It's also right that your father goes to school for a systematic check-up, a preschool entry. Why just moms? And why would only mothers cook at home or go to mass with them, such as a fellow member of the SNS? Dads just can't play their part if you're only fathers then, in those days that the country or the social work center will prescribe for you, but you're basically a father your whole life and it's right to be aware of that. I am very sorry that some Members are replacing a career or replacing it with the role of fatherhood or motherhood and that you think this is not working together. I am also the mother of four children and also a Member of Parliament, and I am proud of both functions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday a similar debate on cooperatives lasted several hours, with an interesting thesis, when we were all very similar to each other on equal conditions, today we are talking about parental protection, family benefits. This is an extremely important topic and all that I myself have read in this paper, which is available to me as a Member, all that I have listened to by fellow Members, both from the opposition and from the position, I also have my own opinion from the local environment where I come from. Family policy is one value, one important value of this society, one basic cell for me, which may not have been given enough attention in the past. And today we have certain consequences that are quite visible, but not only demographics that are very concerned about Slovenia, but also Slovenian weddings are no longer that in fact we are trying to correct certain exams of the past bad time, and family policy is also an important topic, as enshrined in the coalition treaty and of course the increase in fertility and all that is involved, it seems to me to be extremely important for this government and for future generations, that perhaps we are just correcting some mistakes that have been in the past, perhaps too little attention and that we are moving forward. This is what we have committed ourselves to, and as a member of the coalition, I also want to, and I am trying to cooperate with my work. And, of course, large families can certainly be spoken of in our Parliament by a colleague of Prevc Michael, who has a nine-member, a colleague of Kumer, who reportedly has an eight-member, and these two Members probably have quite a bit of experience in family politics. I am sure that these are quite flagsome in the Slovenian space, quite high and certainly high among Members. However, their debate I listened to was quite similar to one and the other, despite the fact that one came from the coalition and the other from the opposition. And that's why I'm a little surprised by the change in the rights acquired, which, in my opinion, has no financial implications. This argument, which I would understand, is that by doing so we are reducing certain rights, abuses and so on and so forth, I would understand. Okay, let's shorten it to 3. Why three? Whether it's a finger or an analysis, I don't know. There's a new milestone that doesn't convince me. I think it would be right, no matter where this amendment comes from, it does not burden me in this case, that the government would be so obedient and finally listen to the debate in this House, and say yes, because we may have made mistakes here, make a bit of a correctional exam and move on. This would be a precedent perhaps in the National Assembly of this time, but it would still be one move that Members would also make, which would be quite appropriate, and I think is quite appropriate, so that they could also accept it. At the time we live, I think that these family values are particularly neglected, the pace of work in all jobs is increasing, it's getting longer and the family is becoming more than it is at the edge. Unfortunately, this is not only between Members of Parliament, but also between Slovenians and Slovenians. That is why I feel that the deprivation of rights is a poor journey for Slovenian families, young families and all those who would benefit from these opportunities. That's why I think we're talking about everything we're talking about, when we have to talk about family policy on some public stage, let's say what we're going to do, but at this point, I don't see a step forward, but even a little step back. I would therefore ask the Minister to explain in the end the matter that he is trying to convince me, as a Member, that it is indeed good, that this is a step forward for family policy and that it is drinking water, that I will say in the Posavina and that he will somehow convince me of everything. I think if you think it's good for the baby, it won't convince me. There's probably something else to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I'd like to give my opinion for a moment. It seems to me that we have only discussed the exercise in this House as passionately and engagedly as we are today, whether it is 3 or 8 years. When it comes to not such important matters, we are obviously very happy to be able to talk a lot, but at least one advantage is. I didn't know, and today I've heard how few fathers actually decide on this option if what was written in the media is less than 2%. And that's worrisome. It is said that in this family policy something needs to be done in order for fathers to be prepared to take advantage of this opportunity offered by legislation. However, if there is something written in the law that is not necessary or possible to use, then it could be said that there is an empty promise, a dead letter on paper that does not produce its effect. And maybe it would be good for the minister to tell us when this 2% would be useful. I suppose, at the very beginning, it is said that when children are really the smallest and when help is most needed. Later, if he does not make a decision at that time, he is unlikely to make a decision at the age of eight. However, I am very pleased that the biggest opposition party has thus begun to take care of Slovenian family policy. Since you've talked about everything, I should be allowed to mention something. When the law on income was passed, the aid was taxed on a one-time basis for large families. And we needed a lot to change that in amending the law, that this aid was now untaxed again, that is what the family initiative knows, and that now this amount has also increased slightly, but again this is a proposal that it needs to be increased. I think that the government coalition and the government alone and the minister will follow this initiative and that, with the next amendment, they will propose a change in this direction so that these proposals will be followed. That, or three or eight years, is probably not such a big dilemma that we talk so much about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u59	Thank you. The word has magic. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u60	Thank you. It really depends on what angle we're looking at, whether it's a marginal problem, or whether it's something worth discussing. I believe it is worth discussing because it is about establishing a new perspective on family policy and the relationship between the father and the mother in the care and protection of the child. We did not, in shortening the time in which 75 days of unpaid leave for care and protection of the child can be taken advantage of by the father, have been touched. This is a question of recording the use of this right. Since both employers and the Centre for Social Work are obliged to keep records of the exploitation of this right, it is also possible for some, of course, as an argument, that it is only easier to monitor for three years than it is for eight years. But given that we have recently adopted a law that centralises registers of exploitation of certain rights that combines these registers, this will probably not be too much of a problem. Earlier, they will have problems with social work centres and employers, while the old rights will be governed by new justice because the validity of this will be different. But what I wanted to point out in particular is that I am aware that this 15-day paternal leave, 15 days which is a non-transferable right, is a right that has been established in the law that is in force in the law and because of stereotyped roles and because of the opinion of the environment to which one of my fellow Members referred, is difficult to apply. For me, this right is therefore a step backwards because we are giving a public signal that something is unacceptable or socially irrelevant to us. And we are violating the right to choose. The fact that this case has not been put into effect is due to the fact that we have much more opportunities or a much more stable practice, that women take care of care and protection. But I've talked about grandparents before. As long as it seems socially acceptable to us that a man's career is built, and for a woman it doesn't matter, then we'll find such things irrelevant. I am talking about the signals we give from this city, and I am talking about signals that we are also giving, given the practice in other European countries. I am aware that they do not elsewhere in Europe have so well-managed some of the things we have legally regulated in our current law and that many people are obliged to take unpaid leave because they do not have such a long statutory period in which they can take care of their offspring. But this does not mean that if from the point of view of NGOs, from the point of view of the users of this right, this reduction has been accepted for 3 years as a bad one so as not to allow it as an opportunity. However, it is always possible for an individual to be left to take advantage of it or not. It is certainly important for us, as candidates, that this right should remain, but I would like to hear, I would really like to hear some strong argument why the government does not want to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Jože Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I think that everything today has been overly hard and even soft words spoken because of the proposed amendment or because of these three controversial or indisputable eight years. But I'd still like to look here at what the actual situation is, how this vacation was used. If I get the data and listen to the Ministry, then I see that most of this leave has actually been used for up to three years. On the other hand, I would very much like to and have been taught by psychologists who deal with child psychology, and everyone swears that the child needs the parents most during the tenderest childhood years, it is said there until the third year of age. Today we are on the back of the family of this value or because we want the family to become a value, on the back of the family in fact "Kalamo" is a hard and Greek political pole. And I don't think that's worthy of this national council. If we are talking about three or eight years, in short, of this amendment, then we must all somehow simulate and look at a family with one child. If we look at a family with two, three or more children, then this parent who will benefit from this vacation will be present at the age of eight, and at the age of eight, the second, third, fourth, child will not benefit from only one child’s leave for the one who was last born. I think if we're fathers, we're fathers of all our children. Of course, I cannot accept the claim that parents should still be around their child by the age of 35. Yeah, this kid's gonna be 35, at least I want a father or a mother, at least three times. I believe in the efforts of this government, and I also believe that it is impossible for the family to be revalued overnight, that it is a process and that it is a process that may last for a decade, and it requires a lot of good will and good intentions in particular from all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you very much. My word, Mr. Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I would, at least that is how I understood from the debate before me of some Members and Members, and I would like to try again, and we will try to explain very slowly why this amendment, what its purpose is and what we want the applicants to achieve with it. It is simply that we want to restore the situation that this law introduces back to the prevailing state of affairs, by means of this amendment, we want to ensure that fathers have the right to choose parental leave or leave of absence for care. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u65	Please, on the left side of the auditorium.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u66	With this amendment, we want to achieve that fathers have the option or the right to choose. I would really like to be able to finish this sentence. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u67	Please, Mr. Anderlich. But I warned you on the left side of the hall on my side.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u68	I would like to say a sentence to the end because I have learned from the debate that some do not know what we want to achieve with this amendment, because their interpretations were either completely illogical or incomprehensible. With this amendment, we want to give fathers the right to choose a leave of absence for the care and protection of children up to the age of eight. We do not take or limit justice, but we give the right to an eighth year, which does not mean that those who want can benefit from this right by the third year of their child's age if they want to. We give them the right to choose. This is what the Slovenian National Party considers to be controversial, what this coalition is doing, what this Minister is doing. The Minister takes over the rights already acquired. That's controversial, and that's unacceptable. Last but not least, Mrs Uhanova, you yourself have found that children do not need parents just and only until the third year of the child's age. And with this amendment, which we are putting into the Slovenian National Party, we are actually following that children do not need parents only and only until the third year. They need them longer, and I won't say until I'm eight. They need them practically for the rest of their lives, one way or another. But we give them a chance, we give fathers a choice.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u69	Thank you. Mrs. Uhan, you want a replica or then a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u70	I just wanted to say that a child really needs a father and a mother and not just up to three or eight years, and in fact, we don't even oppose this amendment. We would like this right to be exercised more by parents, and by these concrete fathers. That's the problem. Or the difference between you and me between your thoughts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. At the outset, I must say that I am very pleased that in New Slovenia, which I think is also the wishes of the Minister, do not oppose our amendment and, of course, I will also follow very closely from the vote when we vote on this. Last but not least, I will repeat perhaps two sentences from my colleague Žgajareva; we give a choice, and this is also the right of every family to decide when it is appropriate for a father to take this unpaid leave either by the third year or by the eighth year. Last but not least, Mrs one of the ruling parties, ask yourself, probably also because of your ability, probably also because of the provision of the law that has been in force so far, you have succeeded in this great goal of being a mother of four children and at the same time a Member of Parliament. Maybe now that you're shortening this time, where your father's gonna have to take advantage of it by the time he's three years old, it's not gonna work. I must say, I wouldn't have signed up to that word if someone hadn't told me that we only wanted to talk a lot about two things, minor things, a drill and a paternal vacation. A nice comparison, a nice comparison to compare fatherhood, which is at least a very important investment for me, with a drill that someone likes for health or need, and sometimes swallows. And I believe, and now I also see how much you actually have in the government and in the ministry, not least that New Slovenia is an extended deadline for this ministry in Parliament, means family. It seems to me that comparing fatherhood with one wine, a very good Slovenian wine, is vile, rude, and I must say that in this case you are very badly on the side of your minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Germich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. I regret that colleague Kokalj did not insist on his amendment, which he tabled with the same content as an amendment to the committee. And I am pleased to hear today that you do not object to this amendment, because Mr Kokalj has quite a nice number of children in his family, and he certainly has put this into perspective after the experience he has, and I am sure that he has succeeded in convincing the Group of Members with his arguments. Of course, I would only touch those thesis, Mr Horvat, as you say, that most will take advantage of it in three years. All right, that's the way it is. But we can't say that everyone does. And when we analyze why not all of them do it, we would certainly find reasons for someone to decide not to take advantage of it in the first three years, but to take advantage of it later. And whether we are in order to abolish this right to stop those who take advantage of this period by the age of eight, surely for reasons, we are prepared to reduce this period from eight to three years. I think it is very important to know the reasons why individuals decide, and it is important that we see solutions also for those who do not take advantage of this right in the first three years, but also later. And we give this opportunity, and we don't order anyone to take advantage of it in the first three years, which I think is crucial in understanding or up to three or eight years. Let us allow openness, an opportunity for those who will do so in individual cases, but not that this right will then no longer be available to them. Let's leave this openness, let's leave this flexibility even if most people decide to take advantage of it in the first three years. I am sure that colleague Kokalj, who comes from your party, had legitimate reasons not only to defend this amendment, but to submit this amendment, which actually has the same content as the amendments of which today in the three parliamentary groups, in the three parliamentary groups and with the representatives of the fourth parliamentary group, which today can somehow feel a positive pulse. From your parliamentary group we can feel a positive pulse, which means that it is not only something that would be linked to coalition and opposition, but to the situation that actually exists and comes from a positive climate for family creation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with my fellow Vice-President, Mr Pečet.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u76	Your Honors are here! I, too, am one of those who did not intend to be included in this law, because I believe that the handover by a fellow Member and two colleagues was sufficiently correct. I would just like to point out the amendment tabled by the National Party's Group of Members, because it is likely that the error of perception is written and repeatedly spoken by so-called government Members. In the National Party we try to preserve the existing legal content on this matter. This is the material which, as my fellow Member has already said, has allowed the individual women who are here today to be successful mothers and successful Members of Parliament. And why don't you afford it to other women in our country, too, is the first question. The second question I want to raise or further explain is the word "do". Since we include this word in the amendment and maintain the existing value, it means that each individual can decide on the range or when to use the option of exercising the right, so we are only returning to the situation as it was. You gentlemen and ladies, I don't know if you want to understand or what it is, but of course you're restricting this right. And even if this was a small number of people who made decisions, that is, over an eight-year period, this must not be an argument to prevent this small number of people from doing so. But by voting against you, you are interfering and preventing the possibility or use of this option. But in the final stage, hand to heart, what Ambassador Sok said in the context of the consideration of this amendment, the leader of the Nova Slovenija Group, that family policy is quite irrelevant, as you said, in my opinion, this also shows a picture of the government of Slovenia. If we are dealing exclusively with family policy "per partes" within the framework of a sounding government law, and if we look at yesterday's session, the continuation of today's session, we see that it is so fiscal, that it is a tax policy against families, against the so-called family policy, as well as if we are looking at only the bibian issue. As you know, with your suggestions, with Mr Drobnič's appeal, you have caused that strong selection to take place, which makes it impossible on all fronts or makes it unfriendly for the family. And that's the problem. If we want and insist or have the real intention of building a society friendly to the family, then much more steps should be taken than the aforementioned ministers' approach in the form of this law. But also in all those areas that allow not only education, but the solution to housing problems. But you all know that last week, with great rampom and joy, you accepted the introduction of a new real estate tax. But those are also important things within the framework of the so-called family policy. If you'll allow me to conclude. Personally, I am very sorry that Minister Drobnic is not present today in the debate. I would also like to join my colleague Brenčič's opinion, if we followed, say, the content of our words on the amendment mentioned above, it would not be necessary to discuss it at all, since it would already be included in the matter of the law. In any case, given that he has declared or used only three arguments, why this amendment is bad, and given that all three of us O Minister Drobnič greeted him! [[...]] And given that we asked him about all three amendments to the content and it turned out that there was no content behind his words. He was talking about the study. He didn't present this study on his mother's working body, not today. He talked about a small number of fathers deciding to exercise this right. But that's no reason for you to preach this right to this small number of fathers. The decision of the family is whether to exercise this right, either in the first three years, or in the first half of the year, or in eight years. But let us keep the range at least as it has been under our country's legislation so far. As far as the last mention is concerned, I would like only to ask if you are defending and stressing that the existing Slovenian legislation has allowed for the development and development of the career and development of families, then allow this also to those people who will exercise the rights set out in this title, that is, from now on or after half a year. If you had this right, don't break it to others. I propose that you make a positive definition of yourself until the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The Minister has signed up for this. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your word. Given that questions and debates on this law have been raised more broadly than the amendment, Mr Vice-President, I will answer all questions. First time. The law introduces a number of new rights for the benefit of family policy, and it is not true, as you argued, that the Ministry is not working in other areas as well. With regard to employment, you will consider the law, which you already have in Parliament, reliefs, exemptions for young people, women and mothers, that is additional. Not one day of leave is cut short, it's just a matter of law. Not a day. However, the possibility of using is directed towards an earlier period. See, if we were to allow for a choice, then we could set it to the end of life, as the Member of the National Party put it, up to 35 years of age. But science, psychology will tell you that the need for parents to be present is inversely proportional to the age of a child, so we want to actually influence parents with this orientation to benefit early vacations. Not that they do not have it, they have the same number of days, the same number of days, and the Ministry of Labour has proposed several days of paid leave, but there have been objections from employers and some others. However, the Ministry of Labour has proposed this, i.e. the extension of this right. We exercise the right to part-time work due to parenthood also to parents who are not in a dependent working relationship. It's an extension of justice. Right to payment of social security contributions in the case of four or more children up to the age of ten. A very big right to relieve parents. Expansion of the right to partial payment for lost income to one of the parents who nurtures and protects two or more children with moderate or severe mental or motor impairment. It was a mistake of the former government, we abolished it, we abolish it, the law has good solutions. We exercise the right to a large family allowance, honourable Members of the People's Party, introduce a new supplement, a higher allowance for four or more children 100 000 for all who have 4 or more is 100,000. After the previous law you enforced in the previous government, you have 82 grand. You must speak the truth, honourable Members. You can say a little bit more cheerfully with some parabola, but you have to tell the truth. When do they go on maternity leave? The use is really lower in fathers, but in this way, as you suggest, there will be no more use. However, we will implement some measures that will ensure greater use of leave by fathers as well. This government has inherited a difficult state, as far as fertility is concerned in Slovenia. You have enforced or implemented by means of amendments or bills in the previous coalition of all Members, but Slovenia has one of the lowest births. And this is what the government has inherited and is looking for solutions to raise this birth rate in the field of employment, parental protection, and the like. These are proposals that go in the direction of greater fertility. We are aware, however, that it is not just social transfers or parental protection that affect greater fertility. We have done an analysis, we have done a survey where the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have highlighted the following: the greatest impact on greater fertility is certainly employment. Another slightly less important factor is housing, others have less weight. Probably the rest of you, I have children myself, three children, didn't decide to have children because of the baby supplement, but it's important that it's a child supplement because it guarantees social justice. In Slovenia we have the longest maternity leave, and we also have the highest compensation for maternity leave if we are doing a comparison in the European Union. But we still don't claim to reduce anything. This is an important contribution to ensuring social justice and ensuring social security for families with children. But we're enforcing some new ones, and I gave you five, six rights that stand firmly behind you, material rights, material resources. This amendment is a guiding one. The use of leave should be ensured mainly in those early periods of child's life. By this same logic, as you suggest, up to the 35th century, we would really guarantee much greater flexibility, but to the detriment of the child. Then it could also be a parental leave, which has now been extended to 35 years of age in the first year of a child's life. Do you have any idea what the consequences would be? This is not a good direction, so we have also proposed such a change. However, this change has no important decisions for the child; it has no such weight; it has a guiding character. This is what we have also said, in simple words, but we very much support, very much insist on other essential rights for parents and children, because we are confident that this will affect the well-being of families, especially with multiple children, and also affect parents' decision-making for children. It was also a question of using, limiting 45 days before the baby was born. This provision is a good provision because it ensures the use of leave up to the eleventh month of the child's age, because it is not possible to put a child in kindergarten before, and many parents were in severe trouble when their leave expired, they could no longer benefit from it and could not put a child in kindergarten. That was the reason, the key reason that we proposed changes. It's turned on us countless mothers. So the Ministry of Labour is working hard, trying, and has a number of other solutions to ensure good family policy, but this also depends on other negotiators, what they have, or what opportunities we have, including in the Economic and Social Council, inter-sectoral coordination, inter-community coordination and more. Thus, all we can imagine cannot be realized in practice, but these are good, big steps and in other areas we are promised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I allowed the Minister a broader debate because I also allowed it to you. But now I would still like to go back to Article 7 and the amendments. We have two replicas. Mr. Zagorac, then mag. Spending and then three reported to the debate, if I understand correctly. And the replica? If you have a replica, let me just say, the replica is limited to three minutes and the debate is not limited, but it is within the framework. That's how you decide what you want. Okay, Mr. Zagorac is first.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Petty Officer! Perhaps your potential for perception as a Member was greater than that of a minister. It's probably turning from the height. Last but not least, you know that 30 years have been said symbolically, so read the amendment. But this rhetoric for 30 years can become a reality very quickly, given the current government policy. It is true that you do not shorten the length of this leave, but deny the right to choose, and you know it. And this performance of yours has now been a simple deception, and I am very glad that you did not mention the exercise, as did your parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u81	Thank you. The replica has a mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr Minister, you mentioned that the government has inherited a difficult situation on family policy, but you also said at the same time that the height of the child supplement is one of the highest. The birth rate began to decline long before the Social Democrats joined the government in 2000, and it will not improve so quickly, especially if we look at what measures the current government envisages in evaluating the family policy. When you mentioned the survey, I also think that the law, not the children's allowance, will not encourage young people to make decisions for a greater number of children. I still think it's a personal decision that needs to grow from internal impulses. True, but this is a very important information, which we keep silent that young people also point out that in addition to continuing to work, it is also very important to have internal dynamics in family life, where women expect a greater understanding of the responsibility of family life by their partners as well. And that is why I am working so hard to extend to eight years, because women want to be less burdened with domestic work in Europe, despite their employment, but want to play a more equal role and also to exercise the right to free time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Prevc has the replica and then Mrs Shirca and Mr Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I was given a word earlier when I passed the rules of procedure and went on other matters. I repeat to the minister that I did not tell the truth in addition to a large family. Of course I was telling the truth. True, this supplement has increased from 82 thousand to 100,000, a family with four children receiving 100,000, and of course a family with five, six, seven children gets the same. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] And I said nicely that it seems very unfair for a family with four children to get 100,000 and also get a family with ten children. [[....]] That's what I was saying, and I was telling the truth. That's what the bill says.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u86	Thank you very much. It is understandable that the former government is to blame for the fact that in Slovenia there are too few children, that fertility is low and Mr Minister, what you have now prepared does not mean that something better or even vice versa, unless you can stop condoms or abortion. But you need to be fixed. The change that happened with the addition to large families is worse. It is true that large families with four children will receive an opportunity of 20,000 more. But before he was an addition, he wasn't specifically mentioned, so it's said that he was adapting and he was better, he was adapting to the opposite. Now you're fixing it, so it can be very relative. But what's more interesting and not in the spirit of the reforms you're predicting or some liberalisation, this supplement will also be able to get Mr. Gantar, who has the property, we know where, or some single woman who doesn't even have two square meters of her own apartment. Same way. And why? Because he could buy a better car.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you. And the final replica, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u88	I regret that, through the Minister's debate, which I hoped would be credible at least once for the change, we have opened a full debate on the law. We must be aware that if we were more in this room, we were talking about the amendment and the article on the amendment, which we should know in particular, given that you were a Member when you were a Member with a different, differently developed sense. I would just like to point out, look, Mr Petty Officer, that it would not remain in the ears and mentality, that is to say the theory that you have developed and, of course, is false, carved and false. At the first year of your ministry, you joined the so-called successful or enhanced fertility policy. During the first year of the ministry, financial resources were reduced in the active employment policy, and you cited it as the first argument for increased fertility, i.e. employment, you have reduced. In 2007 compared to 2006, because the budgets are adopted, in your area I say, you are the Minister in the field of social security, you have reduced the financial resources by 100 million Slovenian tolars. Here you are saying that the second biggest argument for increasing fertility is solved or at least a promised or achievable solution in the area of housing. With your appeal, Mr Drobnič went through the anticipated property tax or will go through the projected property tax. We must not deceive and say in this place that only this law, which has some positive qualities, will be planned for both members of the National Party and everyone else to talk about them when their articles come in line. These are the rules in this house. You'll have to know that. But we talked about this once in Article 7. And Article 7, as we offer in the National Party, is better, does not deprive rights or, rather, does not restrict rights. Your proposal for a law in this area is unfortunate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Pecchet, for reminding us again of what we are discussing. Anyone else would like a word on Article 7 and on the amendments tabled. [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. Yes, Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u90	Perhaps this Article 15 and the debate with it will, however, give colleagues and colleagues the understanding and understanding that it is actually a law that is already talking about reforms. It's from the reform package and I'm sorry it's spoken in an anti-reform way. What does Article 15 say, and why do we at least want to reject it in certain parts? According to the law in force, one of the parents who nurses and protects a child up to the age of three has the right to work part-time. This seems to us that every extension of this right, and this law prepares it, says by the age of six, is inappropriate for several reasons. Women already know that it is difficult to join the labour market. It is interesting that the employment rate of women in Slovenia is lower than that of Scandinavian countries, by five percent or ten percent in Finland. What can happen in this case when expansion increases working opportunities for shorter working hours? Women can then find it harder to engage in direct work, and because of their absence the employer can also refuse them. And it will undoubtedly be harder for them to pursue a career, more difficult for them to continue, make progress, because their work will be dissipated. And, as I have said before, it is theoretically possible that such short working hours can occur continuously for 18 years or more, 22 or more if they plan such children so that this order and this plan can happen to them in a way that they can, in fact, always be in such a working relationship, which is absolutely unproductive for them. Worse still, what happens in Article 48c is what you have brought to the committee, but it is possible for a parent, a clear mother who leaves the labour market for the care and protection of four or more children, to have the right to pay social security contributions and for all the contributions made under this Title. In short, pension, health and other insurance. The state opens cash registers to keep the wife at home. Is this okay for them and for the labour market? Is this for the promise, Mr Minister, you made yesterday that 10,000 jobs in Slovenia will be provided by new legislation? So, Minister Drobnic has promised 10,000 new jobs. Such a way of stimulating women, of course, and women, to protect and care for children, not to be trusted in the protection of them outside the family, but because they are worth it because they are paid to receive contributions from the country so that they can stay at home continuously and for a long time. This is a spirit of new thinking that certainly does not stimulate the labour market and women who decide to leave their jobs easily. What's that? May stay home. This is this ideology, which, of course, follows such very innocent amendments into this Slovenian society. Therefore, Mr Sok, such a debate is certainly not, as you said, irrelevant. It is very important and talks not only about reforms, but also about values. We don't like it, so we want it to go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u92	Thank you, for your word. Now I'm going to say, this is a bit of a bad world, we've heard that before today. Two hours or how much we talked about Article 7, how we reduce our decision-making ability, how we suppress Dad, the whole circus was, in a sense, around this article. Here, when the state offers an opportunity and even pays for the care, we protect the children that we are present with the child, and here for incomprehensible reasons I listen to these things, how it is necessary to protect the mother in order to create it, etc. Look, we're really talking about a violation of freedom here. Mother can decide whether or not to make a decision. It's up to her. If she finds out she has an interest, she'll benefit if she doesn't, she'll find out and she'll go to work and she won't benefit. Let's leave it up to her. This also allows flexibility of work, greater flexibility occurs. That's really the promise of more jobs. It is only allowed that, depending on your ability, ability, schedule of work hours, you benefit from the four hours where you have the opportunity, or you do not use them. Let's leave them. Here is indeed the deprivation of freedom, as my respected colleague has already said in this seventh, which I still claim is not such a problem, while here literally some matter that we want to give to people, to give to parents, to limit or to want to get out of the marriage. In this article, I think there is a great deal of defiance, freedom and freedom of choice. Dear colleagues, I really don't see the real reason here, and I say that this 15th article should remain in law and that people freely decide how they will work, to what extent they will devote themselves to their children, to what extent they will devote themselves to their service, to leave them alone, and after all, that the state has made the right move here, allows their contribution to the upbringing and protection of children in that most sensitive age until the seventh or tenth year in the event of a larger family. Me and our Group of Members will strongly reject this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u94	Thank you. I will support or support the amendments of the Liberal Democracy because I see them in the measures decided by the government, otherwise the legitimate right of the elected government to direct the policy in its own way, and I must admit that I do not agree for several reasons. Because it's internally inconsistent. Previously, we have heard that the gentlest period is until the child's third year, now this tender period extends to another age period and the country will make a fine contribution from the budget. We have previously talked about unpaid leave for the care and protection of the child, so the right to choose is, in fact, a very thoughtful right. I am also aware that in the labour market, women are not only highly educated in a limited number of well-paid jobs. I believe that it is easy for workers in the labour-intensive sectors of a wide range of private sectors, including other sectors, to decide to stay at home with children and families because income is so poor. But it falls to women's economic independence, falls to a number of other things, bringing women back in social relations for a while. However, as regards women in jobs requiring education, their competitiveness in the labour market is decreasing markedly. because absence from the job is known because it is becoming more difficult because the advocate of equal opportunities in her report also points out how women who have already been on maternity leave must fight to get the right to education and what else could be listed in this context is what all women lose. Maybe some people watch too many American movies, but they remember those unhappy housewives who, after the children have grown up and the men have chosen younger women, try to join the labour market. I do not want such a role for Slovenian women representing 44% of the active population, but I would like to see the government talking about the Lisbon strategy, which talks about greater employment in the framework of the Lisbon strategy, which talks about creating better jobs or jobs with added value, as it is now said, really create opportunities for both sexes, and not by means of statistics for women with university education showing that during the search for first jobs they are significantly worse than men, that we will once stop discussing how we want to increase fertility and women I am pushing, when they have to sign a charter that they will not have children until a certain age, and then we are as employers of a purely different opinion, just not moving forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Uhan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u96	Thank you very much. It is true, in this article, that we speak or speak, as if this right is only for mothers, and I would like to say in the 7th paragraph that this right is also for fathers, and that, for God's sake, we should use it once again to be equal before the law. You say the country will open the register, of course it will open it, but it will only give what it collects from contributions that mothers or fathers will stay at home and raise citizens, children. There will be fewer hospitals, fewer vacations, etc., at the same time they will lose contact with the work, with the profession, as they will still be present for four hours in the work process. I don't think you should worry too much about their careers, some motherhood means at least as much as some missions or some other careers. However, I am very pleased that in this law farmers and self-employed also get this right, but you have forgotten to say that these rights were not previously enjoyed by farmers or farmers and self-employed, and there has been great discrimination in the previous law and no one has noticed it. I'm glad you remembered that farmers and farmers, fathers and mothers as well as self-employed or entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm really not an expert in this area, but when I listen to two of my colleagues, Majdi, it just seems to me that they're performing as a survivor of feminism. I see in this amendment of the law giving greater opportunities, greater flexibility for both fathers and mothers, and greater concern for children, for the family; and suddenly it is through the amendment that is here on the table, this is something bad. I don't know if they know the thinking of the Slovenian mother, as well as of the fathers, that besides professional work they are willing to invest a lot of money for the upbringing of their own children, for the progress of their own children, here I see none of this. I think they've written off some women's families, children as something that needs to be combined into everyday life. When the law gives the possibility that this can be regulated more harmoniously, the family lives, raises children, all of a sudden we see great opposition. I think it's a survivor in the world, this fight is a defeminism, I stress once again what you're living here. I don't mind if you're in these positions, but it's not possible to do some good for the Slovenian family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Waste, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u100	Yes, Mr Jerovšek, but I was Majda without a last name in your debate. Since you've made use of the dual and we're in this National Assembly of Two, I recognized myself in one of the two. For you feminism may be unacceptable, I completely understand you, it is not survival, in Slovenia it has not, unfortunately, ever been excessively pronounced. However, I regret that you have overlooked that this National Assembly has also adopted a national development strategy on the elimination of differences between men and women, and in the framework of the national strategy it is also the elimination of all obstacles to the distinction between men and women, including with regard to integration into the labour market. And I understand very well that women have every right to decide what will really matter to them in life. I wish those women who mean both things to them equally, careers and motherhood would get that opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u101	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, we live at a time when flexibility is not only present, but it is sometimes necessary. And if I recall correctly, according to the statistics, the four-hour job is very current and present right in Scandinavia. And these are the countries you talk to us about most of the time about their values. Just in Scandinavia there is four hours of work at home of great virtue and is very present. And now I don't know why it couldn't be here with us. But there's something else I'd like to say, and this amendment just suddenly has an interesting phenomenon. I would hope to make a claim that we have come to some truth about values. Following this proposal, the State would pay contributions for both men and women. So not only to trouble women, even men are treated the same, for protection or education or for both together at home. That this is important, especially the education that we have thrown out of school in the past period, that this is also a value in children and that it would be possible to do everything at home, and that is why the state pays the contributions and I do not see why this should be problematic if the state gives you something. I would have understood that the finance minister would have troubled it, and I would have said, ladies and gentlemen, that's not how it works. That's not gonna happen. No, the state gives it, and now we, the ones who could benefit from it, the ones who would benefit from it, make it a problem for something bad. That's weird. But what's even more strange is that we find that our children are no longer virtues, not some of the greatest values we've always talked about, but suddenly it's become a greater value and a virtue of a career. It applies to men and women, not just women. Excuse me, for men and women. Now, a career would be more important than our wealth, which we called children, or the children we called wealth. And that's what we're dealing with. This is what I'm just not getting along with, and that's why I said this amendment was interesting because we put up some truth about values. So far they've been kids, and now everything's different. In this amendment, the career of both parents has become more valuable than that of the children themselves, although it is not mandatory that the state does not force either parent or father to accept four hours' work. There's no need. You may decide voluntarily whether or not to take it. I think there's even a possible combination, one time, another time, whatever the situation in the labour market applies; and that's the flexibility that connects it all together, and here I would say that even the option that can never occur in life is to pick up all the good things and put them in one frame. I have a certain concern here, not because of this amendment, but because we have a career in front of our children now. I hope that maybe it was a bit of a caricature, and I'm taking it for a lease, but it stabbed me, so I picked up. Otherwise, it wouldn't be, because this topic is somehow not the one that I'm covering, that I'm talking about, but it really stabbed me, because we're talking like we're forcing someone, and it's not true, and we're only talking about mothers, which isn't true, but it's true for both parents. And if there's anything, of course I won't support such an amendment, but I support that first text, if we've really managed to do good, more things in one place, it's just in this case, which rarely happens, because it's hard, it just doesn't work, because the stick has two ends. But in this case, I see that big end of the stick with good consequences, and that's why I won't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u103	Mr. Master Capuder has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u104	Thank you very much. To know what we're talking about, what the LDS amendment is proposing, which two members want to end. One is the right to care and care for two children, which is referred to as: "One of the parents who nurses or protects two children shall have the right referred to in the first paragraph of Article 48a or in the first paragraph of Article 48a of this Act to extend to an additional six-year-old child." And new 48.c.: Right to pay contributions in the case of four or more children. One of the parents who leaves the labour market for the care and protection of four or more children shall have the right to pay social security contributions from the third paragraph of Article 48a from the minimum wage to the 10th year of the youngest child. And there's another paragraph. This is what you want to end with these amendments. On the contrary, in our Group of Members, we believe that a number of different measures need to influence the improvement of the demographic picture, and we are convinced that these two measures are one of the measures that will at least try to improve this demographic picture. We are probably not aware that any of these measures will be used by a worker or a worker behind a running lane. This amendment, or these two articles, allow him this option, whether he chooses them or not, is his personal decision. There is no way in our parliamentary group that we can understand the opposition from the LDS and the SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Stane Pike has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. I cannot understand some of the opposition's opposition that they are opposed to some of the things that give more rights, which gives rise to a choice that is not mandatory. We live in a free country and therefore I support such legislation as to go in a direction that gives us a choice. In this case, there is a choice between careers on the one hand, on the other hand during parenthood. We all know that a child feels best raised with parents, and I now don't understand why we are sharpening things where they are given, for the first time, to choose and for the second time where rights are increasing, they are not discriminatory to genders, but these rights can be enjoyed by both sexes. And there's something else that matters. The flexible working time is also an important one that can be introduced with this right, and as far as career itself is concerned, it is not at risk because I understand the hardship of a modern woman who has studied for many years, but also has a feeling and a need for motherhood and both are difficult to reconcile. That's exactly what I think will make it possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Sok, you have the floor. No, no, no. You're giving up. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u108	Once again, with all that we have heard now, I must say that the point that I have to point out is the opposite of this amendment of the Liberal Democracy with what was accepted by the parties on their bodies under the title of a manifesto to cover social rights, the rights of the family, more values. I am glad that they have built their own mirror in which the Slovenian public can see that that manifesto is actually a new communist manifesto, misleading people and that they have in their pocket not only scenario a, b and c, but have 100 scenarios that try to mislead the Slovenian people. I am also pleased with this amendment and these performances, because I firmly believe that it is not yet true that this restricts parents or women. I think that a capable, ambitious woman can also coordinate this and that, at a time when she has a reduced working time, she is also able to learn functionally at the same time, which she may benefit from continuing her professional career. I know a number of cases of women who didn't throw away at this time who could combine maternal feelings and intellectual abilities. If you don't trust women like that, then I don't know what values you want to build on. And right, 95% of women are not on your side, and I am very happy that you are fighting for some principles, as I mentioned earlier, to survive this combat feminism is no longer a thing that is in the spirit of today, but politically I am happy about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u109	Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u110	Thank you very much. To Mr Jerovšku - a feminist resident, a liberal democracy, a communist manifesto - let me actually offer him a text that he could, if he could, but can no longer, because he was banished, read by Mr Damjan. What European researchers have identified, by the way, when they go to some kind of law, they also put it up for three years and discuss it with broad consensus, not just social partnerships, but also civil society at all. For a modern society, which we all know, including Slovenians and legislators, the fundamental problem is the birth decline and the increase of the older population burdening the cash register, ect. Ect. The whole world is dealing with this, whether feminist or non-feminist. It is found that countries with the highest level of women's work in the European Union also show a high level of fertility, on the contrary, which you say is recognized in some of the values that you quote. Even in Scandinavian countries, this fertility is highest. So the more women are employed, the greater the birth rate. Sure, but why? Since there are safeguards and other conditions for a flexible worker not to leave the labour market. Of course, this amendment speaks of choice, and that's fine. But at the same time, it says that this choice is even more limited, because it is extended at once, as Mrs Potrata said earlier, to six years and not three years. Here comes the whole interpretation of when someone should be with a child, regardless of whether he is a father or a mother. We are saying that women will move away from the labour market because of some of the solutions that have been given here. It is right not to introduce shorter working hours; however, it is not possible that a woman, when choosing between this form or deciding to stay at home, would prefer this to make a more meaningful and more comfortable decision to stay at home. And what does that mean, you're talking careers in front of kids. That's not true. You don't work here or one, and you don't think about it or the other. We are just talking about the fact that an employed woman, or one who is also satisfied with the profession she carries out, is more stable, more aware, and also helps in society more happiness and satisfaction, not only to herself but also to her surroundings.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u111	Mr. Petan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. So I'm happy for the government's direction. This is something new and a new approach. So far, families with multiple children have been reduced to some extent or, if we want to make it simpler, beaten. On the other hand, employers were also beaten under the policies of the previous government, who employed or wanted to hire people who had a high education because they had a paid salary tax and there was no tax on those who had no education, from zero to eighteen percent. Here I think, in this amendment, it is particularly important to remember that what I said in the previous sentences is being removed from a subordinate position in farming families. The situation here is particularly specific, for so far the parents of rural families have been in a subjugation. They were at home, in farms, raising children and also caring for protection. As a result, they had no compensation as parents who were classical workers. In rural families, however, parents were unreimbursable. Now they'll be somehow more equal. Of course, I think there is a choice here that no one will force them to do so either, but the possibility of this equality and the equal position in society will also be shared by those parents who come from farmers, in their own words. And I can see that the government here is obviously serious, with radical changes and equal treatment of everyone. This is certainly some support for motherhood in general, as well as for farmers’ parents. It is obvious that these families and parents on farms will gain more weight, more respect, but it is true that the state will also give more resources, but I think that is the case. Not only are we going to do it, but we are going to do it, and we are going to speed it up, and we are going to support it without money." That's not how it works. It's just that honorary title, an honorary title, and of which you have nothing, a flickering on your shoulder, and here's that concrete approach that we've missed, which is probably going to have some concrete contribution. I am sure that this is a good step in the right direction, and this is certainly proof that the government is serious, but it does not impose, but gives only a choice and this option for both parents, both for the mother and for the father. This is also a quality and contribution to better protection, better education and greater fertility. This has recently been called out to the media: "Yes, what will the government do about it now?"as a laugh. But I think it's a contribution to the concrete, almost no better. I am not saying that it is the only one, it will probably be necessary to do more, but this is even the first step or if these two or three steps are something done and it seems particularly important to me that the government is preparing or introducing some equality between families and that there is no division between farmers and others; this seems particularly quality in this law, which is why I will not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u113	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I didn't intend to come forward, but I was struck by the fact that some Members are mixing, we can literally say apples and pears, and by the amendments that prevent the deterioration of the situation that we have managed to regulate through the legislation so far in the field of child and family protection, this is linked to the career of women, if this is a thing that is harmful to children, to imply that we are women because we are applying in our profession, that children are not being raised. I would say that if children are not raised, it is the fault of both parents and that we certainly cannot get to the point that some people in Slovenia could afford to compare us with careers, I am talking about all women in Slovenia. Above all, I do not understand where it is from that 95% of women are for such changes to the law as they are now submitted, because I would like to see where those women who represent 95% of Slovenian women and support such, no offense, silly marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u115	Mr. Drago Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u116	And to me, my wife's family means the most, more than the parliamentary function I perform in this mandate. I am very pleased that the Liberal Democracy has tabled this amendment to correct the negative impact that this morning's debate has had on Article 7, which has nothing wrong with itself, to actually stand up now and say what good and positive this law brings to the family, to the father and mother, that they have the opportunity, an extended opportunity to benefit from short working hours. I know a lot of cases where families with multiple children want this option when they don't want to step away from the profession in order to completely leave their jobs, but by doing so, the law gives them this opportunity and prolongs the opportunity to also perform part-time work. I am pleased that since this amendment has been tabled, we can correct the impression that it was under Article 7 when you all spoke about how we are reducing rights when we are not taking a day of possible leave. Now that we have the option of voluntary choice, it is up to each individual parent to take advantage of it or not to take advantage of it. I say that the law is very good or at least much better than the law in force so far, and brings small-scale benefits and benefits for families and for families with multiple children. But it is true that this path will only have to continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u117	Mr. Stane Pike has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u118	Thanks again for saying that. Once again, I must point out that in this law I see a considerable impact of equality in many areas. This means equality between the two sexes because it is not explicitly stated anywhere that this applies to one sex, but to both sexes. I understand that parents are men and women, not just women, women, women, women, but men and women. As regards equality between the whole spectrum, rural areas are also raised by farmers having equal rights. I don't know if we're fighting the Slovenian countryside as far as fruits are concerned as they mix pears and apples, it's still okay, but when the pears start, it's not okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u119	Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u120	Thank you. We will not talk about equality because the father still has only 15 days of paid paternity leave under this law. Undoubtedly, I am not talking about any equality here, the Minister has not decided here to correct why, but we are at Article 2. You say how this article also weighs on equality. Dear coalition parties, you tabled this amendment all by yourself, and when you put it on the board, how did it go? A mother who leaves the labour market for the care and protection of children. Mother. On the committee he was corrected into one of the parents, these famous laps talking about the unconscious are said to be the one who is actually the mother who is likely to leave the labour market and decide to stay in the house and lose contact with her working environment, and at the same time the possibility that she will remain in service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u121	Mr. Stan Pike, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u122	There's probably still a physiological difference between a man and a woman and that a woman belongs something more, but it's also normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u123	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u124	I am obliged to answer or provide accurate information, including the right of my father or his mother to agree in an agreement to benefit from a nine-month leave and protection, so what you mentioned is not true. Paid, of course, nine months plus 15 days of that extra paternity so that the viewers and viewers have the wrong idea, nine months, this is a leave for the care and protection of children, but not entitled to 105 days of maternity leave. That's right, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u125	Since I do not see any other debaters applying for the floor, I am concluding the debate on Article 15. I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendment of the SNS Group of Members and the amendments of the SD Group of Members, which are substantively the same. Anybody want a word? Yes, Mrs. Tavsh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I'm going to be very brief on this amendment or his explanation. On the committee, on the working body of the mother, we found that, and I believe it happened by mistake, the word "healing" was written into the law itself. This is because, in particular, Article 22 condenses or takes the right to a child supplement to those children who, as it was written after the original doctrine, are undergoing treatment. I would like to point out that this is an unacceptable right to a child's allowance. Last but not least, we have heard from the Minister today that a child's allowance is a regulator or a key to social justice. I will tell you again that it is unacceptable to take a child’s supplement to that child or to the parents whose child is on treatment. And I believe that you are well aware that children who are sick, who are in need of treatment for 14-day, monthly treatment, annual treatment, that the parents of these children have great costs; also from this point of view it is not reasonable to take the rights given after the current law. The treatment of children is undoubtedly a special category for which the right to a child supplement should not be withdrawn. I will say, however, that we have extended this right or what was basically stated in the bill by the words "up to 30 days" in short, to one month. However, once again I would like to stress and appeal to you, Madam Minister, to support this amendment, and in fact to allow the right to a child's allowance also to sick children, including children who are on treatment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u128	With the amendment of the law nothing is taken, it is more specifically laid down as regards the exercise of this right. What is in fact set out in the general direction is now placed in the text of the law, is not taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u129	Thank you. Please, again, Mrs. Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u130	Look, Minister, when we discussed Article 22 on the working body, you were not present. At that time, both your representatives, representatives of the Ministry, were present. And at the time it was exposed and the Ministry also agreed that what was written in your proposal was unacceptable, so we added to the word "up to 30 days". I find that what is written takes the right to a child's allowance. And so it is written that the child’s allowance should be abolished to the child who is being treated at the hospital for more than 30 days. This was a correction of the original text of the law. That is why I appeal once again and actually ask that the amendment, which is being deleted, be accepted to allow the right to a child supplement, including to sick children, to those who are on treatment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u131	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u132	Nothing takes a child's allowance with this change of law. This clearly follows. Read the article of the law. You're telling the truth. This is the 69th article of the existing law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u133	Thank you. One more time, Mrs. Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u134	Look, Minister, but I really don't understand this interpretation of yours, it's not a lie on my part. But I'm afraid it's a delusion on your part. When we opened or had a discussion around Article 22, it was clearly exposed and also this amendment, believe me, is prepared on the basis of a discussion on the working body and on the basis of what your representatives said at the time. He's ready in cooperation with his mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u135	Since there are no more debaters, I conclude the debate on Article 22 and put to the debate Article 29 and the amendment of the SNS Group of Members. Who wants a word, please? Mrs. Tavsh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u136	Thank you very much again for your word. In fact, there are two amendments, both of them to Article 29. It is as I have pointed out on my parent’s work body, the problem of children with autism or autistic children. This is about the fact that the existing legal dictatorship releases children with autism, if you read it, I would not be able to go long and wide now, because I don't even have the time to read the very explanation that follows the text of the amendment. But you will see that in existing legislation in our country, parents whose children have diagnosed autism disorder do not have the right to compensation in those cases where they are forced to take care of and protect the child, to stay at home without employment. I would also like to ask in this case, given that both the medical profession and the profession represented by Minister Drobnič are once again very non-discriminatory in solving such problems, to listen and actually attach an amendment that will allow money compensation to those mothers or fathers who are forced because they have a sick child to stay at home and take care of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u137	Mr. Master Capuder, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The Rules on Criteria for the Exercise of Rights for Children in need of Special Care and Care define in Article 2 children with mental disabilities, identifying children with moderate, severe and severe mental impairment. In Article 3, this same Regulation defines children who are physically disabled, moderately, difficultly and severely disabled; and the annex to this Regulation is, at least so informed, also a list of diseases and between these conditions is autism. That is why I do not think it is appropriate and, in my opinion, it is contrary to the nomotechnic rules in order for any of these diseases to be corrected by my fellow doctors, to be included directly in any legal article. The right to partial payment for lost income shall be decided on the basis of the opinion of the Medical Commission and, if the Medical Commission assesses or determines that a child needs special care and special protection due to a serious disturbance in mental development or a severe movemental disability, then this right will be recognised by one of the parents, otherwise not. And we will not support this amendment in our parliamentary group for these reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u139	Thank you. Mrs. Tavš, you have 5 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Explanation. I have here a decision that clearly shows that autism is not characterised and therefore parents are not entitled to compensation. On the other hand, autism is not a mental illness. Read the explanation for the amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u142	Children with autism are involved when it comes to an appropriate level of disability. However, we do not include individual diagnosises in the law, as you yourself have seen, there is no other diagnosis.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 29. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 16th item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.55. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REFERENCE OF THE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE Tax ON MOTOR VEHICLES - REDUCTION OF THE PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. By amending and supplementing the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, the government wants to do two things: first of all, it wants to amend the provision on the way in which this tax is charged. Under the current regime, this tax is charged on the basis of the tax itself, which means that everyone who wishes to register a car will complete the form and submit it to the tax administration and also actually pays the tax. Usually it can do so after registration. The amendment of the law should be amended in such a way that an individual declares a car and on this basis the tax will be charged on the basis of a decision of the tax authority. This ensures that tax evasion is less likely. On the other hand, we also want to facilitate the payment of taxes, which is why it is suggested that the tax is paid anywhere, that each individual can register a tax at any tax office, no matter where he resides or where he drives or registers his car. These are two fundamental changes to this tax and also the purposes and objectives of the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u146	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Respectable. At its 17th session, on 11.4.2006, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Motor Vehicle Tax Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The College of the National Assembly decided that the proposal should be considered following a reduced procedure until the expiry of the deadline until 5.4.2006 by qualified applicants. No amendments were tabled to the proposal. The Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service with comments on Articles 6, 7 and 9, and further proposals for amendments to the Committee were submitted to the Committee by Articles 6 and 7 and 9. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. It was pointed out that the proposed amendments to the basic law by abolishing local jurisdiction would facilitate both registration and transactions directly linked to the purchase of vehicles, as they could be done anywhere. In addition, the legal text in order to prevent avoidance of obligations introduces the calculation or payment of the tax on motor vehicles already on the basis of a dosing decision, which is prior to registration. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further stated that the Committee's proposal for amendments covered comments from the legislative and legal services transmitted. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on individual amendments and articles of the bill and adopted all the articles. On the basis of Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure, the text is supplemented and we propose that the National Assembly adopt a proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The draft law was examined by this committee. Thank you for the report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Cyril Testen, New Slovenia has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello, representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, because we believe that the law is necessary primarily for the purpose of preventing tax evasion. Following Slovenia's entry into the European Union, a number of companies have emerged to import motor vehicles that have been produced and shut down very quickly to avoid paying taxes. In Slovenia, the way used motor vehicles were imported also caused unfair competition. In order to avoid paying taxes which are not small, they reduced the prices of cars on the market and put the producers and traders involved in the regular trade in motor vehicles in an impossible position. Estimates of the unpaid tax are different, however, according to the lowest annual estimates of several hundred million tolars. What will change with regard to the law so far? The opportunity traders who so far imported used motor vehicles avoided paying value added tax and taxes on motor vehicles, so that they simply closed the company before the obligation to pay the taxes incurred after the sale of the vehicle. The amendment to be implemented by the proposed amendment will require a certificate of value added tax paid and a tax on a motor vehicle before obtaining a certificate of conformity of the vehicle or prior to registration if the certificate of conformity is not required. It is also important that administrative barriers are removed and the motor vehicle can be registered anywhere in Slovenia. The value added tax and the tax on motor vehicles will also be payable at any tax office in Slovenia following the amendment of the law. The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act will have positive consequences for the State budget, as the tax will also be paid by those who have so far avoided paying the tax. More importantly, the fact that it will allow all operators on the market of motor vehicles to have equivalent working conditions. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u150	Thank you. Your Honors are here! It is funny when we speak about this speaker that the law or any decision we make within this house, which is proposed to us by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, will have positive effects on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In other words, but much more realistically, this means that this act or whatever the government is preparing for us will have negative effects on citizens and citizens. We need to be aware of that. In short, what is positive for the budget means that the state will gain more. And if we have a tax law before us, on the other hand, in real terms means that the state will tax a certain layer even more, at least under the pretext that it has not taxed this layer so far, but a hand on the heart, the positive effects on the budget mean more resources for the country. And when these funds come from fiscal policy, it means changing the tax system that will take place to the detriment of those who pay taxes - at least it's a natural or legal person. Under this law, it is very reasonable to look at it and, in my opinion, this must be an essential argument for acceptance or opposition, in particular an assessment of the financial consequences of the law, as stated by the proposed law. For the first time, the law will have no significant financial implications for the state budget. In the following text, as provided to us by the competent ministry or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, they state; additional revenue can be expected from the payment of taxes on motor vehicles in the acquisition of used vehicles from other Member States of the European Union. And now what I think is most important, at least, "but the extent of these revenues cannot be assessed more precisely." That's probably true. We do not know how things are going to happen, but if we take into account all three of the arguments cited by the applicant, the government representative, and present them to us as positive within the framework of that law. Allow me to say this: for the first time - removing administrative barriers. In the end, I will only tell you why I quote them and what these three arguments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are following. Second, simplification of procedures. Thirdly - fill that gap of evasion from tax liabilities. According to my assessment, the law weighs not only on these three arguments, which may be very popular in the ear, but mainly on the greater control of the government or the country of Slovenia per capita or residents of our country. If I were new to politics today, I would say this is a positive thing for the state to know what its people are doing, to know what are the financial flows or financial flows and the outflows of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. But it is precisely on the basis of that positive assessment or positive impact on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia that I can say with certainty that, taking into account all three arguments that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers to be in favour of itself, this means that a certain part of people will pay higher, whether the government says for simplification or for tax evasion to date or for simplification. The fact is that we have before us one of the laws that the government says is urgently needed by those three arguments. According to my assessment, this law is strictly necessary for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to be filled. We're at that part of the charge called tax revenue. So, as far as the process of enacting this law is concerned after a reduced procedure, we in the National Party have long ago said that in October 2005 any law affecting fiscal matter within our country should be adopted in accordance with the normal procedure. Whether the government shows it as well as the introduction of a new property tax, or whether the Government of the Republic of Slovenia presents it as a positive argument for the three positive things that I have listed, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also identifies positive effects on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. To conclude, the positive effects on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia mean negative effects for those who fill this budget. In this case, this budget shall be filled by nationals and citizens or by a certain part of the part of which motor vehicles are engaged or used in their business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The text we have before us speaks of changes and additions to the tax on motor vehicles, not of any new law or of any new tax. This needs to be stressed because some want to convert what it says in the paper. That this is a matter of additions and changes, but it also speaks of some of the weaknesses, such as this, which is called the frequency of changes in tax legislation, which is happening to us so-called 'ad finitum', and we will probably not be able to prevent it. This very large frequency tells us that we have many of our inherited weaknesses in this legislation, as well as some new ones we have already committed. This means that in taxpayers it is necessary to pay attention, means a certain sensitivity, probably also a "consistency" and calls for caution. However, it is important to ask whether we are really talking about new taxes, whether we are talking about increased taxes, whether we are talking about the unwarranted, and whether we are answering these questions in the DeSUS Group. What is good for the country is not bad for its citizens. Whoever thinks that way understands neither citizens nor the state nor the functioning of this society. These additions we are talking about and changes are, therefore, of a more technical nature. It is also a matter of trying to bring some legislation into line with other legislation, and let me also say to the proponents that it is not an attack on the ground, nor is it a change in the subject of taxation, not a change in the possibility that the new taxpayers are looking for, not a different tax base and not a different tax rate. The weaknesses we all recognize are different in nature. One is that it is archaicism as far as local jurisdiction is concerned, and in many laws we have already changed that, and it also shows this change. Unnecessary administrative tasks, if any, must be reduced and this is one of the attempts. Of course, if we do not agree with just perpetuating a large amount of tax evasion, it is probably acceptable for all. This will be good for the state and the citizens, for those who pay. But it's gonna be bad for those who don't pay right now, that's for sure. Some will find that if tax evasion is prevented, the current situation will become worse, but that they will no longer be able to obtain large profits and profits illegally. There are probably not many in Parliament who would object to this, except for some particular reason. Therefore, if the objectives of abolishing local jurisdiction are to prevent evasion, if the tax is to be settled before and before approval, if it is also to specify certain exemptions more precisely, whether it is to handicapped children, whether it is diplomatic representations or leases, then in the DeSUS Group, we support this. They are financial consequences, but for taxpayers, not if they have not been tax evasioners so far. Of course, there are consequences for the country, and thank God that we also have such consequences that have a positive impact on the state budget, especially if this prevents tax evasion. Better recovery is one of the main objectives of this proposal for amending and supplementing the law. In the parliamentary group, we support this law and at the same time realize that the main problem remains, of course, the main problem highlighted by the directive of the Council of the European Union still not adopted, which is likely to be on our hands this year or at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor. It will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues, colleagues. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposed amendments to the law on motor vehicle taxes. That's why there are two main reasons. First of all, this coalition and this government have been committed from the beginning and working towards creating a more friendly administration, simplifying procedures, rationalising, evaluating and allowing for easier business. The first amendments to this law are going in this direction: the taxpayers will be able to submit a tax return anywhere, to any competent tax office and not only to local authorities, as it was before, and we believe that this is progress. The second, which is important, relates to tax evasion. Recently, we have been able to obtain information that about 70 billion Slovenian tax dollars are being taxed annually in the inn. There is also tax evasion in the case of vehicle traffic, although the estimates are lower but still large. In particular, imports from other Member States of the European Union have resulted in the importation of used vehicles to these tax evasions, where we have also had a monthly payment of that tax so far, and many times this payment has been avoided. Therefore, the solution, which provides that it will be necessary to pay this tax prior to registration or approval, is of course supported because it seems to us that the laws are that all citizens and citizens, taxpayers, are to pay the tax as prescribed by the laws. In doing so, I would like to reiterate what my colleague, Rezman, has already put before me. The basic provisions of the tax do not change in any way, do not change the rate of tax, tax base, or taxpayers or subject to taxation; and speculation that there is an amendment to the tax by increasing the tax on higher taxes is by no means an option. Once again, I would point out that there will be no negative budgetary implications. It is said that they will be positive, because the state will collect more taxes, but not because of the higher levels of this tax, but because it will simply bring those scoundrels that have passed the law into their pockets. There is no way in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we can agree with the statement that if something is good for the budget, it is bad for taxpayers. All taxpayers have to pay the tax as laid down by the law, and this law will be more or less bad, once again, for those scoundrels who have so far avoided paying this tax. As a result of these changes, this law will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Petek will present the position of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u156	Vice President, nice to meet you. Colleagues, representatives of the Ministry. Today, most of us who attend this point seem to have no significant differences in view of this tax. However, as the opposition is fitting, my performance will also be a little more critical. With amendments and additions to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, the applicant does not really prejudice the existing basic principles of taxation on motor vehicles, such as the subject matter of a decision, taxable persons, tax base, tax rate, except for the already mentioned change in the principle of self-taxation, which is being amended by this Act. The proposed regulation also simplifies the process of filing a tax return on motor vehicles by allowing the taxpayers to lodge a tax return with any really competent tax authority in Slovenia. The proposed amendment to the law, which aims at preventing tax evasion, also changes the way in which taxes are collected for certain categories of taxpayers. At the same time, the proposed law complements and further further explains the individual provisions of the law, in view of the practice of implementing the law, which will contribute to the uniform and unequivocal implementation of the law. Therefore, the LDS Club supports the purposes of this Act, especially in the part where the local competence of the tax authorities to invest a tax return on the taxation of motor vehicles is abolished. With this change, the state has shown that it can also be a little more friendly to its citizens and at the same time achieve greater efficiency in tax collection. One of the important objectives of the law is also to prevent traffic abuses. It is the purchase and resale of motor vehicles from or to other Member States of the European Union. Most of the other amendments to the law are of a technical nature necessary to comply with other legislation and to remove administrative barriers. However, when this law is adopted in the LDS, we must also criticise the slowness of the competent authorities. If, at the time of the adoption of the basic law, it was not possible to foresee all the "capability" of Slovenians to play the law, however, the State or its authorities - the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia - needed too much time to verify the situation and developments in the automotive market and therefore the criticism was intended for the current government, which had a year and a half to remedy the shortcomings of the law. The result of this irresistibility and urgency is a large number of tax evasions and a loss of tax revenue in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, estimated at about 2 billion tolars. To illustrate this with a more plastic presentation of the consequences, this means that, for example, when we meet the current demands of students and students of Slovenian universities, during this period the country could provide for the payment of, say, Zois' scholarships, they amount to 45 thousand tolars per month, about 1800-1850 students for a period of two years. Unfortunately, this money has been lost by the country for centuries. We would also like to draw attention to the incomprehensible way of solving the problem of this Motor Vehicle Tax Act. In view of the impossibility or incompetence, the State has imposed a strange, silent way of violating its own legislation over the past few months, which it should primarily respect in order to make it difficult for traders to sell cars to other EU countries and to obtain in time for drafting and amending the law, but has maintained payment or reimbursement of taxes on motor vehicles. This has also affected these merchants with liquidity. All the irregularities of tax evasion, the damage suffered in this regard by the State budget, and in particular the commitment to equality and equal conditions, the competitiveness and integrity of sellers, require that we adopt the law as soon as possible and that the LDS Club will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u157	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly, within half an hour of the end of the 16th item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.55. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION LAW ON REVENUE - REDUCED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. The amendments and additions to the Income Act introduce an additional option for agricultural taxation, in the field of agriculture, to wine growers and oil growers, allowing oil producers to be taxed also on the basis of catastronomic income, that the tax base is cadastral income. After the current regime, winemakers and oil producers account for their income in two ways or have the opportunity to charge their income in two ways. The first way is to determine the profit based on income and expenditure; the second way they can account for a flat-rate expenditure of 70%. This last method applies to those winemakers and olive farmers who have less traffic than 6 million. Complementing the Income Act allows olivers and winemakers to charge this tax on the basis of their cadastral income, i.e. for this cadastral income, depending on the nature of the wine and olive oil production, increased for wine three times and for olive oil two and a half times. With such a solution, the government wants to simplify the way in which olives and winemakers are taxed and wants to make these producers have fewer costs in the tax collection itself, less administrative complications and that this tax will be more competitive than taxes in neighbouring countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u159	Thank you. The draft law was also regarded by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u160	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! At its 17th session on 11.4., the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act submitted to the National Assembly for adoption by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It was decided that the proposal should be dealt with in a simplified manner. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was forwarded to the amendments of Mr Janko Vebra of 29.3.2006 and to the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Article 7.4. to 1, 2, 3 and 4. The meetings were attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance of the Association of Family Winegrowers, Winemakers of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service. The discussion stressed that in the area of wine and olive oil, an additional way of determining the tax base is introduced on the basis of cadastral income. So it's an extra option. This method complements the current two modes, which are the volume of traffic or accounting for 70% of the standard costs. In order to determine the tax base, however, according to the Government's proposal for the production of wine, the cadastral income of the vineyard is increased by three times and the cadastral income of the plantation orchard is increased by two and a half times for the production of olive oil. In the debate, the members of the Committee paid a lot of attention to the amendments of the groups of Members. They mainly supported the proposed solutions and amendments were adopted as well. The opinion was expressed that the proposed law would thus contribute to the development of the production of wine, olive oil and beekeeping activities, as this possibility for beekeepers in the form of an amendment was also added. The representative of wine growers also gave a positive assessment of the proposed solutions and warned that this is important for the development of wine growing in Slovenia. I must also say that, with regard to the amendment of the four groups of Members to Article 3, on the basis of which it is possible for producers of wine and olive oil and beekeepers to notify the tax authority of the determination of the tax base under the provisions of Article 1 of the Act submitted for 2005. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to the controversial retroactivity of the proposed solution from the perspective of the Constitution. The fact is that potential users can use it or benefit from it or not, and it is a more favourable solution, and this amendment has also been adopted. The amendment adopted the articles of the law and proposes to be adopted by the State Assembly. Since the proposed law was not included in the draft agenda of the 2006 National Assembly for the April 2006 session, the Committee also adopted a decision - the Finance Committee and monetary policy - proposing that the following item of the agenda be included in the draft agenda of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly: Proposal for a Law on the Supplementation of the Law on Income, a reduced procedure, which was also done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! For an introduction, I'm going to allow myself a little field trip into the Income Act when he was so famously sung two years ago. We're doing a fourth correction today. Why a hike? Because we received a lot of phones, a lot of e-mails, including the protest demands of trade unions, and the student protest demands were also based on this very good law adopted in 2004, which entered into force on 1.1.2005. Now specifically on the proposal to supplement the Income Act, which actually regulates how the Ministry of Finance transmitted it. We estimate in the Slovenian People's Party that the expectations, wishes, desires of the affected - in the particular case of vineyards, olive farmers and also bees - have been regulated in the proposed law in the light of the initial requirements for 3 three and a half shorts, 2 and a half shorts, as well as the different number of stumps, we have come up with a suitable solution, which will actually regulate matters as in the law, so that the wine industry will be taxed after the cadastral income with an appropriate increase in the cadastral income, also with the increase in this cadastral income. Perhaps just a brief comment based on the suggestions that were to be counted in the cadastral income for olive groves of extensive orchards and not for intensive orchards. At that time, I think that this weighting or multiple should be not one and a half times, but several times more, given that the cadastral income of the extensive orchards where olives are growing is about a 10-fold difference, so we will support the Slovenian People's Party's Group. And we expect that in a comprehensive resolution of the income law, and I think that the income law will have to receive a comprehensive audit, a comprehensive processing, so that we will take the best possible account of such things as we are now correcting on such a well-adopted law in 2004.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Wine growers and oil producers are taxed twice today. First for crops and second for wine or for oil. Regrettably, this year’s national assembly should have taken into account what the government had promised at the time to regulate it in its law, and today it is actually solving this, for at that time the law was rejected. Today's correction only partially solves this problem and I do not think that with those multiples it would be necessary to further threaten an activity that has already already been seen in Europe as the least profitable and least promising, that is agriculture. The Income Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2005, has proved to be extremely poor in practice, especially in the field of wine-growing and olive-making, and it is not intermediate to mention only these two sectors, in this proposal we see that we have included other factors in this novel, but we are also missing some, we are setting olive trees and there are no pumpkin oil producers. Agriculture is a very poor and irresponsible part of the Ministry of Forestry and Food of the Republic of Slovenia in a very unpleasant and bad situation in Slovenia. Not only is this the only problem, but also the purchase price of crops, which is also pointed out by farmers in Slovenia themselves, is also a protest, and if we look at the subsidies being given, last year they were not paid within the agreed deadline, this year they will be paid with the remainder of the advance or the remainder for 2005 and 2006 and I wonder how these farmers will be taxed, whether they will eventually come into the higher ladder and will again be deprived of their share. So, winemakers are suffering from financial difficulties due to taxes on wine production, and it would be right to leave it all together as it was, taxed on a hectare yield, and that would be fair, because we know that, in fact, Slovenian winemakers and oil farmers are as direct, direct farmers, which means that they are producing wine or oil from their own grapes, now twice taxed, once for production, and finally for the product. And according to the applicable Income Act, they also have to pay higher taxes for their agricultural activities if compared to the burdens of farmers in Europe. For most European countries, it is considered that this agricultural activity is paid only income from the cadastral income and other administrative obligations. Of course, the assessment of the situation, when we compare this law with the previous one, is better and the new law really touches on that part of the production that borders on the production of its own produce, and also mentions for the first time the cadastral income, which is positive and improves the state of the law now in force. Of course, we cannot pass the facts if we know that agriculture in Slovenia is one of the sectors that is in the biggest recession, even in Europe, so that we do not make this story even better and better, more favourable for a farmer. We don't know why to tighten things with extra taxes on a sector that has no perspective, which we know is essentially about extinction. For the Slovenian farmer, there is nothing good about the future and instead of helping him more, we know that the working surfaces are not such as to ensure the survival of the Slovenian farmer, and we are actually charging him with additional taxes. I think it's worse than it used to be, and better than it is today. The law we passed in March is actually a doom for a Slovenian farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor and he will present the DeSUS Group, a position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u166	In fact, the amendment of the Income Act confirms once again what we said in the previous law is not over. We are constantly changing something, and in so doing we are confusing that even those who are working more specifically with it are already having a hard time following what is actually happening in this area. And this path will be particularly funny, because now it's repeating itself if I said "at infinitum" before, and now it's like "Circulus vituosis." Next Wednesday, after we have adopted this law, we will face another issue that deals with exactly the same matter. But that is how it is when it comes to taking account of circumstances, taking into account certain needs, and especially when it comes to taking into account interests that were very strong. Last year, we amended the Income Act, which affected those who are producers of wine, and the oil producers and claimed, probably from their own experience, that it would be such a heavy burden for them, administrative and tax, that it would even threaten a lot of people by abandoning their activities. And that would be followed by anything that could be negative from this moment on, and I'll talk about a few words later. In fact, what we will support this proposal for is consequences that could be negative, although the law is bad in our opinion. The law is a tax mixtum composite. Here we are now changing things so that it is actually difficult to express ourselves in a different way than to say translated into Slovenian that it has become some kind of tax disaster. It is a matter of proving excessive administrative burden. Perhaps for someone, but it is not so terrible, it is not so bad that our economists, those who are involved in producing wine and oil, would not be able to cope with the forces, anything else they know and anything else they can do, and they would probably be able to handle it. The point is that we are already changing the law in such a way that we are returning to the starting point, in some way equalising production and processing, abandoning value added taxation or translating it into multiples of basic cadastral income. We believe that this is an emergency exit, because a better proposaler has failed to find out, but that is not good. In doing so, the Committee on Monetary Policy and Finance further eased the measures or further eased the multiples of the basic cadastral income, and now it seems that feedback from those who are most affected by the fact that it is also acceptable for them, for both wine and oil processors, and for beekeepers, is still acceptable. The administrations will still have more, and the tax will be more than it would have been if the basic cadastral income were only taken into account. However, it is unjustifiable for me to say what is written in the material that this will provide an additional incentive for the development of this area. This certainly does not mean that we will have better, faster development in this area. This can mitigate the negative consequences. In order to have a faster development of such an economic activity, the structure of the economy will have to make a difference in the competitiveness of the processor. A situation like this is simply not competitive. Nevertheless, the DeSUS Group will vote in favour because we fear that the consequences might indeed be negative in the field of production, perhaps even abandonment of production, which would have a very negative impact on the cultivated landscape, the fundamental ecology. To think that people would leave beekeeping, for example, means that it would also affect the social image of those environments in which they are involved in such processing and processing. So we have a paradox that the situation is so bad that bad marriage is good.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Sušnik has the floor. It will present the position of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished assembly! The proposal to supplement the Income Act, which we are considering, tackles the situation that arose from 1 January 2005, when a new Income Act was introduced, the novelty of which was also a new way of determining the tax base of the production of wine and olive oil from own production intended for sale. The non-systemic activities previously considered as part of an agricultural activity for which the tax base was established on the basis of cadastral income were excluded from the basic agricultural activity for which the basic part of the tax base is still established on the basis of cadastral income through provisions 3 and 5 of paragraph 2 of Article 57 of the Income Act and were classified among those agricultural activities for which the tax base is to be determined on the basis of the management of the relevant accounting records. The reason for the implementation of such a solution was that the cadastral income system, which takes into account the revenues and costs of producing grapes or olive oil in the cadastral income, vineyards or plantations with olive groves; it does not include income from added value resulting from higher production rates and agricultural crops in wine or olive oil. If taxes on wine and olive oil revenues were maintained on cadastral income without the necessary changes and adjustments, this would mean that an important part of the income is systematically exempt from taxation, so we have prepared and supported these legislative changes. This is because we have observed that most wine and olive oil producers manage accounting as a disproportionate administrative burden and that for the most part the possibility of determining the tax base by taking into account the standardised expenditure is an excessive additional administrative burden. We welcome and agree that it is also among the basic objectives of the bill that it is possible for vineyards, who are also olive growers and growers, to lay the tax base on the basis and on the basis of the cadastral income, to make it possible, through the increased cadastral income of vine growers and planters, to tax income from the added value of the processing of grapes or olive oil in an appropriate way. It is right and necessary that we have also managed to regulate beekeeper taxation and that up to 40 stumps per debtor is a flat-rate estimate of income of 0 tolar per heifer and for a range of more than 40 stumps a flat-rate estimate of income of 5,000 tolar per heifer. We have also agreed with the amendments that the proposed taxation is valid for 2005 already. In the area of the production of wine and olive oil from its own crops and beekeeping activities, the proposal introduces an additional, third way of determining the tax base on the basis of cadastral income, which is good and adapted to the specific conditions of Slovenian agriculture, a fragmented own structure for both oil and wine producers. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the proposed law will contribute to the development of wine and olive oil production activities and to the development of beekeeping activities. That is why we will support the proposal. However, we estimate that the amendment to increase the number of stumps from 40 to 45, which are subject to the determination of the tax base to which the flat-rate assessment of the income of no tolars on the stump is based, does not have serious intentions and the right bases, and that is why we will not support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group because it is not comparable to similar arrangements in neighbouring countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Slavinec has the floor on behalf of the LDS delegation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings to all present! The law therefore proposes to establish the tax base of the income referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, taking into account the cadastral income of the vineyard increased by 2 times and the production of olive oil, the cadastral income of the plantation orchard increased by one and a half times. This means that the production of olive oil and wine will be significantly less taxed, and beekeepers will also be burdened by this law. We do not oppose the law in the LDS Club of Members; we have thought of its retroactivity when the coalition Members amended Article 3 of the Law by applying the amendments to the Income Act for 2005. The law, which has been introduced so late, cannot, in our opinion, work a year and a half ago, and this has also been pointed out by the legislature of the National Assembly. Let me remind you that we had the opportunity to resolve the problem of winemakers and oil producers for 2005 in a law tabled by the opposition, but unfortunately it was slightly rejected. At the same time, we note that the proposal of the law forgets producers of pumpkin oil who are in the same situation as producers of olive oil and therefore I estimate that the law is at least discriminatory in this area, as it reduces the taxation of olive oil and forgets that it is also important and fair to relieve production and producers of pumpkin oil. To avoid this, we propose to adopt the amendment tabled in Article 5, paragraph 45b, not only for its content, but also for the article to remain open until the third reading, and then we can also arrange matters for the producers of pumpkin oil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u172	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act was also proposed by our parliamentary group, we proposed a law dealing with the production of grapes and the production of wine and the production of olives and the production of oil as a basic agricultural activity, thereby allowing for a decision on the basis of the cadastral income. All of this has been done because of the efforts of wine growers and winemakers and oil producers to introduce a uniform way of taxing the basic agricultural activity that we want to define in the production of grapes and wine as well as in the same way in oil. We note that, while the government is following this idea in this law, it is increasing taxation for winemakers and olive trees, so the government's proposal is significantly less favourable than ours, and once again we note the unacceptable decision of the National Assembly when it prefers to make an authentic interpretation that has no legal basis, and it has rejected the law, which, as I have said, has been significantly more favourable than the one we are discussing today. In fact, the proposed solution is that the yield from the production of wine from own production of grapes is identified as the cadastral income for the cadastral crop of the vineyard, increased by three times, and that the income from the production of olive oil from the own production of the olives sold is identified as the cadastral income of the plantation orchard, increased by two and a half times. It is an extremely high tax, so that we have also tabled an amendment in the law itself, which has reduced this multiple, which is to increase the involvement of winemakers only by half and for olive farmers by one and a half times. However, we still feel that we are still not following enough the actual financial consequences that this law will have on public finances or on the state budget, as the applicant himself notes that there are negligible financial implications for the state budget and that for winemakers and oil producers, the benefit of reducing taxation would be very great, and in particular would improve their competitiveness and the situation, in particular compared to Italian winemakers and oil producers. Of course, such a situation would have been much more beneficial if our marriage had been adopted. Why did we propose such solutions? Even in fact, because we need to take into account that family vineyards still fill the gap in the offer of Slovenian wines, in the field of boutique wines, which also have a very beneficial impact on the sale of old wines from larger cellars, thus improving the position of winemakers and wine growers in Slovenia as a whole. And that's why this tax is low. And if we also take into account the impact of oilers on healthy nutrition, on the Mediterranean landscape, the revival of old traditions, on the development of tourism, and that last but not least, oil is less interesting and can only be cultivated as an additional activity, we should also have an even lower rate of taxation. The same is true for beekeeping, since it has a role similar to that of oil producers in the healthy food chain and also in the development of tourism, namely the promotion of Slovenia as such. That is why we also support solutions relating to beekeeping. We will support the marriage, but we regret that it was not ours, which was significantly more favourable and kinder to winemakers, oil producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Aloyz Sok, on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group, also has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the Government. In New Slovenia, we are pleased that the Ministry of Finance has listened to the problems raised by the Income Act, which was adopted in 2004. This Income Act has excluded producers of wine, olive oil, from basic agricultural activities. The law entered into force in 2005 and the problems started with 2006 when many wine growers should register and start to manage the bookkeeping. This has been extremely burdensome for such small vineyard production as we know in the Republic of Slovenia, and initiatives have begun in this direction that this law needs to be corrected meaningfully, and this change is before us today. Of course, it is not possible that it would be completely equivalent, and so in the end there was such a solution that those vine growers who process only grapes and those grapes sold are taxed through the cadastral income, as we now know in the Republic of Slovenia, while those who produce an additional product from this grapes needed to increase this basic cadastral income. Finally, we agreed through a number of debates that this KD base in wine growers increased by a coefficient of two, while in olive oil growers it increased by a coefficient of 1.5. But let me point out here that there is a problem with olive oil growers. According to the Cadastrian Income Act, KD is classified as a plantation plantation plantation plantation. And plantations are loaded with high KD. And since we are going to move on to some amendments to the Cadastrian Income Act this year, it will be necessary to correct this nonsense in this law, because we all know that olive plantations in the Republic of Slovenia do not represent an excessively intensive agricultural sector, that it is more about preserving the cultural landscape and the identity of our coastal region and that this issue will also need to be regulated. What was then added subsequently in the debate itself is something that Slovenian beekeepers have been working on for many years and has never been heard of before. The problem is that a certain number of hives would relieve any tax burden. Let me tell you that such a law was passed already during the Austro-Hungarian period, while Mary Teresa was in these countries, the law was that beekeepers were exempt from any payment of taxes. They were already aware of what some know today, that it is possible to import between them, while the pollination of fruit trees and other crops in agriculture cannot be obtained from imports. Most Slovenian beekeepers, I hope to claim this here in front of all of you, have about 40 or less of 40 after most AZ hives, that is also Slovenian indigenous stumps, and some also manage cargo canes, so-called Americans, but here it does not separate, up to 40 stumps, while over 40 stumps this burden is flat, made by a flat-rate estimate of the approximate income of 5,000 gallons per bee. This is mainly the case with some of our Slovenian large beekeepers, who will still be able to decide, according to the current option, on taxation through complementary activities, what the Secretary has already said in the introduction, or on taxation through the management of simple bookkeeping. Let me end by saying that this law also adequately addresses the situation for 2005, 30 days after the adoption of this law, winemakers, olive oil growers and beekeepers at the tax office will notify what kind of tax they want for 2005 and accordingly this issue will be settled for 2005. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you very much. [[...]] We will support the law in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and on the amendment tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the amendment review of 24.4.2006. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Yes, Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u176	Of course, we have already stated our position on this law. What I would like to point out in this article, although it is not directly related, is only one point which, in our view, has been under-emphasized today. At the time of the formation of this law and the solutions that are in this law, we had every opportunity, from the law of the opposition, the so-called mandatory interpretation of the laws, to what has now been made possible by the amendment of the ruling coalition to Article 3, as a fellow Member from New Slovenia mentioned, and also the solution to this problem for 2005. What I am asking the President is whether it is necessary for a representative of the legislative and legal service or a representative of the legal service to tell us, however, what has not been said in a written opinion, but it has been said on the Committee that the questionable solution proposed by the amendment of the four parliamentary groups to which we are keeping the Government, is not the opinion of the legislative and legal service, because this position and this amendment has been brought to the very meeting of the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee, but it is important to note that the proposed solution is of questionable retroactivity from the point of view of the Constitution. I ask the chairman, given that this is the only possible time, would it not make sense for him to get an appropriate opinion in the National Assembly? Why do I ask that? As far as I am aware, and even as April is today, we have already discussed this law in January, February, colleagues from another parliamentary group have proposed legal solutions, were correct in these marriage solutions, proposed no retroactivity, then went into a third story, and finally we end up and conclude this story with a law on changes and additions to the Income Act, which will legitimize the possibility of retroactivity. I ask the President, would it not make sense for the good work of the National Assembly to obtain an appropriate written, oral or any legal position? I would not like this debate or this way of solving the problem - in the House of Members and personally I supported the solution proposed by the opposition party's colleagues - so that this solution, proposed by the amendment to the ruling coalition, would not be explicitly stated by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia without the explicit reference of the legislative and legal service, with the exception of what has been said orally, actually legalized a new way of adopting legislation. This is what I am asking you, Members and Members of Parliament, because we will then have a debate on whether there is an appropriate public interest in this matter and whether this matter, which we are solving here and is more favourable and will apply for 2005, is actually something that we would do in another area if this principle is now suddenly violated. That is why, President, I ask whether it would be good to hear, there has not been much said about this today, first of all an explicit government and secondly, explicitly in this regard also representatives of the legislative and legal service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u177	Thank you very much. There's a Mr. Mag in the debate. Mr Wikl mentioned the need for the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, and in this case, under Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure or point 5 of its Rules of Procedure, I would suggest that we continue this discussion on this Article, at one point asking the representative of the Legislative and Legal Commission of the National Assembly to follow us or prepare ourselves. If the debate further shows that your question and your suggestion are appropriate, I will ask the representative of the legislative and legal commission for an oral opinion. I think you agree with that. Can we proceed with the debate? Yes, you can. Please, Mr. Sok, did you answer, I saw your hand in half, a little less than half? Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I understood that colleague Swickl was going to discuss the amendment tabled by the LDS; however, it was about proposing that instead of 40 stumps at zero tax rate, 45 stumps be treated, and I wanted to define myself to this amendment. I wanted to say on behalf of New Slovenia that we understand that 45 is better than 40, so it is something more. But given that we have talked a lot about this with the beekeeping association and that we have come to a common agreement and have also expressed satisfaction that this is the right number covering between 80% and 90% of all Slovenian beekeepers, it is said that all those small ones who help maintain Slovenian folklore, this particularity of bee-keeping or bee-ownership, that this is the right solution, and for this reason I would like to say that we do not see a great need to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mrs. Uhanova has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that. I, like my colleague Sok, expected an LDS MP who tabled an amendment to state the position, from where they had 45 stumps, just because they thought they were the opposition, or if they had any professional arguments. What am I trying to say? We will not support this amendment, but we are glad that the correctional tax law first solves the beekeepers' problem, that it has been forgotten from now on, you did not know that there are some 5,000 of them in Slovenia and that they have problems in performing economic and not only environmental functions. And that's settled, 40 stumps are untaxed, and over 40 stumps are flat-rately valued for income. This seems appropriate to us, we have also received such professional grounds, we have not received unfortunately better, but I believe that all beekeepers would be most pleased that they would not be taxed at all. As far as I'm concerned, eventually bees perform a more important function than an economic aspect, but still. As it is said, beekeeping is also regulated for the first time in this Income Act, and we will therefore support this law and we will support it ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber, you have the floor. I would like to remind you that we are talking about the amendment to Article 1, which speaks of 40 or 45 stumps and nothing else. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u182	Thank you. Well, beekeeping is certainly one of those industries that can be one of the most recognizable in the European Union when we want to represent Slovenia, it is a short bee and many of the things that bind around this bee have also been done, and trade marks have also been achieved to protect Slovenian honey. In particular, I would like to point out here Kočevski honey, which has achieved this protection of the name. If I compare how much effort is needed to produce honey and how much it takes to obtain an appropriate certificate that preserves the quality of honey, it is certainly necessary to consider whether and how much this activity is taxed. The amended bill, which was adopted by the Committee, accepted that taxation up to the size of 40 stumps is null and void, the LDS amendment refers to 45 stumps, both are acceptable. But I think, certainly, if we're talking about the 45 poles, I'm also in favour of this amendment being accepted. There is no major financial impact on the state budget, but there is certainly a great impact on beekeepers to actually make this activity more successful in the future. We must also be aware that, in fact, there are very few young beekeepers, so that we will have to do very much in this area so that the promotion of beekeeping will take place in an even more intensive way and that income policy or tax policy is one of those that can very much help to understand and promote this activity. The second reason is that these activities usually take place in areas where the income situation of the inhabitants is poorer because it is more difficult to earn additional profits, and therefore it is reasonable to listen to solutions that reduce tax burdens on beekeepers to a size of 45 stumps, as proposed in the LDS amendment. I will, of course, support this amendment in order to improve the situation of beekeepers, but also through marriage solutions, we say we support this activity and that this is one of Slovenia's more visible activities within the EU, which can certainly be achieved through a very great deal of effort and a lot of resources that you have to invest to make this happen in practice. Once again, I will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u184	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I also expected when Comrade Squeakl took the floor to explain or professionally convince us why it is more appropriate not to cover the income tax of 40 stumps, but to cover over 45. However, I do not understand his thinking in this amendment to Article 1 and the call he made for you to be called upon by the legislature of the National Assembly to define the content of the law, and this is where the sentence on the Committee on Finance, when this was addressed, was also transmitted by its colleague. Now specifically to the amendment. As I said in my presentation on the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, there were many such and different interventions during this time as regards taxation or non-taxation of a certain number of bees, there were several telephones, letters, also by beekeepers, individual beekeepers, even when the number of bees increased, including a reduction in the tax base, which is now listed in the law at 5,000. This is the tax base according to the tax rate to be applied either at the first or second tax rates. So, from 41 stumps, there'll be about a tax on someone who'll have a pretty good income for one vase of honey. Given the importance of bees, as stated by colleagues, not only the economy, the production of honey and other beekeeping products, the other role of bees in our area is so important that such a solution is as much as possible, including as a compromise, expectations and the desire of individuals, and I will therefore not personally support the amendment, because I could say why 50 or 60 stumps would not be taxed, and only above this number with some tax base would be taxed by bees.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u186	I'm replicating Mr. Bajc because he obviously didn't understand me. I don't need to talk about the number of stumps, either. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u187	Mr Bajc, we are really discussing this amendment and the number of stumps has been mentioned. Go on, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u188	Question 40 or 45 does not matter to me. It is important to me whether this law will introduce retroactivity. And then [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] If you'll excuse me, I'll tell you all about it. Then please, if you support this amendment in another reading [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u189	Please, calm down!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u190	to support this amendment in the second reading, in the third reading, and now I'm going to quote what you didn't listen to. [[...]] On behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club, when colleagues presented their position, they added something else besides wine, beekeepers and oil. If the legislative and legal service in this National Assembly is to say that this retroactivity proposed by the ruling coalition has been adopted, then let us propose what else we have proposed, and what else will we think of by the third reading. Therefore, of course, Mr Bajc, if you think together with the ruling coalition that retroactivity is acceptable, then please support this amendment, because when this amendment is tabled, we have an opportunity to add something to the third reading. Who says that only winemakers, oil producers and beekeepers are entitled to retroactivity in accordance with public interest? Maybe there's someone else. This is what I am asking, the President, the Rule of Law and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. He's got 10 minutes. And gentlemen, the amendment and the time when I'm discussing the amendment is the only time I can ask such a question. You're so familiar with the rules of procedure. And that's why this question is raised. It is therefore appropriate for the legislative and legal service to state this in accordance with Article 66 - fifth paragraph. And if the ruling coalition decides that this is still all right, as you did on the Finance Committee, I suggest you support the amendment to Article 1, and we will add something else in the third reading. I hope it's together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u191	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Franz Sušnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u192	Thank you very much. When we received this amendment, we were a little surprised because we practically have no weight, no content. It has been shown that it is a game of numbers that does not have any real basis that does not withstand any comparison and is not quite appropriate to the reputation and potential that the biggest opposition party can afford. Finally, it turned out that this amendment is just a means and a way of how one of the key members of this largest opposition party can actually express opposition to a legal solution that is preparing a legal solution that has completely ignored this area and left the matter unregulated. There is also a duality in this largest opposition parliamentary group, while the official messenger supports the law, and the unofficial or other part of the same body through the playing of the rules of procedure, by the way, I allow this assessment to be drawn, expresses explicit opposition to the legal solution which, according to our proposal, allows only that third option, allows for choice, goes in the direction of eliminating excessive administration, and is, in this respect, deeply convinced, written on the skin of our winemakers, otters and beekeepers who work, operate in specific situations and work of which is very important for the development and survival of the countryside, that we are not yet talking about this multifunctional role of beekeeping, which is very important. I hope that they will not understand our opposition to this amendment as opposed to reaching an appropriate comparable legal solution, but that those to whom this amendment applies or tries to regulate will understand the way and meaning of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Slavinac, please request a replica. As far as I know, you've only presented the position of the Group of Members, but you haven't discussed it, so I can't give you a replica. We're moving on. I think I have exactly what I've written, and so it's under Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u194	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Before I understood why this amendment was a day, I didn't know exactly whether because it was liked, it was better to correct it; any amendment going in plus something was a little bit more fixed, but that's why you have to come up with some numbers and some evidence. Since the fact is, I have information from the beekeeping association that 90% of all Slovenian beekeepers are those who have less than 40 stumps, some of them are up to 100 stumps, and we can probably count them on the fingers of both hands who have the number of stumps above this number. So, now I understand, of course, when Member of Parliament's colleague Milan Squikel intervened, why this amendment was tabled. So, I'm going to oppose this amendment. I myself have also participated in interviews, including in contacts with representatives of the Beekeeping Association of Slovenia and some beekeepers, with beekeeping, so I have met with beekeeping since childhood, so that this matter is relatively well known to me and I also cannot agree with my colleague before, who said that beekeeping has been completely forgotten in the past. In beekeeping in recent years, we have had individual state aids, such as subsidies, aid for the purchase of sugar, the purchase of medicines and so on. It is true, however, that beekeeping was forgotten in this last tax, at the last income tax a few years ago and, of course, with today's amendment of the law, we are trying to correct it. In my firm belief, the development of beekeeping is forward, for the development of this beekeeping, which is true, as my colleague Weber said earlier, is concerned with, unfortunately, the growing number of older people or the age of beekeepers is unfortunately increasing. We have little of this arrival of young people, it belongs to young bees, and this is one of the measures by which this ageing will not continue any faster or it will not be some measure, too much taxation to deter a lot of young and older beekeepers from doing this. But as we say, we are discussing this article, the first amendment to Article 1. Before that, I thought I had no connection, but now I understand why, but I will vote against this amendment myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Slavinec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that. So if I go back to what was originally said, it's okay if I didn't have a chance to replicate. I have pointed out that the LDS does not oppose laws, but we have concerns about its retroactivity. And in this regard and further, I will say that we are proposing support for the amendment, which we are discussing for two reasons. One is this, which I also mentioned, that in this way we capture a key number of those who have this number of stumps, 40 is a beautiful limit, but I also agree that 90% of those bees in here are possible, but 45 is a meaningful extension to include those who have something over 40, because it often happens for such or other reasons: older bees, a subsequent increase in the number of bees and so on. At the same time, I would like to stress that in this way we also allow the possibility - and I would like this to be the main point of my debate - to extend the possibility from olive growers to pumpkin growers and, as a result, pumpkin oil, because I do not really see any difference between these, except that there are more in Primorska and others in Prekmurje, and I also point out a comparison with neighbouring countries where this form of acquiring additional or increasing additional value. For we all know that farmers can survive significantly less than oil, whether noisy or olive, and that this is then one of the key contributions to rural development and, finally, to more coherent regional development, so that we can significantly improve the law. I therefore conclude the debate with an appeal to support this article, to give ourselves the opportunity for a third debate, there must be some other oil that could be judged by the other, or to make the activity and the law even better and be kind to those to whom it is intended, and then to the State as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to ask that we remain in the debate on the article we are discussing. The article speaks only of beekeeping and speaks only of 40 or 45 and nothing else. Please, there has certainly been a lot of debate on the parental committee, whether it belongs in addition to winemaking, beekeeping, oil painting. Please, once again, we are discussing this article and you are putting us in a position to continue with our will to discuss something other than what we are discussing. This is how the rules of procedure require that work be done, and please, I will follow the rules of procedure. Mr. Master Sayovic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I will follow your instructions and discuss beekeeping only. The amendment, which is before us, I will in any way support for substantive reasons, because of the extra headache, better 45 than 40, they know it already in primary school, but because I support the spirit of this law, which is suitable for rural and beekeepers, unless this amendment is adopted, I will also support the coalition amendment because it is good for Slovenian beekeepers. I know this area quite close, because it was years ago, when I also managed a number of stumps, which is much larger than that number that we are talking about today, and in this regard I remind you of a beautiful Slovenian proverb that says that there is an empty basket for beekeepers. This proverb very well illustrates the income situation of Slovenian beekeeping. However, I must say that beekeeping in neither the previous system nor in this system will be excessively or excessively taxed, but we have many other problems in Slovenian beekeeping, which are worth more texting and more attention than taxation itself. This is mainly the health of Slovenian bees and the related resulting quality of Slovenian honey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor, as you have reported, and as I have written.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I think today's debate has shown that this amendment was necessary. If we hadn't tabled this amendment, we wouldn't be having a debate today about what you're doing with this law. With this law, we are all working together to solve the problem that Minister Bajuk has failed to solve, and I will talk about this amendment within a year and a half since this problem has arisen. And that is why we are proposing an amendment that, if adopted, will only allow all of us to consider together, by the third reading, whether there is another branch in agriculture where it makes sense to introduce an exception that is so strong that - and now I am going back to this crucial content of this law - will also apply for 2005. Perhaps the Ministry of Finance in the meantime would do some analysis with the Ministry of Agriculture, for example, in view of problems such as bird flu, that such a industry is also poultry, gentlemen. We met at a meeting on Friday, the European Union Affairs Committee, even on this subject, or the meeting was closed, but the European Union discussed yesterday that another agricultural sector would be included in a special exception, and it may also be necessary for 2005 to introduce a change in the method of accounting for income for poultry farmers as well. I'm talking about this on purpose because you gentlemen are [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u201	Mr. Squeakle [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u202	I'll do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u203	Please. Please. Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u204	gentlemen from the ruling have decided that this is important for winemakers, oil producers and beekeepers. [[...]] And we propose that you accept the amendment, open the article to the third reading, and in the third reading, we, and who else, the eligible candidates, can propose something else. Mr President, nowhere else in the Rules of Procedure or in any other period of time than now, it is possible to fulfil what is provided for in the fifth paragraph of Article 66. That is why I have also proposed, and I have also started to think that, before we continue this debate, we hear this basic story that this law is the right law, it solves problems and how important these problems are that we enforce the law back. Therefore, Presidents, I conclude with a procedural proposal that, in the meantime, before you conclude your debate on this item on the agenda, in accordance with Article 66, paragraph 5, you should call on the legislature to give an oral opinion. Above all, if the government were to decide whether or not to call on it itself, the government has notified itself in this debate for 10 minutes that the government will also give its opinion that you are hearing members of the ruling coalition, what your government is saying on your amendment. I would like to hear what the government says on the amendment of the ruling coalition MPs, which says it is important that the beekeepers, if adopted, beekeepers will be "excommunicated" with 45 poles. These are important things, and if this is possible for winemakers, oarsmen and beekeepers, and if the government, Members of the ruling coalition, confirms this, the door is open. Just support the amendment, the LDS amendment. But if you reject the amendment, then it's another story. Then it is a story that has already been concluded and, above all, it is a story of opposition to one other opposition party's proposal because it was not a real candidate. Please, Mr President, my procedural proposal has been, please also if the government has given its opinion, because the government has not yet said so.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle. You applied for the debate, I gave you my word for a debate, but you also made a procedural proposal in the course of the debate. I will give you my opinion on your procedural proposal. Earlier, he had asked for the word of a government representative, Mr Mag. Spread out. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Given that this has also been mentioned, the time that this law has actually been presented, I would like to highlight the circumstances under which this decision arose. The Income Act was adopted in 2004. The analyses, whatever they were made at the time, were such that they did not show all the effects of this law, which entered into force from 1.1.2005. The Ministry of Finance and the Government shall analyse and monitor the effects of this law. As a result, the government also set up two expert committees, two working groups, the so-called Kranjč Committee and a later reform committee, in which there was also a tax group or working group to prepare new tax legislation. On this basis, it has been established at a certain time, within certain months when this law has in fact been in force, that certain administrative difficulties arise in some taxpayers as regards the application, with regard to the calculation that they are disproportionately high taxes. On this basis, the government has adopted amendments to the Income Act. In other words, this government had not been able to do so before, as the effects of this legislation were only visible at the end of 2005 and at the beginning of 2006. Therefore, on the basis of these analyses, the Ministry of Finance immediately approached further analyses and the proposal for additions and amendments to the Income Act. We also note that the proposal we are talking about the 40 poles here is comparable to that of Austria, and from this point of view it is comparable to 40 stumps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Speaking of stumps, 40, 45, so that I don't get too far from the amendment, it has to be said that neither 40 nor 45 should be the number that we are discussing today. Of course, it is nothing more than a great diversion in the entire context of talking about such a law. The activity that is in recession cannot be taxed. We are now taxing here an activity that we all know in Slovenia, that there is no profitability factor, that there is agriculture in extinction as well as that it does not have a perspective, and that is also the real problem of Europe. If I were to be asked, no percentage should be collected from this title, not from winemakers, not from oil companies, not from beekeepers, not from anyone else in this area. On the other hand, we give hundreds of billions from the budget for other activities we are not sorry for, including billions for the church. Let's be a little less generous there, and we'll have a little more money as a farmer. Not just tax, tax, tax, but just watch where we're going to collect! This will be shown below. You'll see that voters will be grateful to you when all these taxes come back to life, from the property tax, and this is what they are now, and maybe another one, and we've just had on cars and so on. You will see how grateful they will be to you in the next election period. I don't think a man whose country doesn't make sure that he lives normally can't be burdened indefinitely. It's really embarrassing. Not a farmer at all, but a farmer should be taken care of in a different way. We should give him more money than we give him. We see that subsidies from 2005 are not paid until this year. And to develop this activity in the sense that tourists can also be shown something when they arrive in our country. What we're doing here is we're arguing about 40 or 45 stumps, but it's embarrassing for this national assembly, please. Nothing should be taxed in this area at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to say that this solution seems to be a good one. This - 40 bees and then over this number one flat-rate income assessment - means that 40 bees are excluded from this tax. In fact, beekeepers also know bee families, so at this point this solution is good and no harm would be done if the LDS did not table its amendment, because what they have proposed is, of course, a normal bidding, this is not some serious debate. I would like to tell my colleague Cvik that Minister Bajuk will find it difficult to fix everything that Minister Maramor has brought through this tax law in 2004 through the National Assembly into our Slovenian reality. Now these things are being simplified, and those who will receive them, of course, are pleased with these solutions. As for enlargement proposals, you mentioned pumpkin oil and poultry, poultry activity, etc., once again, at this point in agriculture we have 3 forms of taxation, we are talking about flat-rate taxation here and today, then there is taxation through complementary activity and, of course, pumpkin growers are covered here, including other agricultural production activities. This is the amount of up to 6 million and then the write-off of 70% within standardised costs and then 30% as a tax source and, of course, the large bookkeeping management, where all "inputs" can be displayed in this area. This solution is good and, of course, we do not need to discuss this amendment in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u212	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If the debate continues for just one more hour, we will find that this applicable income law, as I said earlier, which is experiencing a fourth change, will have to undergo many changes. It seems that he will come and become a real law that will fairly cover all citizens and citizens of this country. Unfortunately, this law only applies for one year and four months and is used as a tax law. Second. I have to get out of here. I'm going to comment on the bees first. Comrade Sok and some mentioned, yes, we have the A.J., we have the American, but we also have the Krančes, and we have the 8-hour Znidaršič Panes and the 9-and 10-and he would refer to this as what a colleague of the Squeaks said, and then we'd get to that as if we had 40 10-hours. But why did I use it? For one simple reason. If this were the purpose of Cvikl's argument that it was an amendment to Article 1 to open the debate, why did he not then amend Article 3, which speaks of retroactivity for 2005, and it would not be necessary for us to now call on the legislature of the National Assembly to explain whether this is the legal definition of this period, which says that in the 30 days following the adoption of this Act, taxpayers from 2005 have to report their receipts. If I were to be corrected or be a parliamentary group, at least the part he represents in this parliamentary group, because some of my colleagues have also lobbyed for the law to go through, as it is, would be an amendment to Article 3 and would carry out retroactivity or regulation of the case for 2005. Those who applied by the end of January would be taxed, the rest would probably be tax offenders and would probably not pay as much as 100 as natural persons, but probably as legal persons more penalties because they did not provide for the 2005 tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u213	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Mr. Squeakle, you have a replica of Article 1 that speaks of beekeeping.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u214	Of course, it's always just Article 1. Look, I'm reciting Mr. Bajc to allegations that are incorrect. Look, we don't have to write an amendment to Article 3, because we don't object to this law being adopted as it is now designed. This was opposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which said that 40 or 45 stumps are subject to the provisions of this law only in 2006. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janša, said something else that you said Members of the ruling coalition. I know why the government said that because if there was some kind of legislative and legal service in the government, it wouldn't let a different text go through the government. And that is why I am telling you, Mr Bajc, if the position prevails in this National Assembly, it will be possible to do so, then it can also be for 45 roosters and in the third reading for something else. This law is in Article 1 - and I will talk about Article 1 that there will be no mistake, of course - first of all, about the fact that we have a special arrangement for winemakers and otters. Thus, Article 1 says that a new 45.b Article is added, namely the establishment of a tax base on the revenue of the production of wine and olive oil. Then, on the basis of the amendments of Slovenian beekeepers, the title of the article is changed in the second reading to determine the tax base on the incomes of wine production, olive oil and beekeeping. And if you propose today and support us in the amendment to Article 1, then we will be able to write here something else: to determine the tax base from the production of wine, olive oil, beekeeping and so on; all that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can say to it by voting in a second reading is to come up with a third reading, because it is the political will of this national assembly, and I am simply warning it, nothing else. So we wouldn't pretend we don't know what we're doing. We are introducing a new practice in wine, olive oil and beekeeping, and Mr Šircelj has said it correctly. I'm finishing the replica here. It was not until 2005 that the government found out, since 3 December 2004, that Mr Bajuk was Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u215	Mr. Rezman, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to say the following to this amendment. For the first time, I would like to draw attention to the incoherence of the argument. And secondly, I remembered this one book written by Arthur Schopenhauer and he speaks with an address on erotic dialectics. This simplified means that we learn to respond to those who want to be right in every way, even when they are wrong; and I will try to show it now. If it is a serious intention to increase the number of stumps, it is written in this amendment, from 40 to 45, then an appropriate explanation should also be written. The explanation is written inappropriately, for the first time verbally incorrect and for the second time substantively completely passed. Secondly, if you're holding the argument that it doesn't hurt from the excess head, then you have to say that 45 is more than 40, that 50 is more than 45, that 55 is more than 50 and that it's the most everything. In short, we come to the point that there can't be any number written down at all. If, as some say, they want the opening of this article only for the sake of being able to squeeze another exception together by the third reading, then we must say that this path is never closed, they can always propose a law amending and supplementing the law. We have already discussed today how this is changing and will be making their proposals again 'ad infinitum', they have this possibility and the rules of procedure allow them to do so. However, they probably have no moral or political right to obstruct the adoption of this law, which must enter into force. As I am still talking about this amendment, as far as public interests are concerned, in my judgment, I have talked about this before, when I presented my position, our public interests are a fundamental ecology in this area, which we cannot replace with any money, even with imports, no, it is a public interest to preserve our cultural landscape, it is a public interest to have a socially sustainable image and so on. And I continue, when we do not cause these public interests to interfere with the benefits that a person with a constitution and law already has, then retroactivity is allowed, as stated in Article 155 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. President, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u218	I have a procedural proposal to put an end to this debate because this amended proposal for a law has four articles, as we can read them, and the amendment is tabled in Article 45b, not in Article 1, as previously stated in the debate. I argue that an amendment to article 45b cannot be tabled to a four-article law, and that is why, according to my assessment, it is irrelevant and is also "inextricable" to discuss it for two hours and another one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u219	In view of your comment, this proposal may be corrected by the end of the debate. Mr. Squeakle, will you fix it? Okay. Mr. Horvat Ferry has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u220	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! I didn't mean to come forward, but there's little time available, and I don't need to talk too much. I think a fellow Slavinac put his cards on the table and frankly said that the purpose of this article is not to block the adoption of the law, but to get it in if possible, if there is a will, including pumpkin oil. You can call it damage or why it didn't come up with this proposal sooner. Well, it didn't work out. If there's a good will, there's still a possibility. I would appeal to you that if we are benevolent to the other three types of producers and products, which supports and I am satisfied that the government is also benevolent to this, because this is a contribution to rural development, in order to give an opportunity to include also pumpkin oil or noisy oil producers. The Secretary of State mentioned neighbouring Austria. Those who go across the border to neighbouring Austria, in particular Styria and Gradištianska, see that in every other house they offer, sell pumpkin oil; and this can be a very important complementary activity for individuals, but for state finances does not mean any loss or burden, rather. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u222	Thank you for your word. This thing is getting a little comical. We argue here and we argue about 45 stumps or 40 stumps; I don't know what's more important, and there we find that there are different stumps. It's said to be very indefinable. And I'm not surprised that this thing has come so far, because this novel that we have here now is changing some 2004 law, that's from July. This was one hot day when we received two kilos and 35 amendments ten minutes before the meeting, which we then decided in 10 minutes, and there went very quickly because I think the 2 kilos and 35 amendments were adopted without opposition. There was not much to discuss there, and today, because of this, not just because of this, we are arguing about 45 stumps. This is probably the third or fourth addition, the fourth addition to this law. Thank you for reminding me why it was necessary to accept this so quickly when we got those two kilos of 35 amendments to the session, but now we are talking and we have amendments about these famous 45 stumps, which we find to be different. And since we can't discuss how these ladies are, I would suggest that the title of this "amendments to the Law on the Complements of the Law on Wine, Olive Oil and Trots" should be the title. I mean, if instead of stumps saying how many drones there must be, then probably more accurately we could have defined this area and then we wouldn't argue whether it's that many bees, or whether it's a little bit more or a little less bees. When the dacarios count how much honey they're going to get out of here, I think the drones would be most appropriate because they would define a family. With this, I just wanted to illustrate what we're talking about here and what this amendment is all about and what the value of this amendment is, nothing else. And I don't want to be insulting to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, you've really been written. You, too. Please. The debate on the amendment to Article 1 is still under way.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u224	Well, I don't think we're even talking about pubs here, although the ladies are important, not about the trots, but we're talking about whether the government as the mother of the bill actually supports or does not support the logic of this law. We're not just talking about the number of stumps. We are talking in the only possible form of discussion, given that the second reading was concluded at a meeting of the parent working body, as it was, that this problem that we are discussing today could be resolved before the 2005 income forecasts were submitted - if the ruling coalition were willing to adopt a law in February proposed by another parliamentary group. That's all this is about. Just for that. As for these amendments in 2004, sir, which you spoke before, I must tell you so. If that law had not been adopted at that time, then Mr President of the Prime Minister would not be able to speak at the press conference today about Slovenia being best anchored in the European Union because of the adoption of that and other tax laws among the new members of the European Union and being the only one to take over the euro within a good seven months. These are the facts. Now, if you don't want to accept them, I can't help you here. My debate and our intention to table the amendment was made possible in the third reading, when it is confirmed that winemakers, oil producers and beekeepers are so important that, after two months, as proposed earlier, this right is given to them by the will of the ruling coalition to do so for anyone else. Members of our parliamentary group, including colleague Horvat, of course spoke of who and which oil producers might be. But it should be judged by the person who is supposed to be the mother proposer at the time between the second and third readings, not to say the matrix of laws, and this is the government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not propose beekeepers in Article 1, Article 45b, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not introduce this possibility for 2005. That is why, of course, I want the government, which today, through confirmation in the second reading, will receive an appropriate political message, to do something else in time for the third reading. And that's all we're giving her - if the MPs of the ruling coalition support our amendment. But if you don't support the amendment, then you're really just confirming that the only reason we're adopting this law today is because you were against the law proposed by another opposition party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u225	Thank you very much. A government representative shall have the floor, Mr Mag. Spread out. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The government analysed the Income Act on what was happening in 2005. On the basis of these analyses and effects, it proposed a law amending and supplementing the Income Act and on this basis proposed that oil and winemakers be taxed on the basis of cadastral income or increased cadastral income. In doing so, the government expressed its position. And if the government finds that there are some imbalances in relation to past taxation, that there are too many administrative problems, it will do so in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u227	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u228	Mr President, I would still like to ask before you conclude the debate because you started this because I understood that you would give your word. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u229	Mr. Squeakle, I haven't quite told you what I'm going to do at my conclusion. Are you reading my mind?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u230	No, no, no. Look, Mr President, if you close the debate, then whatever the Lord of the Legislative and Legal Service says, we cannot use in the discussion below. I think it's right for him to say that at the time of the debate. And before you conclude the debate, give the floor to the rule of law so that, on the basis of the available time, the new conduct on what the representative of the legislative and legal service will conclude the debate. I therefore ask you not to conclude the debate, but to give the floor, as has already been proposed several times, to the representative of the legislative and legal service. You ask if anyone else wants to say anything and then close the debate. But to debate and wait for a legislative and legal opinion, to debate in order to get an opinion from the legislative and legal service, and then to prevent the debate from being debated after the legislative and legal service's express opinion makes no sense. The Rules of Procedure say well if the President of the National Assembly considers that a certain legal issue must be resolved at the meeting itself when it is still on the run. No, when it is concluded; if you conclude the debate, the meeting is closed, I would ask that the representative of the legislative and legal service be able to deliver an opinion before you conclude the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u231	Thank you. Allow me now to complete my thoughts without interruption. I would like to warn you that the meeting of the National Assembly will be held on 3 May and will be held on 3 May. That's the first one. Secondly, there was now a debate. I really am not a lawyer, but I will follow the rules of procedure and I will try to be as precise as possible. What I've been following in the National Assembly so far. Secondly, the debate was about the amendment to Article 1, which was precisely defined, as regards beekeeping and the number of hives. I didn't find anything else in this amendment. It was an amendment and he didn't talk about anything else, nor about the law. Third. That's what I'd like to see for myself, even though I've asked for an opinion. Third. Today we will vote on the amendment to Article 1. After the end of the vote on the amendment to Article 1, if it is not adopted, we will vote on the updated proposal for a law supplementing the law on income. That's when we're gonna decide what you're talking about, Mr. Squeakl. That is why I will continue the meeting by closing the debate on the amendment. However, because in procedural matters and also in your debate there was only something that would give you a suspicion of the legal basis of this, I have asked the representative or the Head of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly to follow our debate, and after the discussion, I ask him for his opinion. At the same time, I inform you that you have an opportunity to have a procedural question before the vote on the law itself tonight. Thank you. Please. Mr Mozetič, Head of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I was told that the issue was related to the return of legal acts, i.e. to the foreign retroactivity of the law. I don't think I'm going to say anything new, all of you well know the constitutional provision of 155, that it first sets out the principle that legal acts apply only to forwards, which is perfectly normal. However, in the second paragraph, the Constitution gives a certain possibility, a certain exception, namely, that I will read the exact provision so that it will not be disputed: only the law can determine that individual provisions of the Constitution have a retroactive effect if this requires public benefit and does not prejudice the rights acquired. If the question which has been communicated to me, if this is a question, we can find here indisputably that it is a matter of law, that it is a matter of individual provisions of the law which are supposed to be applicable back so that they are obviously not prejudiced by the rights acquired. The question to which the answer is needed and is an additional condition if this requires public benefit. If this requires public benefit, what is the public benefit? Whether the public benefit is given, the applicant must say, the government must say. However, it is for the National Assembly to assess whether or not the public benefit is given, whether it is possible, then, to adopt or not a provision that would have a retroactive effect, and whether or not it would be in conformity with the Constitution. There is nothing else the legal and legislative service can say at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Excuse me? Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u234	I am making a procedural proposal to resolve this dilemma, which is probably familiar to everyone. The government did not propose retroactivity in its text. And as I understood Mr Mozetič, he said it was the government that must say whether it was in the public interest. Members of the ruling coalition have proposed an amendment that introduces retroactivity. It is now up to us to decide whether Members of the ruling coalition are governments or whether the government is capable of saying that this is in the public interest. It's all about this dilemma all the time. If I get the government's consent today to this amendment, or if you get, if you want, the government's opinion, then all these questions would not be there. Of course, I would accept them, but as you have heard from the representative of the legislative and legal service, the government must make it clear here that this is in the public interest. I have no problem with this; it is only the government that has to say this if we still have parliamentary democracy in Slovenia and respect certain procedures. And it's right for the government to say that. Mr. Petan, if the government told you, I don't know. I want the government to say that here at a meeting of the National Assembly. Otherwise, it'll be a precedent. But anything is possible in this country. And I would just like to take the view of the legislative and legal service, which has been expressed twice, first in the debate and today, that it is clear that it is in the public interest that we will introduce for 2005 - and it is only right to introduce this, if the government so proposes to me, and the Members of the ruling coalition have proposed this - an exception to the system that applied to all wine producers, olive oil producers, beekeepers. And if you support our amendment, you can open something else for someone else. That's why we have executive power. And you don't have the executive authority to run a task force. Let the government know if it's in the public interest. And all this discussion is aimed at precisely this issue to understand in Slovenian parliamentary democracy who has a role to play. In the meantime, if someone wants to interpret the Constitution differently or accept something, without the clear political responsibility of the one who proposed it, in this case, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, if it agrees, I cannot accept it, because then suddenly it will not be clear what this legal order is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u235	Thank you very much. I think that in the course of today's debate there was also an opportunity for government representatives to say what is right, what is wrong, to get involved in our debate. Therefore, I would like to inform you that we will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 16th item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.55 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - First draft of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on takeovers. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Dr. Matei Lahovnik. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members with first-signed Dr. Matthew Lahovnik requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. I give the text to the representative of the proposed law for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Dr. Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u236	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! By means of the takeover law, we want to eliminate some of the legal voids that we believe exist in Slovenian legislation. The main solutions to this law could be taken briefly as follows. By law, we want to further define all entities subject to the takeover law and extend this law to non-public shareholders, those not listed in the organised securities market, with more than one billion tolars of total capital and more than 250 shareholders. It also introduces an additional criterion for persons involved in determining the obligation to make a purchase offer or takeover offer. As you know, this is governed by an existing law, but in our view this is not adequately defined. We also lay down the obligation to cooperate and the obligation to exchange data between the Securities Market Agency and the Competition Authority. As you know, a typical case is the brewing war, where cooperation between the two authorities, between the Competition Authority and the Securities Market Agency has been prevented because the existing law of this cooperation does not allow it in an appropriate manner. There is also a significant increase in sanctions both in financial work and they are exacerbated in civil law work, and the Securities Market Agency as a criminal body is established. More precisely, the deadlines for publication and modification of the offer for redemption and the revised method of accepting competitive or modified bids for redemption are defined. Additional powers are conferred on the Securities Market Agency with regard to the determination of the appropriate price of shares, the defence actions of the targeted company's administration are newly defined, the right to exit and the right to sell a minority share are introduced, the deadlines for publication of important business events are reduced. Dear Members, Members, distinguished Minister and Chairman, what needs to be highlighted and what is essential to the amendment of the takeover law proposed by the applicants is: for the first time, this law allows for the additional protection of small shareholders in the so-called grey market, most traffic in Slovenia is actually carried out in the so-called grey market, and the grey market is not regulated by the Securities Market Agency. Most of these transactions take place far from the control of the relevant institutions. In the grey market, the real jungle is a government where securities are traded and we believe that this law can make trade more transparent and thus protect small shareholders in the grey market. Let me give you a case. With the shares of Telekom or shares of Nova Ljubljanska banka, with the shares of the insurance company Triglav, shares of all those companies not included in the organised securities market are traded on the grey market. The scope of these transactions is very large, the appropriateness of the price is questionable, many are buying these shares under extremely favourable conditions, small shareholders are not getting adequate compensation for this, there is no appropriate price, there is no control over this trade, so it seems appropriate for us to regulate this trading on the grey market. The second thing I would like to point out in particular is the prevention of 'insidership in managers' purchases of companies; this law establishes an appropriate price institution; it also prevents the target company from itself incurring and actually redeeming itself. In order to purchase shares, the management must specify the value of the undertaking, the methodology for determining the value of the undertaking, the reasons for the methodology chosen, and also define the role of the auditor and some other institutions. More at the time of the debate because time has run out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u237	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. I give my word to a government representative, mag. Andrey Visiak, Minister of Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members. The Honorable President. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Economy, which is responsible for the preparation of the revised takeover legislation, are aware of the importance of amending and amending or revamping the takeover legislation required so far by the application of the law, as well as of the commitment to implement the Takeover Offers Directive. Due to the thoroughness of the intervention, the government has also decided to make a new takeover law. In preparing this, he has been working against this concrete proposal today, a very wide range of experts, experts, institutions and, of course, it is crucial that the issue is very interdisciplinary and is linked to the systemic substance of the takeover legislation. Of course, the revised takeover legislation is also linked to the current amendments to laws, particularly those on companies, to the law on offences. This specific law on takeover actually reflects the content, the basis of the law which was sent to the legislative process in 2003. These are old bases which are not in line with existing Directives and which are not in line with the legislation adopted in Slovenia. The normative framework for taking over activities in the European Community has changed significantly from 2003 to today. When the Directive was adopted, the Action Plan also amended and supplemented a series of acts which affect the scope of the Directive or take-over activities. The Act on takeovers, which is here in Parliament today, does not take this into account, which also raises serious and justified concerns about the harmonisation of this particular proposal with the directive, which the proposaler unfortunately refers to. Furthermore, the proposed law does not include a number of solutions necessary for the development of the securities market in Slovenia. We believe that, inter alia, uniform rules should be established for all participants in the securities market. I do not know why certain exceptions or specific treatments are emerging; it is necessary to harmonise the takeover with the provisions of other recast laws, in particular the Company Act, the Securities Market Act and Banking Act, and to properly address parking problems, to determine the appropriate amount of fines and to sanction violators. In view of the above, the Government cannot support such a proposal for a takeover law, and therefore it also proposes to the National Assembly that it does not adopt this law or adopt a decision that it is not appropriate for a further procedure. Let me just mention something after our assessment of the apparent inconsistencies with the European Directive as well as national legislation. In particular, the law on the table here does not take account of coordinated action, as explicitly provided for in the takeovers directive. The takeovers directive provides a very strict diction as to what, when persons are counted or where operations are considered to be coordinated. This is also very important for the protection of small shareholders, because if we allow the abuse of this institution or the unscrupulous respect of the directive to continue, there are very vulnerable small shareholders, and this is contrary to what the applicant claims to be protected here by small shareholders. If we also allow further concerted action, which would not be legal, then it means that there is no take-up offer, and it means that small shareholders are not protected. Contrary to the adopted law adopted by the government last week, it is considered to be a burden of proof in some cases on the part of persons acting in connection to prove that they are not working together, and this is in fact a very important protection of this coordinated action. Let's talk about informing the workers. This is contrary to the directive which requires it, but the amendment does not concern the law at all, because it is mandatory to inform workers in the event of a takeover. In short, it is a non-coordinated text, both with the directive and with Slovenian national legislation, which is why we are once again assessing that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u239	Thank you, Minister. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Our position will be relatively brief. In opening, let me say that we will not support the continuation of the law procedure proposed, with the ambition of paying more attention to the law that we already have on the table and which the government has proposed. With regard to the takeover law, it is clear to the public that the acquisitions do not have a long history with us. It is clear that this is a less familiar phenomenon with us, and it is also clear that every time a takeover takes place, it causes intense excitement in the public, excitement in small and large shareholders and in all those who are interested. Whether it is due to the manner in which something has been done, either due to correctness or because of the purpose, consequences or appropriateness of taking over an individual economic operator. We agree with the argument put forward by the government parties regarding the shortcomings of this proposal, which we are now talking about, and we do not need to quote again. The minister is just running out of time to say everything the government has written down. We simply agree that we must leave room for reflection on the new proposal, on what the government has just drawn up and for which we believe it is also more thorough to summarise the directive and our own domestic legislation, which is one of the shortcomings of the proposal proposed by the Group of Members. We do not reject this proposal or a group of Members because it would be unnecessary, not because it would be so bad that it would not be worth considering, and not because it would be so bad that nothing could be corrected by amendments. We simply have on the table an extensive material that we need to devote our time to, which is called the proposal for a law not only on changes and additions, and we will also pay our attention to this law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u241	Thank you. Mr Bojan Starman will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u242	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! The current law, which was created in 1997 and 1999, was adopted at the end of the company's property transformation when the secondary market for securities began to develop and the need for legal arrangements for the acquisition of companies appeared. At that time, the law focused its content on the regulation of the securities market and the functioning of the shareholders. This law, in its creation, included modern elements of the takeover regulation and followed the proposals for a European takeover act, but from today's perspective it shows a type of shortcomings and transitional specificities that require appropriate reform and harmonisation in the spirit of opportunities for the capital market of the Republic of Slovenia as EU members. This law, which is currently in force, has been adopted in accordance with the principles of modern takeover legislation, such as the same treatment of all shareholders, the mandatory takeover offer in order to reach the threshold, the obligation to disclose data and the limitation of certain defence actions that would prevent takeover. The current law is from a transition period, with a number of national specificities, which are often to the detriment of small investors by users in the capital market. The arrangements for acquisitions in accordance with international standards are necessary for the internationalisation of the Slovenian capital market, for the implementation of the planned privatisation through portfolio investors, for the more transparent role of the state in the economy and for the effective protection of small shareholders. It is said that there are a number of reasons why we need to marry. However, this law, which we have before us, was created in the same form as it was created in 2003, and was then rejected as inadequate in Parliament. Since then, when Directive 2004/25 was adopted, the Action Plan has amended or supplemented a series of acts which affect the scope of the Directive or take-over activities. The law before us does not take this into account, although the problem is also closely linked to the shortcomings of Slovenian takeover legislation. As the government representative has failed, I may also repeat a few points which are not adequately resolved in this bill. This proposal does not adequately implement Article 2, point D of the Directive, which specifies persons acting in a coordinated manner. The Directive defines persons acting in a coordinated manner as natural or legal persons who cooperate with the tenderer or the issuing company on the basis of either an express or silent agreement expressed in writing or orally aimed at obtaining control of the target company or at preventing the successful outcome of the tender. This proposal for such coordinated action does not process at all. Nor does this proposal fully implement the provision of Article 4 of the Directive, which provides that Member States must lay down rules concerning the competence of supervisory authorities when it comes to companies established in one of the Member States of the European Community. Furthermore, the proposal of this Act provides for a fair price which must not be lower than the maximum price at which the acquirer obtained securities within a period of 6 months prior to the publication of the redemption offer and which does not implement a comprehensive Directive of the European Union, which provides in Article 5, that the fair price is the maximum price paid by the tenderer or the person acting in concert with it for the securities specified in the public tender within a period of 6 to 12 months prior to the takeover offer. Therefore, the fair price depends not only on the highest price paid during a given period of the acquirer or tenderer, but also on the persons acting in concert with it. Nor does the proposal implement or provide a solution with regard to Article 10 of the Directive. It is the duty to disclose information from public shareholders in their business reports. Thus, companies must disclose the information on the company’s capital structure, the restrictions on the transferability of securities, the indications of the company’s major shareholders, participation in other companies and could also be listed. The proposed law does not include solutions necessary for the development of the securities market. We believe that, inter alia, it is necessary to establish uniform rules for all participants and to harmonise existing legislation with the provisions of other laws, in particular in the area of banking, to adequately address the problem of parking lots, to determine the appropriate amount of fines and to sanction offenders. The proposed version of the law is also not in line with the law on offences. It practically represents the lowest possible sanctions that are covered here. It is very smart, and the Slovenian Democratic Party will also focus on any addition to the law that we will be given to deal with, but we think that it is imperative that we do the procedure as quickly as possible. We believe that the proposed law, which we have already had the opportunity to review significantly better, more comprehensive, more "up to date" and qualitatively covers all issues and will have a significant impact on the development of the capital market in Slovenia and on the order of our acquisition system. With regard to this law, the Slovenian Democratic Party will propose that it is not suitable for further consideration and will focus on the quality of the issues raised by the new law and will seek to adopt this law as soon as possible, as such a law is absolutely necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u243	Thank you. Dr. Matej Lahovnik will move the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Dear Members, Members, Mr President, Minister! The fact is that this law removes some gaps in existing legislation. I am pleased by some general awareness of coalition parties that there is a need to amend legislation. When I introduced this law with a group of Members, the government has not yet prepared an appropriate novelty of this law. If not, I am pleased that this has also accelerated the government's activity in this area, and as we have heard, today the government's law is now passed in government, now I hope it will be in the national assembly as soon as possible and we will be able to deal with and compare it with this law. Another point to be stressed is that this issue is so important that it is unnecessary here to discuss with some client positions, but it is mainly about protecting small shareholders. What we wanted and what we wanted to achieve with this law is to protect small shareholders, too, and in particular in the grey market, where I specifically stressed that there is no control, neither by the stock exchange nor by the Securities Market Agency. The second thing to be pointed out is a manager's buy-out. Manager's buyouts have been coming and coming. Where there may be a risk of asymmetry of information which may be very problematic and based on the fact that some people know more about the business than everyone else and on this basis can take advantage of their position in the company and acquire some ownership stake bought by poorly informed shareholders, this is the case for corporate managers' purchases. This asymmetry of information exists by definition. The management knows more than any other employee or shareholder in these companies. That is why this law regulates this area very precisely, and that is the difference. I am very sorry to say this, but in the law adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this area is much, much worse regulated. You can refer, ladies and gentlemen, to what directive you do not know, to what consistency you may refer, but a government proposal in the case of company purchases does not protect enough small shareholders, does not protect enough other employees in companies. Let me just give you a few examples of what is necessary in the case of taking over our bill, what is all the responsibility of the administration, which are those procedures and procedures that need to be carried out. It is not only necessary to provide an assessment of the value of the undertaking, it is necessary to clearly define the methodology for determining the value of the undertaking, the reasons for the methodology chosen, to determine how the intended acquisition is carried out, to determine and define how the purchase of the undertaking is financed and the loan repayment programme should be financed in order to prevent the acquisition from being financed by the cash flow of the target in order to actually buy the undertaking itself. It is necessary to explain the price offered where it is not equal to the share price resulting from the estimated value of the company. It is necessary to set a threshold for the performance of the offer and it is also necessary to establish a business strategy for the next five years. The report on the intended acquisition must provide that the purchase of the issuer’s securities is not financed by the company’s assets, that is, what I have said is that the company does not buy itself in essence and that small shareholders are briefly drawn. It is necessary to specify the maximum, minimum and average price of shares obtained prior to the production of the intended acquisition report. It should be made clear that there are no facts at the time of the decision on the report that could affect a different decision of shareholders when they give their consent to the contract and are to the administration, so the company's management is known. If it is found that there are any facts that the Administration knew about certain things and that other shareholders did not sell shares, this shall be duly sanctioned. It is also necessary to attach a report on the audit, which must be contained under our 65.f Article of this Act. A statement or contract price for the purchase of securities shall constitute an appropriate price compensation. Why is that important? As the price of the stock on the grey market is often not realistic. It's very rare. In this case, we also protect shareholders by a statement from the auditor. It is necessary to establish very clearly, and the auditor must also make a statement using what methods the contract price has been determined. It must identify any specific problems that have arisen in determining the appropriateness of the price and so on. What is essential, I therefore argue that this law regulates the managers' purchases of businesses in a much more transparent manner. For managers, this law is really difficult in the sense that they actually have to pour all the clean wine, put all the data on the table. If they do not give this information to all shareholders, small shareholders, all employees, it means that they have made the purchase of the company contrary to this law. With this law we introduce a completely additional one, if you want a superstandard, as far as the management purchases of companies for small shareholders are concerned. And now the argument is, if it's possible it's a little late, we can even accept it. Of course, I would also like this to be accepted earlier, but it is necessary to know that a whole range of corporate managers' purchases are planned and will be carried out in the grey market, perhaps also in an organised securities market. That's also what some managers are talking about slowly. The next thing I want to point out, and it needs to be highlighted in particular, is to transform this law into a securities market agency from some sort of sleepy harmless tiger to an institution that acquires a whole range of additional powers. I believe there's no one here who would object. We are trying to give the Securities Market Agency the role played by the US Comparative Institution called Securities and Exchange Commission, where the powers of such institutions in the United States are significantly greater than our Securities Market Agency currently has under the existing law. We therefore grant her a whole range of new powers. It is becoming a criminal authority at Stage I and also the range of penalties is significantly greater. Under this law, a legal person may be punished if he takes over in contravention of the provisions of this Act, including with a fine of up to 90 million tolars and a natural person with a fine of up to 900,000 tolars. So, here, too, the fines are substantially increasing. The next thing to be pointed out is that this law applies to a 25% threshold, which is crucial for the protection of small shareholders, to the capital company, the Slovenian Compensation Society and also to authorised investment companies. Why is that important? We all like to stress the need to ensure a transparent withdrawal of the country from the economy, but we see that many things are also happening under the table. If this law, which we are proposing, had been in force before, the para-state fund would have to offer a bid to small shareholders to take over the company in the case of Gorenje, even in Mercator this story could not have happened as it did. There is a very clear definition of a lower threshold here and I think we all agree that the Capital Society and the Slovenian Compensation Society are also linked to this law. This is also clear. And since shares in all major Slovenian companies have a total of more than 25%, that is, if you want to acquire one additional share, you have to make an offer to take over small shareholders. The capital company and the Slovenian Indemnity Society are subject to the same rules as the other institutions in this country, and I think that anyone would have had a hard time resisting them, especially in these events, which we have witnessed in the last period. And if anyone thinks that, in the case of Mercator, in the case of Gorenje and in some other cases, small shareholders are not injured, then, ladies and gentlemen, it is very wrong. That's what we're trying to do with our law. The next thing I would like to point out in particular, and is crucial, is to know that there is a whole range of so-called authorised companies in Slovenia. Under the existing law, many business administrations, together with employees, have opened or registered the companies of the authorising officers. What happens in three companies authorised with equity shares, at what prices do small shareholders sell their shares? That's a big question. I would argue from this point that through the companies of authorised companies, hidden managers' purchases are being prepared. Many companies have written articles in their statutes so that shareholders can sell their shares only with the consent of the administration - and this is only to the company’s authorised or chosen acquirers. Since these clauses are so defined, the prices of shares in these companies of the authorising officers are also ridiculously low. And this is where there is great damage to small shareholders in Slovenia, and no one reacts. The Securities Market Agency says it has no jurisdiction, but if you respect our law, the matter is very clear. Of course, according to our law, he has the power to act. Of course, it is quite clear that the management of companies under our law must buy out shares more transparently than small shareholders. And if we are actually serious about protecting small shareholders, then we cannot oppose these provisions. Then those who say there is a government law in the procedure, tell me whether it regulates the area of corporate buy-ins in the same way or protects the rights of small shareholders in the same way. I'm saying it's not like that. The next thing to be said is, of course, the relationship between the Securities Market Agency and the Office for the Protection of Competition. This law, as I have already said, provides not only for the possibility of the Securities Markets Agency and the Competition Office exchanging data with each other, but also for their duty. In this way, the right of small shareholders is also further protected, thus the most elegantly preventing the possibility of concerted action, acting in the orchestra of some persons, legal entities in Slovenia, who play the takeover law at the expense of small shareholders. Dear Members, Members and others, what I particularly want to point out is the fact that whatever you can say, including the fact that the government law is now in the process, I am very happy that we are actually all here trying to regulate this area. When we consider a new law, I believe that with most coalition votes you will reject it, remember, managers' redemptions of companies are happening, and in a whole range of these Slovenian companies, where they are happening, especially where they are currently planning, there are small shareholders, there are employees in companies authorised, who have just come up with some shares in this so-called certificate property and want to get some fair price for these shares. In Article 65 of this Law, this law very precisely regulates how these shares can be purchased, how the management of the company can take over, what it needs to do, which are all the procedures it needs to take to avoid the compensation of small shareholders, not to compensate employees, not to compensate former employees, now pensioners who have some of the certified shares they have received in the privatisation process, and in fact do not know how much these shares are worth, so we need the auditor to say whether the price of the shares offered to them is fair or not. Very soon we will see who is really concerned with the rights of small shareholders, who really wants to regulate trading also in the so-called grey market transparently, who in this area also wants control by the Securities Market Agency, which, by the way, in recent weeks and months has neither the spirit nor the hearing, as if nothing is happening in Slovenia, which has somehow silenced. We will also see whether the actual government and coalition are serious about preventing the coordinated functioning of some connected persons. It will also be interesting to see whether this also applies to those cases where these related persons are subject to KAD, SOD, KD Group and some other institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u245	Thank you. Mr Ferri Horvat will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u246	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected minister with a co-worker, a colleague and a colleague. In the Socialist Group of Members, we agree with the proposalers, the group of Members with the first-signed Dr. Matthew Lahovnik, the amendment of the takeover law, the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the issue of the novel or the new takeover law. The fact is that the law in force is outdated, and we agree with that assessment, incomplete and that it has not yet been implemented consistently. In particular, it is high time to ensure the protection and equal position of investors and, in particular, to protect small shareholders, who are increasingly victims of the shortcomings of the applicable law, its inconsistent implementation and even its play. We also agree with the basic principles and objectives of the proposed novel. We believe that taking-over arrangements are more than necessary in accordance with international standards as soon as possible. Procedures must be clearly and clearly defined in the law. Transparency must be ensured. It seems important to us that a clear definition of the role of the country is important, so that the day-to-day policy or government will not be a player in an unregulated system of acquisitions, but that the state governs the system and cares for its consistent implementation, which is in general the role of the state in the economy. In this context, it is essential to give the Agency a greater role and powers for the securities market and to strengthen the effectiveness of the Competition Authority. The conditions for the consistent implementation of the law are the effective control and tightening or tightening of sanctions. The government drafted a proposal for a new takeover law and on the 21st last Friday, put it into parliamentary procedure, we got it yesterday. Some of the principles and objectives, as well as some of the main solutions, are the same or similar when comparing the text of the proposed novel and the government proposal, but due to objectivity it is necessary to find out as quickly as we can that the government proposal is not only more extensive but more comprehensive and more precise. In the Group of Members, we believe that all Members and Members of this Assembly must adopt as soon as possible a new quality legal framework for taking over. It would therefore be useful - I hope that this is not only a pious wish - that the novelist and the government that has proposed the novel, as we have read in the Government's opinion and heard from the Minister, does not support both efforts and goodwill, without prestigious motives and taking into account the good solutions provided by both texts, to help ensure that the State Assembly can adopt a good law as soon as possible. Thus, there will be no repetition of Mercator's and similar stories, and not only will small shareholders remain buyers, as today's Finances say, or not, I would add. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u247	Thank you. Mr Martin Mikolič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u248	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello, well-respected minister with a coworker, distinguished colleagues and colleague! Also in the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the takeover law, which was passed in 1997, is obsolete at the end of the property transformation process and, in particular, because of many Slovenian specificities. The current law contains internally inconsistent definitions that make it difficult to control. It appears that the law, as well as the law, can be implemented inconsistently primarily at the expense of large players in the capital market being able to manipulate, in large cases mainly at the expense of small investors. In the past, this law has enabled the unsanctioned parking of shares and the imprudent takeover of the control of a shareholder company without a public offer for small shareholders. Slovenia's entry into the European Union and the planned economic reforms require a new, appropriate regulation in this area today. Arrangements for acquisitions in accordance with international standards are the basis for effective protection of small investors in our Republic as well. The protection of investors in the securities market must be ensured and it is therefore necessary to eliminate all the transitional features contained in the existing law. Today, in the general debate, we will consider a proposal for amendments and an amendment to the law, a bill introduced by the LDS Group of Members with the first-signed Dr. Matey Lahovnik. The government or the Ministry of Economy has been defined in the opinion on the proposed amendments and additions, and we also agree with this opinion in the New Slovenia Group. The Government is aware of the need to amend or revise the takeover legislation due to the inadequacy of the existing law, as well as of the commitment to implement European Parliament Directives, namely Directive 2004/25. Due to the very important material for Slovenia's economic space in the New Slovenia Group, we welcome the comprehensive solution of the takeover legislation or the new law sent to the Parliamentary procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The changes and additions to the law that are before us today do not reflect a comprehensive solution and do not fully address the shortcomings of the Slovenian takeover legislation that you so like to talk about, respected proponents. Similar content was already sent to the legislative process in 2003 and was withdrawn as inappropriate. Most of the objectives pursued by the law under consideration are addressed in a more comprehensive manner by the government proposal. The fact is that the law under consideration has certain weaknesses that are addressed by the government's proposal for a law. Allow me, dear colleagues and colleagues, to list only a few shortcomings in the proposed novel. I have to say, we've heard most of these before. The proposed amendments and additions lack a comprehensive transposition of Directive 2004/25. Also in our New Slovenia Group, we consider that there is an important flaw that does not adequately implement the provisions of the Directive, which sets out persons who act in a coordinated manner. How to define criteria or define the concept of consistency in order to be able to claim with certainty that persons act in a coordinated manner. If this is not defined by law, then there is no way to remove the hole so far when connected persons take over an undertaking without taking over. The Directive defines persons acting in a coordinated manner, such as natural or legal persons who cooperate with the tenderer on the basis of an express or silent agreement expressed in writing or oral form, whose aim is to gain control of the target company or to prevent the successful outcome of the tender. Only if we are legally able to determine who the connected persons are will there be no infringement of the determination of a reasonable or so-called fair acquisition price. The fair price depends not only on the highest price paid during a given period of the acquirer or tenderer, but also on the person acting in concert with it. Nor does the amendment of the law implement a solution regarding the duty to disclose information to public shareholders in their business reports. Nor does the novelty implement the comprehensive provisions of the Directive, which provides that Member States must lay down rules relating to the powers of supervisory authorities when it comes to companies established in one Member State and their shares are listed on the stock exchange of another Member State. It follows from all this that the proposed amendments and additions do not include a number of solutions necessary for the development of the securities market. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that, at the Ministry of Economic Affairs, with the renewed takeover legislation to be dealt with at one of the future meetings, the shortcomings identified in today's proposal have been addressed. Therefore, takeover legislation in accordance with international standards, takeover legislation with an equivalent and transparent role for all actors, including the country, better protection of the interests of all shareholders and, in particular, minority shareholders. In view of everything that is said in the New Slovenia Group, we will not support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u249	Thank you. Mr Kristijan Janc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings for me, too. Given that there is not too much interest from the proposers of this law in the Chamber, I will try to be as short as possible. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the takeover law regulates or supplements the takeover legislation in Slovenia on the basis of those facts which have proved to be controversial under the provisions of the current law. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we absolutely agree with the proposaler that the change to takeover legislation in Slovenia is necessary and necessary. It is also necessary to amend the law in order to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. Despite the principle of agreement on the need and amendments to the legislation in Slovenia, we cannot change the opinion given by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposed law of the first-signed Dr. Lahovnik. In its opinion, this points to a whole range of shortcomings and inconsistencies in the proposed law. Since this is a fundamental intervention in the field of legislation, it is necessary that the amendment of the law is complete and that it properly and consistently regulates the area of acquisitions in accordance with European law. I don't want to make mistakes, but there's definitely one. According to our assessment, the solution given by the proposer is certainly to the detriment of small shareholders, but not to their benefit and protection. The proposed law also sets out the opinion of the Government. I would also stress the fact that the change of law is also being prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The preparation of government law involves a wider range of state institutions with experts as well as a wider range of external experts. The government plans to forward the bill to the National Assembly next month. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, the bill that we are considering today will not be supported for these reasons, but we expect the government to submit its proposal for a law that will fully systematically address the issue of takeover legislation in Slovenia and properly record that directive of the European Union. We believe that this will happen as soon as possible and that quality changes will be prepared, which will be widely supported, regardless of position and opposition, since this is a complex area of shareholders in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u251	Thank you. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Pike has the floor. I'd like to prepare myself if I consider the absence, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u252	Thank you for your word. Unfortunately, I must find out, as a colleague before me, that my colleague Lahovnik has filed this law too late. I'd say it's pretty late. In his explanation of why he is investing, he was told about the manager's purchases, the irregularities that are taking place there, the damage to small shareholders. These are irregularities and these irregularities should have been stepped on their fingers before they were detected. I think that it would be necessary to put the law, as it is now proposed, into or before the procedure around 2000 because the current law is actually obsolete, from the time of transition when the transition was concluded, and at that time things have changed in a wide range of areas. Of course, we now have European legislation present and we need to comply with European legislation. This is a very important law for the regulation of the capital market. The question, of course, arises why our government did not put such a law before. We had a whole bunch of other very important laws, from the law on companies to the law on aiding companies in difficulty, and we have to wait in order for this law to come. Now the government has also put this law into procedure and now they are in the process of so-called two laws, both the law of colleague Lachovnik and the government. If we analyze each other's laws, we find that something really needs to be done in this area. In practice, the current law has been repeatedly misused to the detriment of small shareholders. This area needs to be given the highest priority and the future government law should be regulated so that it does not occur. The proposed takeover law, which we are now talking about, in my opinion does not comply with EU Directive 2004/25 EC, does not take into account the offence law, does not take into account the problem of Slovenian speciality, of parking shares. The government law is much broader and I also believe our government and the minister and his team that if there is any good in this law that we are considering now, it will also be passed on to the government law to deal with and experience adoption there. The law should take into account the European directive already mentioned, which better protects small shareholders, regulates connected persons, prevents stock parking and gives supervisory authorities greater powers. I cannot support such a law as is now proposed by a colleague of the Lakhovnik of Liberal Democracy for a simple reason because it is too late. However, I hope that this area will be resolved very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u253	Thank you. Mr Kumer has the floor to prepare Mr Hvauc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u254	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Given that I anticipate from the discussions and the Government's view that the majority will reject this bill, I will take this opportunity to make a few views on the subject of acquisitions that still mark our daily life, especially the day-to-day small people, of which something has already been said today, with the hope that the government novelty will change the current practice regardless of the directives which it must take into account in this regard. To tell my humble opinion now. If we lived in a normal society with normal relations and market economy relations, shareholders should be happy to take over because most deserve well. Small shareholders, too. It is true that in these circumstances, in the administration of acquisitions they find themselves in uncertainty and feel threatened, because new owners can replace them, suspend them, abolish ratings, reduce wages and so on, not to mention further. Therefore, in most cases, the administrations try to protect their acquisitions. As a rule, we have different practices and situations. We have the administrations of those who most often have the initiative or even carry out the lobbying skills of taking over businesses for new owners. Even more. There are few cases when administrations are the ones that take over businesses that were set up as managers until yesterday. This is a unique one, in most countries of the European Union, shareholders are happy to take over and are afraid of administrations or managers. We are looking forward to administrations or managers and smaller shareholders, especially small shareholders, except when administrations or board members are sprayed as children in the sandbox, which we have had the opportunity to see in recent weeks in the Mercator case. In recent months, we have the opportunity to follow specific cases more publicly than in the near future when a minority is trying, and groups of Slovenian modern-day tycoons with the help of positive legislation to achieve their goals, let it be a Mutual, Asset Investment, Mercator and so on. In all these cases, it is a similar goal - to kick out small shareholders and thus to enable the new elite to manage the capital independently, which has been created in the past and is still mainly by small shareholders, who are deprived today. Therefore, more than justifiably, the question arises why no one has been found to resist this process to date. I hope that in the new amendment to the law being drawn up by the government, this novel has also been followed by the intention of this proposal, which we will reject today by a majority, in order to protect the majority, this is the one which has created capital with its work, with its knowledge in the past and which it creates today. And there are, of course, many small shareholders among this majority, who would be good enough to be protected by this legislation, of course. One more thing, because it is better that I take advantage of this political debate today. It is not long ago when you will remember the slogan that was, the certificates and their value, their plan, etc. They will give you a better future. 13, 14 years after certificates, we have a new promise, today that we have a reform package that promises prosperity to people. I hope that this reform package too will not happen what has happened in these 13 years with certificates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u255	Thank you. I missed Mr. Starman. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am pleased that before today's hearing, we have also received a proposal for a law tabled by the government, until we could compare individual solutions, otherwise there was not enough time, but I think that most of the solutions in the proposed law are more complete, more precise and better. It is not excluded that it would not be necessary to deal with an amendment itself and it is possible to add an element which, under government law, may be slightly less worked up. It is important that we start this procedure as quickly as possible and adopt this law, which I do not know about, and I do not know why we did not get it on the table as long as it has been renewed, because it has been seen that small shareholders are unprotected, taking into account the specificity of our property transformation. We practically all know that we have become small shareholders in Slovenia and it would be even more necessary to protect the rights of these small shareholders in such a way that we do not lose assets in a speculative way - as I would say. Unfortunately, we can find out if we would be able to analyse the structure of ownership of Slovenian companies, which was then after the distribution of certificates, and the structure of ownership of companies today and, of course, if we were able to look at what some acquired during this period, what some lost, they would get a very interesting picture. Some of these incomplete laws, which allowed all possible manipulations, found themselves; in particular those who had information, those who worked in these companies, and those who had an interest in obtaining greater and, of course, greater shares in these companies. It is not a problem of the market of securities, it is not a problem to sell and buy shares of companies, the problem arises when there is an unfair price, the lack of knowledge of partners or negotiators in individual processes when someone, and this has happened massively, sold ten times, twenty times below the real price, and he still thought that he had well cashed out his one-off capital position when he had capital. That is why I think it is absolutely necessary to define these things as quickly as possible, especially since we are actually in the second phase of privatisation. The first one is over, and we are now coming to the second stage in which the country will have to define its role and impact on the economic system to gain new value. We know that this situation and this role should be as small as possible, but of course no country on the other hand has completely missed all levers of correction, at least in particular sectors such as banking or energy or similar. It is also in the interest of the functioning of the economic system itself to define ownership. We have practically completed the ownership, but we have companies with unconcentrated property, so without defined interests after good business and impact on it, I think the results of the business will be much better when the second phase of privatisation is also carried out, when the country withdraws from the economy and also that the economy will open up outside, not only to speculative interventions that come into our country, but to the normal trade in shares that have a clear content. Investors invest where they expect the highest return, and those companies and those industries that offer good programmes and provide such a higher level of return later also have capital for development, for investment and such companies will then - the economy also has legalities with the securities market that regulate and direct flows that are positive for each country. I want this bill to be supplemented in some places and adopted as soon as possible, but of course I do not see the reason why at least three or four years later this legislation has been adopted, amended because it has allowed so many unjust acts and trades in our space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u257	Thank you. Mr Hwauc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will join myself in the view that the amendment of this legislation is urgently necessary. We do have a law that dates back to 1997, that we do not have some tradition, experience in this area, and that many irregularities, attempts and actual abuses of this existing legislation have been demonstrated during this period, and especially to the detriment of small shareholders. That the government is also aware of this problem, it also shows that in the context of economic and social reforms to increase prosperity in Slovenia, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the end of the previous year, it is also included under measure 22, the tendency to develop a capital market, the planning of the withdrawal from the management and ownership of Slovenian companies, which, in order to improve the capital market, gives rise to the abolition of the transitional features of the takeover law and its alignment with European legislation. Finally, the government has actually taken one step in this area and has made a new, different one, I think, a significantly better proposal for a law than we have at this point in our consideration. I agree with the proposaler that a serious problem is the grey market, that this is a really big problem, but in my opinion we cannot solve it in this law. The problem is that we do not actually have an organised market - without supervision, recklessly, small shareholders often sell, especially in the past, even in distress, at the extremely low cost of their shares that they have acquired in one way or another. However, those who had money that knew how to serve this matter came to a cheap and, in my opinion, an unfair or questionable way of getting important shares in companies. Now that these shares are in one way or another concentrated, in the hands of certain elites, it is now necessary to protect these shares and somehow under the cover of the protection of small shareholders to protect those slightly larger shareholders who, in my opinion, do not belong to this category at all, to the actual small shareholders and their problems that are still manifest today and will probably be present for some time until the legislation of these things completely settles, and I think that this law is under-emphasized. I have a similar thought about manager's buyouts. I agree, as the proposalr put it, the problem is investigative, the problem is information abuse, the purchase of shares from poorly informed small shareholders - this is all true. But it is also true that most of these managers' purchases in Slovenia have already happened, that most of them have passed, and all or most of them have happened in the grey market. These are my concerns about this marriage. And if I may repeat a few more generals, I apologize if I may ever repeat myself. The proposal for a law is not in line with the directives of the European Community. In my opinion, it also does not impose the same rules on all players in the capital market. It is neither coherent nor legally compatible with legislation in other areas, such as company law in the securities market, banking, financial regulations. It does not provide an effective concept for persons acting in a coordinated manner. It's not in line with the law on offences, not to mention, say, more appropriate stock parking and so on. For all these reasons, I do not think that the law under consideration is appropriate for us to adopt it and it will have to be taken more seriously into account. I therefore expect that the government proposal, if it is already in this law that we are dealing with, what is good today, will take these things away, otherwise it will set up a comprehensive concept that will actually take a step forward on the protection of small shareholders, on acquisitions and on the development of the securities market. That is why I will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u259	Thank you. Because I skipped Mr. Friend for misinformation that he doesn't want to talk, I give him my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u260	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I believe in the well-intentionedness of both the government law and the proposed law before us. And I know that they both have investor protection on the securities market as their starting point. However, when we talk about it, it must be said that this savage possession has not yet ended far today, to continue, and this is very frank. And that, in fact, this country is not partial to what is happening today. Two days ago, I addressed the Minister of Justice with a written and specific question, in which I am familiar with the refinement of these new moves. I do not believe that the Minister of Economy, as well as the Minister of Justice, will be any other ministry, if they do a little bit of work, and I am also thinking of the official bodies of persecution, so that we can eradicate this. What's this all about? Just look, no one controls how these shares are actually sold that are withdrawn from the sale. No one has in fact the possibility of insisting that a court's decision is actually carried out and that the proceedings here are short. We do know, however, that time plays a role in these matters and the last case has been taught for all of us, when the Director, in fact, admitted to the guilt that, contrary to the GAG, contrary to the law, he was buying up shares, to which he essentially took the decision of the Court, which was quite correct, to appeal, to obtain some time, to a higher court, the judgment will continue for two, three years, he will be able to do what he thinks. And that's most of those cases when basically stories end like this. Of course, there is too much damage to social property, no one is responsible and what bothers me most is that in Slovenia there is no need to prove the origin of property. You know, the fact that someone got a couple of billion in money in ten years, that's not normal, neither of us can just earn it, even if it's given to him, I don't know what the management function is. And we've got some of these people. Of course, Slovenians and Slovenians are in the way, but their voice doesn't come to us. Some of them are unemployed, 100,000 of them are unemployed. We also have no problem with the fact that some of the factories were sold to foreigners and closed for the second day. We have an example here on Tivolski - Tobacco. And I wouldn't mention the others when we just sold them, but they were Slovenian pride - Elan. Today we see, say, just in Elan a nice, informative story, when we reward for the successful work of supervisors and managers who sold the same company to Croats, then they buy it back dearly and today they collect it for the successful work of fat money, and we know that this is not in accordance with the law, that it is not a normal way to earn money, and no one bothers with it. That's a fact. Of course, these people who have lost their constitutional right to work because of our dealing with social property are on the verge of survival, somewhere a marginal group that none of us - otherwise I am interested in these people, you seem to be, no; someday they will also require them to return to this injustice in some other context, perhaps in the context of some violence, and we will wonder why this is happening to us. There are more and more demonstrations. Today, adopting a law on changes and additions to the takeover law in such a way that almost everything has been stolen, with such a time dimension - this part also bothers me, is too long. From the moment we let that happen, until the moment we install some security guards, it's a shame, to say the least. And let them steal what is left, and peace! Isn't it true? That's the best way to do it! The minister laughs, but it's true. They should take what's left. Look, I'm pretty sure this government's gonna have to do something. It will have to establish at least what other European countries have. I'm close to Italy, and successful entrepreneurs are afraid to buy a new car. They're afraid to buy it because they have control the other day. With us, the averages, including the politicians who were before yesterday with the moped in Roška, we shouted together, today have such enormous sums that I can't even imagine how much "zero" is for the first number. Some have set up unbuyed guarantee shares to get credit, but today they are rich, they challenge politicians and laugh at them in a mustache. But politics also likes to brag about who it has put in such places. And we've heard, say, from LDS, watch out, I put you in this place, what you're doing. This video was on TV a number of times. Today this same man buys half of Slovenia. It's embarrassing, but some people don't have to eat, they don't have to survive, they can't give kids for school, they can't pay for lunch. And we need to think about that when we adopt such laws. It's a post-festum thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u261	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members of Parliament, Mr. Secretary! Allow me to comment briefly and contribute to this general debate on the reasons why it would be reasonable to adopt a law on changes and additions to the takeover law and why, now that we have already a government law on takeovers in the National Assembly, I believe that these two laws are in certain parts of an important conflict, and in that case, which, in our opinion, is such that it would be appropriate today to decide that the law should be forwarded further to the second reading and that the government should actually withdraw its law. I will begin with the principles and purposes of the law. The law, which we have signed a few days before Mr Janša's initiative for the so-called Partnership for Development, may indeed be a mistake not to have been signed by several other Members of those parties who last Tuesday, this week will be signed by the Partnership for Development, because it might be easier to discuss the content of the law today, not who proposed it. Well, if we are talking about the content of the law, then it is very interesting to compare the principles and objectives of the law of the group of Members compared to the principles and objectives of the law as proposed by the government. We believe that every law must be written in accordance with the legal order in force in each country, especially when we try to remedy any shortcomings in existing legislation in the law or when we want to regulate more clearly the intention of the legislator on a particular subject. And there was no one in this room today who would not agree that one of the biggest problems of taking over legislation in Slovenia is that at a time when we have things like taking over Lek or taking over Mercator, small shareholders are not adequately protected. Therefore, the main objective of this law, as proposed by the Members, is the Group of Members, in this [[I quote page 31 of the Rapporteur of 16 February]] "to regulate the acquisition process by amending the law, which will further enforce the principle of the protection of small shareholders in the process of taking over the company." In government law, principles and goals, on a page that is not marked, there is hardly a word about it. It only says that "the aim of the law with legal changes is to create a modern legal framework of the takeover legislation that will be in line with Directive 2004/25 EC and the developing instruments of the European Community" and then "implement the key principles of the takeover legislation". There are no very clear targets on small shareholders. The government simply says that "it wants to follow the key principles aimed at protecting the interests of all and, in particular, minority shareholders". This is the same logic as yesterday's comments and counter-offers, or a small shareholder's counter-proposal by Mercator's President of the Mercator administration, I suppose the President of the Mercator administration, at the will of this government, that, of course, all shareholders are equal, have the same right and that, of course, it is fine if only some shareholders are invited to recapitalise. And that logic, Mr. Secretary, is moving forward through your marriage. In our law, we have put a great deal of emphasis on the legal protection of small shareholders, and if we link this to the law on the legal successors of authorised investment companies - a law that is currently interrupted in the second reading by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, but we are still waiting for Minister Bajuk to come with his law - the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not want to protect small shareholders with its law. That's one point. Why is that? This is so because, with the exception of large companies - because I think it is absolutely clear to everyone that it is not possible to have acquisitions that would be different from that of course we are implementing them in some way under the legislation that is just defined by the rules of the securities market, there is one of the greatest possible abuses of possible managers' acquisitions. That's what the government's law on takeovers is silent about. The Government's takeover law omitted the provisions of the existing takeover law, which were the main blocking factor that, of course, we did not have a larger number of managers in Slovenia than would have been the case if these articles were abolished. In fact, it was very clear that Articles 65.d to 65.f state very precisely what should be recorded in the report on the intended takeover and, of course, within this one of the key issues, what method of financing the purchase of the company and the programme of repayment of credits. And, of course, a very important provision is that for each such intended takeover there is also a audit report, which must be very precise, using what methods the contract price has been determined, and which methods were, and in particular, that this is stated by an auditor who is not an auditor who is otherwise carrying out the audit of the issuer company. We Members of the Liberal Democracy, of course, made a mistake before the start of the Partnership for Development initiative, when we did not invite some of them to sign this law, so we are now suffering that statement or suffering for those statements made by the Prime Minister that not only will it be important who, but it will be particularly important what is being proposed. And Mr Minister, if you would look at the provisions of the bill and the provisions of the existing law and really incorporate them into your takeover law, then I believe that your marriage would be a little longer, but in particular it would be much more appropriate to respond to all the dilemmas that will arise in Slovenia a few years after we have completed the formal process of property change. Thus, our comments on what we are hearing today, but we hear in particular the disagreement between the ruling coalition and the bill, so above all, that you are still thinking mainly about the fact that this law has been proposed by members of the opposition, but unfortunately we see through the analysis of the government law that you do not want to adopt this law also because it is impossible for managers to take over. The Government then, in its opinion, lists a whole lot of completely inappropriate indications to me why this law is not appropriate, including references from the so-called harmonisation of this law with the law on offences, but everyone who knows little procedure knows that it is possible to supplement such provisions in the procedure, as far as will is concerned. If you decide today that this law must be rejected, then I ask you to consider all those provisions which are not in the takeover law and which should respond to the Slovenian reality before the procedure under the takeover law continues. And the Slovenian reality is that we are prepared, in my opinion, also with the knowledge of this government - as the Mercator case and something else - which is a few potential managers' acquisitions, and therefore it is not appropriate for the protection of small shareholders that you have missed the provisions of the existing takeover law, which specifically restricts these possible acquisitions. However, I would be happy if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would continue to do something on the other side of the law, according to the second part of this takeover legislation, but this is when we talk about the functioning of legal successors of authorised investment companies, because we probably all agree here, at least members of the ruling coalition talked about some individuals because in these companies the company administrations forgot why, in fact, they had been awarded the 2%, 3% of the management premium each year, because they had forgotten to manage these companies on behalf and for the account of all but not small groups of shareholders. Well, I haven't heard enough arguments to deny this law. As it now seems, you reject it mainly because it is not proposed, and because you want to leave the management takeover of the so-called wild market with your law. And I believe that in the coming years in this National Assembly, like we did a few months ago in the case of the Mutual, we will meet with such or other anomalies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u263	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u264	Thank you very much. I would like to make this very clear about the substantive reasons why the government opposes this; and on the contrary, we think that this law, which is being dealt with here today, is a bill sent by law that is harmful to small shareholders. I'll explain on specific occasions why. For the first time because it does not implement the provisions of the directive, because we need to know that some small shareholders are also employed at the same time. And the provisions of the Directive explicitly require the information of workers, and this law does not implement it at all. It is necessary to provide mandatory notice of the take-over, immediate and free delivery of the prospectus to the representatives of the workers, and also to send the opinion of the management of the target company on the take-over offer to the workers. This is not what your law takes into account, but the need for a directive is also a key protection for small shareholders and employees. The second, even more important thing, which is quite eclectic in contrast to the interests of small shareholders, is a fair price. Do you know how you set a fair price in your marriage? The fair price is the one at which the acquirer purchases securities for the last six months or so. This is said to be the case if the acquirer works in line with someone else, who works in a coordinated manner offering a higher price, the acquirer offers a lower price and then the takeover bid is lower than the acquirer, even for small shareholders. That is to say, if someone who works with the taker in a coordinated manner offers 100 units each, and the taker has 30 units before that, then, of course, the fair price is thirty units offered by the taker. However, our solution is that the fair price is the price at which both the person acting with the consignee is coordinated and the consignee offers the last 12 months and this is a fair price that is significantly higher. And this is the protection of small shareholders! Your provisions are to play small shareholders.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u265	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u266	Thank you very much. I wouldn't believe the Minister of Economy said that. This is ordinary populism and no professional arguments. Mr. Secretary, what are you talking about? Have a look at the existing takeover law, and let me tell you how you regulate the managers' purchases of businesses in this law adopted by your government, and let me know here who is the author of this law, Mr. Minister, who are the authors and what interests are behind. Why don't you manage company purchases in a special article. We regulate this in section 64 of the Act. Tell us how you will arrange for corporate buy-outs in non-disclosure companies, what is the status of shareholders in companies authorised! It protects the interests of small shareholders! What you said six months, 12 months, no problem. If this is the only problem, the amendment may extend this period to 12 or 24 months. But in your law, you don't even regulate managers' purchases. Where are you inside? What is the role of the auditor in your marriage? Here it is very clear that the audit report should contain a statement: firstly, the auditor's statement that it has not carried out an audit in the company of the issuer in the past three years - it is said that it is to be found that it is related to them - then very clearly, whether the contract price for the purchase of securities constitutes an appropriate price compensation, by means of what methods the contract price has been determined, any difficulties encountered in determining the appropriateness of the price. What is the main problem of Slovenia? Grey Square! And on the gray market, whether you take the stock price 12 or 24 months before the takeover offer itself, you get almost the same result. There are no essential differences. The problem is that during all this period, the buying-in of enterprises in the grey market is imprudent without anyone telling the target shareholders what this offer is. And that's why the role of auditor is specifically defined here! And it is not really a major problem in Slovenia for listed companies. That's the main problem. The main problem is the shareholders of those non-listed companies, shareholders of companies with shares traded on the so-called grey market. And if we're talking about managers' buyouts, there's just the biggest problem, because managers have the most information, more information than employees, than ex-employees, as well as possible small shareholders, and so in the 64th and 65th articles, we are very precisely regulating corporate buy-outs, including in the non-disclosure companies. Now I challenge you, tell me how in your law, if you are so explicit here, you regulate by which members, managers' purchases of companies in non-disclosure companies, and we can very simply compare the standard in this law and the standard in that law proposed by the government. And it will be very interesting to make this comparison, and then the Slovenian public will actually see what the interests of small shareholders and what the authors of government law wanted to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u267	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u268	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister and to all present in the Chamber. I will certainly not support this bill alone, not because of this thought, as my colleague has said before me, whose names I will not mention in vain, because he has always had enough impulses to advertise over and over and over again. What can we say about the proposed law? If only the beauty correction of that law, which was proposed in 2003 and was withdrawn at that time, then in these three years the applicants have not learned much or have not now had any greater serious intention to regulate the law, I think, a rather difficult and difficult problem. Above all, I will not support the bill because of all the shortcomings that have been heard and mentioned so far, particularly the non-compliance with the Directive of the European Union, which mainly reflects the lack of sufficiently defined and described or defined as connected persons, then the problem is not sufficiently addressed or it is not defined how it is to be taken over by international or mixed companies when shares are listed in another country or on another country's stock exchange. In particular, it is not sufficiently defined or defined as a fair price, nor are there any inconsistencies with the applicable offences laws. First of all, it's not good enough to protect small shareholders, so I'm sure I won't support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u269	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the takeover law. This law was introduced on 10 February. This is, in my opinion, at a time when known people in London were preparing to take Mercator over the Cayman Islands, which erupted a little later. This law was meant to be a smoke screen that would create a demagogy in front of the Slovenian public and even talk about protecting small shareholders. If, thanks to the government, things were not to be divulged, today would probably be in a situation where people with highly questionable political - business relatives would be quoted as mayoral candidates, perhaps here in Ljubljana, and would eventually sell Ljubljana to the south. The first-signed and other applicants, of course, had the opportunity to adopt this law as ministers in a significantly better form in 2003-2004, when Mr Lahovnik was Minister, but at that time they thought it was too early to even implement such solutions. Because at the time, some of the ladies who used to be secretary of state to Mr. Rope wrote legislation that the Activa Group later skillfully used to displace small shareholders. It is the same nest of people who acted at the time as connected persons and still act as connected persons today. It does not surprise me, therefore, as has been heard many times before, that this law does not regulate or conflict with the interests of small shareholders, that it does not set a fair price, that it does not solve the problem of connected persons and so on. He came to the hearing at a purely different time, at a time when the party belonging to the signatories did not know from which scenario their president were from, whether they were C or G scenario, but came at a time when this party waved with some manifesto, after Marks the second manifesto. It seems that with such laws and with such solutions, which, I hope, have been equally thought out, the same as a Trojan horse, such as that legislation, under which the Activata Group, which was made by famous ladies, tried to push out small shareholders. While you even write here that "the right to expropriation and the right to sell minority shares has been introduced" which is probably positive, which is not yet advertised in any legislation at that time. But I think the solutions are images like some used. And, gentlemen, if you think anyone is going to get caught in legislation that was meant to be a Trojan horse, by which you would continue to work in the old ways, according to this, I would say, a business-political pedigree you've created in the past years, you've made a mistake. And also your manifesto, based on such foundations as you have foreseen here, will have the same consequences as Marks' manifesto for the judiciary, the communist, would have similar consequences for Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u271	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u272	Mr. President! I've been thinking about whether or not to make a procedural proposal, but you know, first I have to apologize for laughing. I laughed because I did not believe what Mr Jerovšek was going to say, but after I understood that he was talking about the smoke screen, I would like to tell him that smoke mines and other weapons are usually used by those who have the authority to give the opposition the law on changes and additions to the takeover law in order to allow Janša to take over the Mercator, which is a little barefoot. So that's why I laughed. However, the procedural proposal is as follows. Mr President, we are really discussing the law on changes and additions to the takeover law, and I am debating, indeed, it is also true that some of us went to the debate also in the Government's takeover law, because the comparison is substantive, some of which was also discussed by the Minister himself, but I would still ask that Mr Jerovsk try to focus on the debate concerning the takeover legislation, but not all the other matters that we have heard today, but not only on the smoke curtains, I am also referring to some incorrect statements. This is my procedural proposal if it is possible to frame the debate on the two laws currently in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u273	Thank you. This was also beyond the rules of procedure, because I cannot put this to the vote. Mr. Testen has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u274	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! [[There's no messenger.]] I feel that such an important and large party as the LDS is proposing such an unconstitutional amendment to the law on additions to the takeover law. This is because they always like to advocate the harmonisation of legislation with existing legislation. Those who have looked closely at this proposal of their law are not in line with the law on companies and also with certain other laws, the law on infringements and the law on the market in securities, and are not harmonised, have been repeatedly said by Directive 2004/25. I personally expected that today we would talk much more about whether it is in Slovenia, given the European experience and the legislation other European countries have, is the assumption threshold of 25%, which is set out in this proposal, the right threshold or not. Practice shows that in other countries this threshold is significantly different or higher in most cases. From the point of view of small shareholders, which we have many times advocated, it is likely that a lower threshold is better, since it is necessary to publish a takeover offer at a lower threshold. As far as stock parking is concerned, on the other hand, the low threshold is much more dangerous because it calls for the uncontrolled arrangement and parking on shares at different locations and ends across all possible companies and then negotiate the management of the company and takeover is not necessary at all. As regards the definition of connected persons in this law, which is now proposed by the LDS, I miss the definition of connected persons here. I do not think that this law offers a solution to what are connected persons, how to define connected persons, and for me it is one of the key and essential things if we want to adopt this law and if we want it to work as we want it to. Much has been said about what a fair price is. I think the Minister has made it very clear and clear that the fair price is not the one offered by the taker, but the fair price is the one offered by all those who are connected in a certain desire to take over a particular company, and the highest price among all these is the fair price. Well, to conclude, I might say that we will not support this proposal personally and even in our own group of Members. However, we will support this law if it offers some good solutions, and we also propose that it be incorporated into the government's law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u275	Thank you. Mr. Veršnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u276	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues [[No colleagues]] Oh, my God! We have before us a proposal for a law on changes and additions to the takeover law, which is one of the main culprits for what is happening on the market and in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party should not be happening. Small shareholders who have submitted their certificates have invested their savings or even leased loans to banks and have purchased equity shares in this more or less wild privatisation, where the managers of these small equity shareholders thought that such small shares were undesirable and are therefore effectively driven out of the ownership structure by various manipulations. Today, when most of the work is done, there is a savior, honourable Member, proposing amendments and supplementing the takeover law. Of course, this law has been put into procedure, I think, only for propaganda reasons, is not well thought out, sufficiently adapted to the current situation. In view of the proposed law, I cannot support it and also for the reason that there is already a government proposal in the parliamentary procedure, which is inadequately better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u277	Thank you. Mr. Ferry Horvat has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Mikolitch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Somehow we are all opinions and it is not too much to mention once again that the current takeover legislation we have is really quite problematic given that it allows for different speculations. And that is why this takeover legislation needs to be amended, in short, to include European directives and, above all, to adapt the law to today. The very problem of the proposed law is that this proposal does not, in fact, reflect a comprehensive solution and thus do not address the shortcomings contained in the law currently in force. I also believe that those good solutions, and if they are not fully covered by the government proposal, can, of course, be included and supported, if necessary. However, it is interchangeable that we started talking about the managers' buyouts, which have been a lot of talk today by the proponents, especially since the power was changed. The first-signed proposaler himself mentioned that this issue began to be resolved too late, and you admit it yourself, not two years ago, but it would have been necessary for legislation to be replaced on this segment eight or five years ago. Today it has been heard, and I also believe that the greatest machinations have been done in this area. We can't say today that there won't be any manager's ransoms in the future. Of course they will, but given the pretensions that have been made in this segment, even if we are changing legislation or not, I also believe that the question of how much more irregularities such as have occurred in the past would not be possible today. That is why I will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u279	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u280	Thank you very much. The Government does not support the proposed law of Members with the first-signed Dr. Matey Lakhovnik. Firstly, because it is not in line with the takeovers directive, this is said to be the case with the European acquis. That's a good reason. But let's also go into the content. The law is also not in line with the rules already adopted. Based on the old 2003 draft, which was also tabled in the parliamentary procedure. At the very least, the proposed law covers small shareholders. For what is important for a small shareholder or for shareholders in general, especially for a small one - to get, whenever necessary, of course, when it comes to taking over, takeover and get a fair price. In particular, take-up offers are not properly regulated by this law because they are not explicitly defined by persons acting in a coordinated manner. Here is this law, which is a Member law that is not in line with the directive. The Directive sets out very clearly which persons acting in connection and does not summarise this amendment to the law of this Directive. That's the first thing. But the other is about a fair price. The fair price under the proposed law is not correctly defined and can be obtained at a substantially lower price than those of persons or persons acting with the acquirer in a coordinated manner bought on the market in the last 6 months. For in this law is the righteous price of the one determined by the taker or by whom the taker has purchased the last 6 months. I think that there must also be persons who act in harmony with it. It's an anomaly. But most importantly, I stress now that there are no sanctions for infringements. Indeed, according to the government proposal, infringements are sanctioned by taking all voting rights, not just those that exceed the 25% threshold, to an acquirer who did not respect the takeover legislation. That's an essential difference. Thus, it is not only a formal reason that the government does not support this. Above all, there are substantive reasons that I have now counted quickly. The Securities Market Agency also has significantly greater powers and has active legitimacy in the event of the resolution of voting rights being sanctioned. The law is not in line with the Directive on informing workers and small shareholders who are required to receive a compulsory notification of their intention. In short, it is a series of substantive shortcomings, so we consider the law inappropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u281	Thank you. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Lahar, Queequel, Minister. I've got three applications. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Everybody's got five minutes. Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u282	Thank you very much. I guess it's time for the replica then, or is it over every five minutes? Probably. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u283	Debate, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u284	In short, what I would like to stress first is the inaccuracies expressed by Mr Minister. Mr. Minister has just shown that he has not read this law at all. I can understand him here because they made their own marriage. But it is true that I passed the takeover law because the government did not respond in time. I've waited a year. I gave this government time for a year, and there was nothing. After a year, I have just introduced this takeover law, which is now, as you yourself have found, two and a half months in the parliamentary procedure, the government law is not yet in place. In fact, now the government has accepted it, you took it together last week and accepted it. The second thing that is very interesting; what the gentleman said earlier on my right, which was Mr Jerovšek, was who was behind him, the person he had in mind behind the government law because he was in the working group of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And let him take a look at things so there was a whole bunch of inaccuracies. What I want to stress in particular is that there are no sanctions, it's funny. It explicitly states in the article that sanctions up to 90 million tolls are fines for legal persons and up to 900 000 tolls for natural persons. As far as concerted action is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, don't move, please! Already in the existing law, concerted action is very clearly sanctioned. The orchestrated operation of connected persons shall be prohibited and shall be sanctioned. The Securities Market Agency should have acted long ago. If we take it, I'll illustrate the specific case of Mercator. If A, B and C in the office meet with the Prime Minister in the Office of the Prime Minister and one week later, persons A, B and C perform the Mercator transaction and tell the entire Slovenian public that they are acting independently, it would be funny in the United States of America. The Securities Market Commission would severely sanction them. And we're told that they've been talking about -- I don't know what the weather is outside, about the future of their businesses, they're wondering how all the weights are, how it upsets us at all, how they got together, and -- "nothing to anybody." This is possible in Slovenia. That's not possible in the United States. Look at the practice of what is happening, according to the existing legislation we have. Also in this law, which I propose, the Securities Market Agency has all the powers to take action in such cases. The question is whether the Director of the Securities Market Agency hopes to ask and ask the Prime Minister, and he has all these powers. What was discussed at that meeting on 12 August to ask the remaining three actors, one of whom was a person who participated in that meeting, you will not believe, even in the working group for the preparation of the government's takeover law. And then this person will talk about coordinated action and how harmful it is. I'm asking you nicely, because you still have those contracts that you sold Mercator under, you don't hope to show it to the public! Why not? Once again, I will give you an example of coordinated action as to how this is determined under this law. If the contract whereby, say, the company a purchased shares from the capital company is exactly the same as the contract whereby the company b purchased shares of the same company from the Slovenian Compensation Company, then it is clear that this is not a coincidence. If different contracts came from the same college and so on, then it's clear that this isn't a coincidence. And these matters are thus identified in the United States, ladies and gentlemen, and the Securities Market Commission has these powers there. It is only a matter of hope that the Securities Market Agency will exercise the powers conferred by this law, which we have put into the procedure. That's the question. But the rest is kind of more about the artistic impression that the government is saying. Very simple. To find out who the connected persons are and what the coordinated operation is and we all know what the orchestrated operation is and that such action is to the detriment of the small shareholders who lose in such cases. These things are clear and must be given to the Securities Market Agency, such powers as this law offers, and then strictly exercise these powers. The question is whether in these circumstances, such as in Slovenia, the securities market agency hopes to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u285	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u286	What we have today is actually a discussion of how someone understands transition or transition. We understand the transition in such a way that there were no acquisitions that would have been carried out without taking-over bonuses for public limited companies until this government's appearance. And the Minister himself said that if this law or someone had declared whether it was at a press conference, I think that if you had been the takeover law as proposed by the government before that famous meeting of the Prime Minister with persons A, B and C, then you should have made an offer to take over. Of course, we claim that there are quite a few provisions of the existing takeover law, 4. i.e., an article that says that even under the provisions of the existing law and under the provisions of certain other rules of the game, which the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Economy knows very well - it is a pity that she is not with us today - such an offer should be made. Last but not least, one of the speakers from Mladina who says it's kind of strange that KAD and SOD, when they were selling Mercator, did not publish an ad to collect publicly and now KAD and SOD for Vrvica d.o.o., in which the share of KAD is a million tolars, have made a public offer. The takeover law protects small shareholders. This is its main objective, and we want to make this protection even stronger by amending the law on the amendment of the takeover law. In particular, in the potential cases of non-disclosure companies that are in Slovenia, which are in significant numbers, we want to define certain provisions by means of a law on changes and additions to the takeover law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is silent in its takeover law. Don't talk about what the report on the intended takeover has to do, don't talk about the role of the auditor, and I assume that it will end those provisions at any time in the statute of the SOD and in good rules of behaviour of the masters, such as the KAD d.d., who say that public offerings should be made. Therefore, today, if the will of the ruling coalition is to be upheld, in particular, you will allow the practice of taking over businesses without a takeover premium, and this is what your Prime Minister himself has been talking about, Mr Janša spoke in Krsak that the company that has been taken over cannot be taken over again. He himself confirmed that KAD and SOD, when they sold Istrabenzu and Lashke, had actually enabled the company to take over. If you've done it, and I believe you've done it, I think 19,000 small shareholders have been injured in this business. We have opposed a number of provisions, especially the decisions of the Supervisory Council in the case of Mercator, which, of course, have proposed that only some have the exclusive right to capitalisation and the government or the CAD and the SOD have not included among those who have the right to capitalisation in Mercator, when they have had the time, all the small shareholders, but have chosen this right for themselves, the SOD and the managers. It is interesting, however, that these persons are then a, b and c, KAD and SOD, who are their property beneficiaries by a contract signed before the assembly where one of the small shareholders exchanged, that these three persons are a, b and c, and then signed a contract on how they will continue to take over this company when the government did not take advantage of the takeover premium. If the government does not intend to regulate the takeover law more precisely, then today, by rejecting this law, you will only allow the poor management of the Slovenian economy to continue and that gifts will be given to Janša's friends in the context of this poor governance. This is a bad policy, Mr Minister, and I therefore propose that we look very carefully at the provisions of the existing and new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u287	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u288	Thank you very much. In fact, I am pleased that, in this takeover law, we have one opportunity to test on the one hand, how it looks at one important transition, not just the transition, but also the developmental and economic dilemma of the opposition and how the government sees it. That is why we actually have two proposals ahead of us. One proposal that is not in line with the takeovers directives, which is not in line with the Slovenian acquis, which is harmful to small shareholders who are harmful to employees and who do not regulate which does not clearly address key acquisition dilemmas. On the other hand, an alternative that you could read is based on a long-term professional discussion of all institutions dealing with this issue in Slovenia. It has been invited by independent experts, experts, institutions, higher education institutions and has, in fact, been created in a harmonised, modern, takeover law. I have told you many times why I consider this proposal for a new takeover law to be harmful to small shareholders, and I will repeat it again. For the first time because it is vaguely defined by persons acting in a coordinated manner. The Securities Market Agency will have the same difficult task and will repeatedly express itself inappropriately because it is so vaguely written an article which speaks of persons acting in conjunction that it will in fact be a permanent burden on this agency and the result will be painful, as it is now. Therefore, in the government proposal, we have in fact set up a domain where persons act in a coordinated manner and they have to challenge it, so the burden of proof is on the part of these persons. The second flaw is the fair price. What does it matter to a small shareholder? To get an offer and get a fair price for an offer. The fair price is determined, as I said, by the last price in the last 12 months, after which both the acquirer and those who act with the acquirer have offered and purchased shares. And you're suggesting that it's only the price that the taker is willing to pay. Therefore, if the acquirer has a person acting in a coordinated manner, it offers it at three times the price, no, it is not a fair price, the fair price is that three times the price offered by the acquirer. And that's offered to the small shareholders. Three times the price. This is possible after this proposal, so the proposal is bad. The proposal is also poor because it does not respect the directive on mandatory information to workers about the takeover offer. The Directive explicitly provides that prospectus workers must be informed of the take-over offer and of their views on this take-up offer. There are no such provisions in your novel. Third time. The Securities Market Agency shall be granted active legitimacy to take action if the takeover law has been breached, if the takeover has occurred, but there has been no takeover offer. Withdrawal of all voting rights in the Assembly. This is a very important sanction. It is also very important that the government law also covers KAD and SOD and does not define them as exceptions. In your marriage, you define KAD and SOD as an exception. You speak in terms of the provisions that the provisions of this Act do not apply to KAD and the SOD up to a threshold of 25%. Why this exception? Look, I'm going to quote you on this provision that's in your marriage. You say that KAD and SOD are some remarkable, and not just KAD and SOD. Why are these exceptions in marriage, please? No, they are not the same rules because these specific legal persons are exceptions. We do not define them as exceptions, but treat them the same way as all other legal persons. Therefore, once again, as I have said before, the takeover law will also apply to them, which of course has not been the case so far. The law also regulates managers' buyouts, in fact they are governed by all acquisitions. I just want to clarify once that the procedure and concerted operation in government law are transparent, the procedure is clear, the powers of the Agency and the competent institutions are strong and effective. Of course, the comparison is in fact very clear and shows when and where support is to which law. But what I said about KAD and SOD is in section 32 of your law. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u289	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. Time's up. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today in the framework of the vote in half an hour, which is at 18.45. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the assembly meeting, which we'll resume at 6:45.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u290	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please calm down, take your seats. We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on parental protection and family benefits, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We move on to Article 7, to decide on the amendment of the SNS, LDS and SD to Article 7. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u291	Thank you. Allow me to repeat the explanation of this amendment to Article 7. Restricting the possibility of transferring work for the care and protection of children up to 8 years of age to only 3 years of age is a reduction in the current right. And let me tell you that I did not read this explanation from the explanations of the parliamentary groups that you have appointed and which are now being tabled, but from the explanation given in the proposal by the amendment of the parent working body which was discussed on the Committee and signed by the Member, Comrade Anton Kokalj. Similarly, he had a similar justification for Article 6, which is even more crucial than Article 7, but Article 6 could no longer be opened. What am I trying to say? It's interesting that Minister Drobnič is not only blowing up at the opposition's views, but he's also kind of blowing up at the position of coalition partners. Of course, this arrogance does not upset us, but it does upset us to be arrogant toward our mothers or fathers, who are now deprived of some of the rights that were given earlier. That is why I ask you, also coalition partners, to follow not only our amendment, but also the parent working body proposed by colleague Kokalja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u292	Thank you. There are two things I'd like to remind you of. Please don't argue with people who aren't in the hall, or if they are, they can't replicate. The second thing is, who wants to explain his voice on behalf of the Group of Members, should immediately say, on behalf of the Group of Members, otherwise be considered on his own behalf. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u293	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Members, I explain that the Group of Members will not only table an amendment, but will also vote in favour of an amendment in which we want to preserve the right or the possibility that the father chooses to use a free paternity leave for the care and protection of the child until the age of 8. No reasonable reason has been heard by the Socialist Group of Members, which would justify shortening time to this extent, in order to prevent this right, which does not cost the State, and allows the father to take free leave for the care and protection of the child until the child is eight years old. Indeed, it can be argued that efficiency is important that the Treasury has to deal economically with public funds. I would point out that this is not a public fund, it is a father's free decision in agreement with his mother, probably when he will take advantage of this option in the 75 days. I imagine that recording such a right is a certain obstacle. It is true, however, that we have recently adopted a law that centralises records, so it will be easier for the state, for the government, for the executive branch of the authorities to review the exercise of this right. Secondly, what needs to be added is the argument that it is right for parents to be more important to their children by the time they are three years old, to fade away from the fact that in some other solutions, the legislator considered that they were not three years of age the limit to which a right was to be extended, but to the child's sixth year of age and beyond. We will therefore vote in favour of this amendment, regardless of the fact that the first amendment will be one of the other parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u294	Thank you. Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Otherwise, my amendment is no longer in the debate. My amendment was tabled for a committee on which he was rejected democratically. I tabled it myself because I believe that this is such a non-essential change that the amendment of the law meant it was pointless to introduce it and I have proposed that it should remain as it was. The democratic majority clearly decided differently and, as I said, I respect it, and it makes no sense in this sense to force their heads through the wall, given that this matter, in my opinion, is not really relevant in this law. It's not really a major change. More importantly, other changes that have been introduced, which significantly improve the attitude toward the family or parental assistance. I have also said publicly how I will define myself when this has been democratically voted on the committee and the committee has not warmed up to this amendment that I have tabled. So much so that some have so much in common with me. I am pleased, however, that sometimes we only find a common point and that we are all close to caring for the family, and I expect there to be any further positive change in the legislation, that we will also be supported by the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u296	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u297	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members. I would not agree that this is a minor change. It is a major change, it is a reduction or a right, it is a right to free choice. I wonder who in this country will decide what's best for the child. Until now, it was up to parents, fathers, mothers. Will Minister Petty Officer now make a new decision about what is best for the children, what is best for the parents? I would ask once again, given that we have heard in the debate that New Slovenia does not, in principle, oppose this amendment to support the amendment. It's about, I believe, a positive change. And I'm going to say, no change, because there's already a right of choice in the law today that fathers have up to 8 years of age for children. Why take this right or right to shrink to just 3 years of age? Once again, I ask you to listen to and support the amendments of the Slovenian National Party or amendment, followed by the amendment of the Liberal Democracy and Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u298	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Surely there is no argument that you are talking about, that this right should be maintained for up to eight years, you know, how this is a great thing. This was not an interesting right for the affected, for this right has benefited very few people. According to the Group's position, there is a better solution to the three-year limit, which may encourage a substantial number of fathers to take this leave and allocate it to their child at a more sensitive time in their lives. After children go to kindergarten and school, this is less important, and there is no need to hold the child’s hand continuously. Your arguments are bad. But we will not oppose the amendment of these three parliamentary groups that it will not turn out that we are against the child's benefits, even though we are convinced that the solution we have written down for three years is better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u300	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 9. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 15. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u301	This time on behalf of the Group of Members. Dear partners, development partners, this amendment certainly supports the trends recorded in various strategies, but also in the spirit of reformers. It is said that parents who decide to care for a child may decide not only by three years of age but by the age of six. This logic can lead to a very significant and long-term outage from the labour market. However, since we know that this is mainly the case for women and mothers, it also means that the tendency to increase employment, to stimulate women, to remain involved in work processes and to pursue their careers or to establish them will somehow be resolved. Not only with shorter working hours, but also with the possibility of staying at home and voluntarily breaking out of the labour market, because the country will pay them all the social and other contributions. For women who, as I say, will be able to choose the main ones, I stress that they really choose this option, it will not be useful, so we have also proposed this amendment, which I hope you will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u302	Thank you. Mr. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u303	On behalf of the Group of Members. One of the objectives of the proposed amendments to the current law is to improve the situation for the design and development of families and to increase fertility. In order to achieve these objectives, the Government has proposed several solutions, which have been presented in the course of the debate and which have been followed by experiences in the implementation of this law in the past. The coalition, as a community of some parties who want to do good to this country, has added to article 15 a new sub-article, which you are trying to do, says this article and one article earlier, you are trying to remove colleagues from LDS from the law for a reason that we cannot find a good reason for ourselves and our group. In our Group of Members, we are convinced that there is a need for a variety of measures to influence the improvement of the demographic picture in our country, and that any justified person can decide which one he chooses. Either he chooses him or he doesn't choose him. The proposals you are proposing in the LDS for deletion are, in our view, such proposals that need to be taken into account to read them again. New 48b. Article: "One of the parents who nurses and protects two children shall have the right to extend the right referred to in Article 48, paragraph 1, of this Law to an additional 6 year-old child." 48c. Article proposed by the Coalition: "One of the parents who leaves the labour market for the care and protection of four or more children has the right to pay social security contributions." Each parent will decide whether or not to accept the proposed solutions. He's been offered these options. The measures are not compulsory, but they may be applied by one or the other that means more work for the family than professional careers. We are different in this, and let us consider this difference. Some of us can combine work and family, and others can't, so let's give them a choice. However, I am very interested in how you will decide to vote on this amendment, all those who have supported the previous amendment, because the previous amendment was not with much content, and this has a very deep content.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u304	Thank you. Ambassador Koren, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u305	I also wanted to support the previous amendment, even though the voting device didn't work. However, it is correct to say right now that my vote must also be counted against those who voted in favour of the amendment to Article 7, although that amendment, in my opinion, had no weight whatsoever. However, I must say that this amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy to Article 15 is an amendment with very, very large consequences. We wanted to adopt a marriage, a good marriage that would bring something positive for families, for families with multiple children, for a father and for a mother with multiple children. The Ministry has also drawn up legislation under Article 15, which gives the possibility for mothers or fathers to decide to take part in part-time work. And I think that this is a very important option, a very important choice that can be taken advantage of or not taken advantage of by a father or a mother. Therefore, I personally see no point or obstacle in giving up such an opportunity with some quasi excuses that if it is so long, a wife or a husband may lose contact with his business activity. I say we don't force anyone. Everyone can make their own decisions. And please, let's let the parents decide for themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u306	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the voice of Mr Anton Kokal, I ask all Members and Members present to calm down and listen to the arguments they have put in place or to bring the Members to vote in one way or another. As you wish, Comrade Kokalj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u307	Thank you very much. I am a little disappointed at the debate on the previous amendment by the Liberal Democracy; I thought we had a better catch. I must say that this amendment has really disappointed me because it actually increases rights, and of course I will not support it myself. But I suggest, given that we're on the same line somehow, as it seems you might be holding back now, as I was before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u308	Thank you. Vote explanation, Member Rudy Veršnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u309	On behalf of the Group of Members. Look, we've been fighting a lot about nothing today, I can tell. When we vote on an important article, those who were most likely to say in Article 7 what kind of injustice is happening, how human rights are being violated, how limited they are, they say the opposite in this article. I'll say it again. Article 15 is the free decision of a parent; it is not necessarily a woman; it can be a father. And let parents decide for themselves which option they will use. And let's just give them that opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u310	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Stanislav Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u311	Thank you very much. See, both articles that we want to delete, 48.b. and c., do not bring the content in order to be deleted. This is left to the free choice of a mother who will decide to step out of the market for the upbringing and care of the child. We were a little back when we were doing a pension reform, then we understood these things humanly, when one mother stayed at home, there were a lot of children, then there was no basis for a pension, and we said, the country takes this as a value, and we arranged a state pension, so that even the mother who was protecting the children and wasn't in the labour market gets some tolar for old years. And this one will also get something like that, something more, but these contributions go to minimum wage. I don't think it's necessary to delete that. We will oppose this amendment from the very beginnings that we have faced since we have been working on the existing reform of the pension system, which is now going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u312	Thank you. Comrade Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u313	Thank you very much. I will not support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy, which is in total contravention of what they have for the flexibility of working time for mothers or parents in force in the Scandinavian state. As I mentioned earlier, this amendment comes from the position of aggressive feminism, surviving feminism, which in a woman does not see the mother and mother of children. I firmly believe that the vast majority of women oppose such a view of the role of mother, the role of woman in our society. For this reason, I am also convinced that the vast majority of this amendment will be rejected. If we had taken such a view, we would have entered pre-modern times, and I firmly believe that Slovenian society is mature and that it does not look at such views that are contrary to mature parenting, with the possibility that both parents will have extended time to raise their children and can be active and successful at the same time. In the extended working time, many women, I know such cases, have been trained professionally and have been more qualified at the end of this period for more responsible tasks and work in the job, in the profession. And I'm sure most women like that are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u314	Thank you. Explanation of Barbara Žgajner Tavš's voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u315	Thank you very much. I'll speak for myself. I will say basically that the two supplements that we have accepted on the parent working body in the form of coalition amendments are, in my opinion, controversial and quite incontrovertible. We have heard that it is the right, the right of the mother or father to choose or stay at home in case of having four or more children or remain active in the labour market. I'll say thank God you have the right to choose, but here's what I think is very controversial. It is also necessary to grant these persons the right to work under the Constitution, which is guaranteed by the Constitution. It would be very interesting to hear how and by whom these people will be actively involved in the labour market after 10 years. I will not oppose the amendment, nor will I support it, but I will press the button of the quorum, because I do not know exactly what the consequences of this amendment or what is now written in this law will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u316	Thank you. My friend Pojbich. Thank you. Emissary Marjetka Uhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u317	Thank you for your word. If Mrs. Tavševa and similar opposition colleagues convinced me [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u318	Mrs Uhanova, I am obliged to warn you that we are in the stage of explanations of vote and not in the stage of communication with other Members. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u319	I supported Article 7, the amendment under Article 7, and I will certainly not support it under Article 15. This is the right thing to do, and I'm sorry that some people don't know that some mothers are already staying at home with four or more children and no one is forcing them to do anything. And we give them these rights, we give them rights, we don't take them, we expand them, we give them a chance. And don't say that this is not the dissemination of rights, as you said earlier in Article 7, that marriage is a marriage of rights. In short, I will not support this amendment. Parents have the right, but it's not just about mothers, it's about fathers, and that's why I'm going to support anyone who wants to take this opportunity. And there's something else that matters in this marriage. Farmers and self-employed also have this right, which they did not previously have in marriage, and therefore there is more reason to support the novel, but certainly not this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u320	Thank you. I ask once again Members of Parliament, the President of the National Assembly has asked you several times before me, if you can listen to the other debaters. By doing so, you will express your attitude towards matter and to other Members and Members of Parliament. If you don't do this, and if the speaker's interference continues, I'll have the session suspended in 15 minutes. But I believe that's not in anybody's interest. The Master of Prosperity has signed up to explain his voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u321	Thank you. The amendment, which speaks of the deletion of Article 48.b and Article 48.c, is not a question of ideological orientation of any direction that has not survived, but is still alive and still important, but is a matter of internal nonconsistency of this law. Article 7 made it possible to hear many words of confidence about how by the third year of the child's age it is necessary to devote as much care, care and everything else as possible to parents. Here, in these two articles, two other time dimensions are set, one is the sixth year, the other is the tenth year of the youngest child. This means, however, that the right to parenthood is guaranteed as a profession for any. Well, you see, here's my second incoherence. At the moment when we are talking about the Lisbon strategy and when we are talking about greater employment, we are encouraging the withdrawal from the labour market for anyone, either for a man or for a woman. And there's an internal discrepancy that I can't agree with. I recognize the right to choose, I admit that no state priority policy can impose on people how many children they should have, it is always a matter of personal decision, it is really good to support the various proposals that promote a policy, but the question is whether all incentives are also appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u322	Thank you. Explanation of the vote, Member of the Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u323	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am very pleased when you talk about the expansion of rights, how kind and kind you are. I will not oppose this amendment alone, but ask yourself, who are you giving these rights to? Families with more than four children or four children and more. Let me know which of the Slovenians and Slovenes or where you can find such families, except that they are very, very rare, unfortunately. There should be more. And the only intention of such a long marriage as we now have before us is to give a woman the traditional role you have in your head, to sit at home in the kitchen and simply withdraw from the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u324	Thank you. Comrade Pukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! This explanation of the Liberal Democracy, which states that under the applicable law one of the parents who cherishes and protects a child up to the third year of age has the right to work shorter working hours, therefore, according to the Liberal Democracy, the extension of this right to the sixth year of the younger child is inappropriate. Colleagues and colleagues, I do not know a citizen or citizen of the Republic of Slovenia who would agree to such a claim that the right, which would extend from three to six years, would be inappropriate. That is why this amendment is against citizens and citizens of this country, against mothers and fathers, so those who are fathers and mothers will vote against such an amendment. So all mothers and fathers against, including the one you might ever become.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u326	Thank you. To explain my vote, I invite my fellow Member, Josip Bajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u327	Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u328	Peace in the hall! For the last time, I won't ask you again. Next time, I'm gonna cancel the session in 15 minutes. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u329	If I have already understood the controversy at Article 7 and the heating up for and against nothing, because we have not granted any rights to anyone by adopting the amendment, but from three years to eight years. I do not understand, however, my colleagues and colleagues, who are discussing the amendment and advocating an amendment, with which we are actually deleting something that we have corrected and made possible by this law on the committee with amendments to the Committee. I imagine a family that has a father who has a mother who has children, and in article 48.b we say that for that family that has a father, a mother and two children, we allow this child to be included in a nine-year education, it is said in the first class that one of the parents, agreed, has the right to stay at home and be paid contributions that come out as if he were working. And equally at 48.c., which says that the six-member family, that one of the parents stays at home and receives some symbolic, I will say, contributions. But I know quite a few families, including a number when a mother or a father goes for 80 000 net wages to work, but the children are in protective education organisations, for which on the one hand the local community pays 40, 50 thousand, and parents also pay 15, 20 thousand, says that if it comes to four children, they pay more than a mother or a father gets in a full-time factory. For these reasons, I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u330	Thank you. Vote explanation, Member Aloise Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u331	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support this amendment myself. If any of the solutions in this law are extremely positive, then this is the right to care for and protect children, which increases to six years, from three to six years, and to pay social security contributions to families with four and more children, if they so choose. Ladies and gentlemen, to suggest that this should be removed from the law on behalf of some discrimination is kind of funny. I would expect you, gentlemen and ladies of the LDS to withdraw this amendment and stop smiling with these explanations because they are actually ridiculous. You will not be able to convince anyone in this country that this is discrimination and that it is neglecting one of your parents. It's not like that. So it's no coercion, no obligation, but a choice. And it is true, there are fewer and fewer families in this country who would have four and more children. Even less are those who would opt for such an option, but when we think about it, we know that not all fathers and mothers are employed in such and different places, that many of them work for liquid strips, where relatively little is earned and that many of them may, at such an offer by the State, only decide on another option. I suggest you think about it, and take this amendment back, it'll be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u332	Thank you. So we are moving to a vote on the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group to Article 15. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 48. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian National Party and the Social Democrats to Article 22. Explanation of voice. Ambassador Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u333	Thank you very much. I must explain to the vote that I will explain once again what I have, of course, raised in the debate on this amendment and what it has denied, and I will say, I am afraid of ignorance, Minister Drobnič. Article 69 clearly states that the right to a child supplement does not have one parent or another person for that child who is in the institution for treatment and so on. A dilemma was raised on the parent’s working body, which means the institution. Is the institution a hospital? To lose the right to child care those children who are on hospital treatment. Since these dilemmas on the labour force, unfortunately, we were also warned by the legislative and legal service, we were not able to clear up because even the representatives of the ministry at the time did not know the answer, we adopted an amendment which added at the end of the sentence more than 30 days or for more than 30 days. In order to clear this dilemma at the national assembly, we have not been able to clear it, but we have tabled an amendment in the Slovenian National Party, which removes what is at issue. We want them to have the right to a child supplement, including those children who are sick and who are on hospital treatment. Therefore, I ask you to support this amendment, which will put an end to this ambiguity, which can be grave, severe, highly controversial.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u334	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 44. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 29. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 49. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group to the same 29th Article. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 47. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have put an end to the vote on the amendments and thus to the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 7 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? [[No, no, ……]] I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendment adopted would not be harmonised. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 5. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 12th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on motor vehicle taxes, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled in the third reading, we are moving on to a full decision on the law. At the same time, I inform you that the legislature and the government have not informed me that the law would not be harmonised because of the amendments adopted on the home labour body. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 4. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda - consideration of the proposal for a law on the supplementation of the Income Act, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 1. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 44. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and thus a second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. At the same time, I inform you that the legislative and legal service and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a full vote on the law. Member Cwickl has applied to explain the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u335	In my own name. I will not oppose this law alone, but it is necessary to say in this law that we will make the adoption of the law, in particular Article 3, a precedent in this national assembly. We've heard the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. The legislature said that the public interest should be told and presented by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this national assembly. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not delivered this and therefore remains somehow in the air, whether it is in the public interest to apply special exceptions and to return the possibility to winemakers, oil producers and beekeepers to correct their income forecasts for 2005. It is a pity that you did not accept the amendment to Article 1 because then we could exercise any right in this public interest. We talked about some groups today. We have a law that is contrary to the Constitution because the government has not stated that it is in the public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u336	Thank you. Comrade Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u337	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! When we listened today to the position of the legislative and legal service and the provisions of both the Constitution and the familiar provisions of our Rules of Procedure, and aware of the formation of the same law, from that proposal made by the Government, which spoke only of the possibility and manner of taxation of winemakers and olivers, knowing that the second part, and also the title of the law itself and the amendment of the law, when the members of the Committee on Finance were also extending this to beekeeping and also adding the third article not given by the Government, that is, this third article, which says how we will remedy matters for 2005, I do not understand how the government could then define or express public interest. I think that this public interest should be demonstrated by the fact that we have incorporated in this provision Article 3 of the Act in question. For this reason, I personally assess that it is not necessary for the government to define public interest, but probably by incorporating this provision, so I will also support the law fully in the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u338	Thank you. Voice explanation, Franz Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u339	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Members. The proposal for a law supplementing the Income Act is already the fourth amendment to the clearly poor income legislation adopted in 2004 and in a comprehensive manner regulates the issue of olive farmers, winemakers and for the first time I think it is in the best interests of all of us, but especially beekeepers, also of beekeepers. In any event, it cannot and this law is not specific in that it also allows taxpayers to choose some type of retroactivity because it allows for only a better choice and in no case does it go and puts taxpayers in a worse position. I think that this was one of the key points that the representative of the legal and legislative service made in his opinion. However, I think that there is no doubt that the better position of winemakers and oil producers is in the public interest and that it is unhealthy or that I will say that the government would be specifically called upon to express this public benefit in a special way, as we have heard in one of the previous opinions. We believe that this third option of taxation is good, that it is a good solution, that it enables the oil and winemakers to choose, and that this solution, which has basically cadastral income, is a solution that is adapted to our specific relationship, which is adapted to our Slovenian specificities, which is reflected in the fragmented own structure and, above all, in the small processing areas that our oil producers and winemakers are processing, and such a possibility of taxation is additional, I think, an important contribution to the elimination of demanding administrative procedures and an important contribution to rural development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u340	Thank you. Explanation of the vote by Mr Aloise Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u341	On behalf of the parliamentary group, once again, I would like to say that we will support this law in Novi Slovenija, which is an extremely important change in the law on income. In fact, by 2004 winemaking and olive oil production had been considered a basic agricultural activity, and since then no longer, and in some ways we have reintroduced this as a basic agricultural activity through the taxation system. This law will be an extremely good solution for our winegrowers, who we know are not in an envious position. This law will also be to some extent a good solution for the olive oil processor, although there will be a need to amend the cadastral income law, as olive groves are now classified as plantations and thus burdened with high KD. This law will also be the solution for Slovenian beekeepers. For the first time, beekeepers have been mentioned for the first time in this legislation, they have never been mentioned in such a way that all beekeepers with fewer than 40 bee families will be exempt from tax. These are currently between 80% and 90% in Slovenia; therefore, the majority. However, all others who will, of course, want to do so will be able to tax agriculture through complementary activities, so that, of course, there is also a solution, for what some have highlighted today, the producers of pumpkin oil or, of course, other complementary activities in agriculture. For this law has already been rectified in this direction a long time ago. This law also solves the situation for 2005, I don't know, it's obviously not enough for some colleagues here to explain what the Constitution says. So if it is a single provision, if it is a matter of public interest and if such a solution does not make the situation of the debtors worse, then, of course, we can adopt such a law. We have also understood this in New Slovenia, and we think that this law will also be adopted by those to whom it is intended very positively, because they have also cooperated all the time in the adoption of this law and have agreed with such solutions as we have discussed in the end. We will support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u342	Thank you. Member Geza Juban has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u343	Thank you very much, Chairman. I will uphold the law by regretting that we have not further resolved some of the things that we have had the opportunity to resolve in a very short process. The first is that we have not accepted the amendments to Article 1, not perhaps because of the content itself, which would partly change the conditions of beekeeping, but because this amendment would allow for the possibility that, in the same way as we did in Primorska Manufacturing and Production of Olive Oil, we could also save in the eastern part of Slovenia the production of pumpkins and the processing of seeds into pumpkin oil. Many people may find it funny to walk with such desires or demands, but for information, let me tell you that in Slovenia, 4 thousand hectares of pumpkins are produced, this may be compared to a sugar beet, which is an extremely large production, which is produced on less than 5,000 hectares - that is, one production that is very close to the production of sugar beet, of course, the pumpkins are much used at home. Also a solution to complementary activities. The complementary activity does not only cover the production of pumpkins, but also covers a wide range of other ones, and the quota of 6 million quickly takes advantage of the fact that we did not have the will, it was only the will, that we did not prepare it. Otherwise, as we know, this law, which is now very good, will not be valid for long because a new law on income is already being prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u344	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Borut Saiovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u345	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I will uphold the law, for, as they say, the devil also devours the flies. Of course, it is impossible to tell this marriage that it has no good purpose. The law is fine, it is for a positive purpose, it solves an area that has been poorly resolved in the past, but if we take into account all these comments that have been made today, then there is no avoiding the feeling that we have more work to do in the future in this important area. However, as far as comparing legislation with some past times is concerned, I must say that in those days all these producers were still in a better position because they were not taxed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u346	Thank you. Member Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u347	Thank you very much. We in the DeSUS Group will support the law. In doing so, we respect the view of the legislative and legal service that retroactivity needs to be reconsidered. But we also said why we judge not to violate the Constitution. We cited Article 155 of the Constitution, which speaks of public interest, and we consider that in the public interest there is an ecological function performed by bees, which is more important than possible taxation, that it is very important that it is in the public interest to preserve the cultural landscape - as in Lipica, also elsewhere. That it is in the public interest to maintain jobs where we just have to, and to reduce social tensions. We also judge that we do not interfere with the acquired right to return, and if this, as we understand it, is true, we do not violate the Constitution, so this is permissible. As I understand it, so did the legal and legal service. We would object, however, if the government were to follow the opposition's initiatives to rule in place of us, Parliament, to determine what is the public interest and perhaps even poisons it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u348	Thank you. Member Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u349	Thank you. I am pleased to note that somehow we have concluded the efforts of winemakers and olive farmers and at the same time I note that the proposal for a law tabled by members of the Social Democracy has been far more suitable for adoption, as it has not had any questions such as the legislative and legal service, nor any other which determine whether everything is written in accordance with the laws, the Constitution and the like. Unfortunately, we did not receive support when we discussed this law in Parliament, but unfortunately, especially because of the vineyards and olive trees, because our marriage was much more favourable than this, because it taxed the cadastral income twice for vineyards and for one and half times the cadastral income for olive farmers. Ours was merely taking into account the cadastral income for the surface, where they produced their own grapes or their own olives. And in these procedures, when we have also met with an authentic explanation, this law is a much more appropriate solution, as the authentic interpretation would raise more questions, more doubts as to whether they will be able to enforce these exemptions on income, so that I will of course support this law, and I hope that everyone who advocates the rightfulness of this law has really studied all things well enough so that it will also endure and that it will be possible to implement it in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u350	Thank you. Member Jakob the Presbyterian has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u351	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will also support this law, of course, because I think it regulates some of the things that needed to be settled, given that this law, which was passed in 2004, has some shortcomings that some of them have already proved to be at the time, and my fellow Members from the parliamentary group explain that there was nothing to harmonise at that time, even though there were amendments at the time, they say, about two and a half kilos. And some things just couldn't be reconciled in any way, and now some things are getting better. I'm glad they're making amends to save what needs to be resolved. In doing so, I would add particular joy to the fact that we are solving the beekeeping problem - of course, it should be stressed that in the past beekeeping, at least such a small one, has never been taxed, never been taxed, and that was the only and sufficient condition for beekeeping to beekeeping to date, especially with older staff, if I say so. And the correction is necessary in order to keep this beekeeping going, in particular this little where these 40 stumps are, according to the data we have, about 90% in Slovenia. So once again, I would be happy to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u352	Thank you. Member Mitja Slavinec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u353	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support the law myself, although unfortunately the shadow remains on it, because we did not take advantage of the opportunity we had to fix the law to supplement it and thus make it non-discriminatory to the producers of noisy oil. It is true that up to 6 million of them can also be taken into account in their complementary activities, but also wine and olive oil growers have the option. We must be aware that usually one activity is not the only activity on the farm, and therefore the law still, unfortunately, remains discriminatory despite this possibility. And that's why it's not right and it's not fair to the noisy oil growers compared to the others. As I say, I will support the marriage. In the light of what we have said and what we have said about advocacy and debate, I will be able to pour pumpkin oil on my salad in the future without bad news. But the rest of you, consider if you can do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u354	Thank you. Member Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u355	I could say it is better late than never, but in this case it is not the case that this knowledge of the need to change the law has not come so late, but it was the insistence of the ruling coalition that it must discipline both those who have warned of this problem - and this has been pointed out for at least three quarters of a year, I myself with some Members, including the leader of the SDS Group, to talk about it three quarters of a year ago, but also to some others - but not. The initiatives were, the initiatives were, it was known that the problem was, it was also known that in the past, this regime had obviously been put on a tighter footing and that it should be changed and taken into account what life actually dictates. Not the People's Party, where people would understand this hearing if they had it for farmers, to all farmers and processors in individual products when it comes to individual crops, but that was not the case. And today, we find bitterly that we may not have arranged everything that makes sense. But it points to the arrogance of authority, which speaks in the following way: if we give you something merciful, then of course you will get it, but whether it is backward or retroactive or whatever. We gave it to you, you must be grateful. That's what happened in this marriage. I welcome that this has happened, although with a bitter taste, so that we can do it properly, despite all the concerns that have been discussed here today. At least I remember three quarters of a year ago, or not, Mr. Tanko, when we spoke. I'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u356	Thank you. Member Boyan Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u357	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I'm very happy to support this marriage. He has also participated since the very beginning when the first proposals came, and I think he will significantly improve the situation of winemakers, olive farmers and also beekeepers. I would point out that this is just one of the laws I hope to adopt today. We have already had a lot of changes in income legislation, in which we have in fact always improved the situation of our taxpayers, our individuals and businesses alike, and I am pleased that we have the opportunity and I hope that we will continue to do so, that the tax burdens on our population will be reduced so that the situation for the economy, for businesses and the competitive capacity of our companies will increase in this way. Of course, we will have to insist that the cost of the country will be reduced. This is a positive trend and once again; I will gladly support this piece in this mosaic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u358	Thank you. Member Marjetka Uhan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u359	Thank you very much again for your word. I will support these changes to the Income Act today. After two years of grueling tax legislation in the field of winemaking, olive oil and no legislation in the field of beekeeping, this is being resolved today. But I have a feeling that some of you are mixing stumps and pumpkins. I haven't seen any amendments that talk about pumpkins, but only about stumps and you were really a little confused today, well. And there's something else I'd like to say. The bees are not the same as the bees, especially in this legislation, so far have been bees, bees can or olive trees - now I am confused [[...]] [[Laugh.]] You can register the production of pumpkin oil as a complementary activity and it's attached to the ground. [[...]] You can only produce pumpkins on the soil you have, and it's hard for bees to order you to feed them on your surfaces. And beekeepers are also some who don't have agricultural land, and they had problems because they couldn't sell honey. With this legislation, they're getting away with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u360	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. There are 71 Members and Members voting for 65, against no one. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the takeover law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Proposal of a law amending and supplementing the takeover law, first reading, is suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 41. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. In the context of this item, the assembly will consider two proposals by the Judicial Council for election to the judicial function, a proposal for decisions on the appointment of members of the State Audit Commission and a proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to dismiss a member of the Commission for the prevention of corruption. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. The Council of Justice submitted two proposals to the National Assembly on the election to judicial office in the courtroom of two District Judges at the District Court in Ljubljana and Slovenia Bistrica. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. Comrade Squeakle, I'd like to ask you to take your place. Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. Firstly, I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Tamara Igličar to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Natalija Horvat Medved to the District Court in the District Court in Slovenska Bistrica. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We move on a proposal for a decision appointing a member of the State Audit Commission. First time. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by a mandate-holder committee, Mrs Vido Kostanjevac, to be appointed members of the State Audit Commission, which will carry out its function from appointment until 23.12.2009. The panellists are not present, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mrs Vida Kostanjevac as a member of the State Audit Commission, which will take effect from appointment until 23.12.2009. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 2. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a proposal for a decision appointing a member of the State Audit Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by the Election Commission for Mr Natašo Jeršič to be appointed as a member of the State Audit Commission, which will take effect from 1.6.2006 until 23.12.2009. There are also no applications for this debate, and we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mrs Natasa Jeršič as a member of the State Audit Commission, which will take effect from 1.6.2006 to 23.12.2009. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 63 votes against 4. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We move on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to release a member of the Commission to prevent corruption. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the resolution of mags. Marka Praises the duty of a member of the Commission to prevent corruption of 30 April 2006. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Magi. Marke Praises to the Member of the Commission for Preventing Corruption of 30 April 2006. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're not done yet. Please take your seats back. Thank you. We are moving on to the continuation of the 4th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the real estate intervention law. On Friday, 21 April 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly, on a proposal from the drafter of the law, provided that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of the draft law would be carried out at that meeting. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled that you have received on the bench. I am thus putting to the debate the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 23. Anybody want a word? Comrade Run, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u361	Thank you very much. This time, I proposed to the parliamentary group that we look for the last possible option and show that it would also be useful for real estate intermediaries who have secondary vocational education to create conditions for them to obtain higher professional education in the six years needed. In four years they can't, it's impossible through the system, and I suggest that we let them not lose their jobs without having to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-04-25-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u362	Thank you. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 40. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendment. On the basis of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law would be inconsistent, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 57 votes and 3 against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. I also interrupt the 16th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which we will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m., I repeat, at 9 a.m. Have a nice day. Good luck.
