ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u1	Good morning to all, we are black for a handful, like a Polynesian, micronesia state, but, however, we continue with the 19th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members: Dr Slavko Gaber, Janko Weber, Miran Jerič and Milenko Ziherl until 2 p.m. We're moving to four. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the participation of workers in the management of the European Union. We have 40 minutes to discuss. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. There is no representative yet, but according to practice, I propose that we first listen to the report of the parent working body, but we will probably be joined by a minister or someone else. Mr. Brenčič, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The draft law on the participation of workers in the management of European cooperatives was discussed at the 17th ordinary session of 29.6. The members and members of the Committee received a proposal for a law and an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service as input for the meeting. Since there is no representative of the proposer, I will briefly take the words addressed by the representative of the proposer to the members and members of the committee. Ms Cotmanov, representative of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, stressed in her opening presentation of the bill that the basic objective that the proposed bill seeks to achieve is the transposition of the Council of Europe Directive's requirements, of 22 July 2003, in supplementing the status of European cooperatives, with regard to the participation of workers and thereby aligning our legislation with the legal order of the European Union. The Directive and, as a consequence, the proposal for a law combines two fundamental principles, an agreed regulation of the participation of workers at the level of European cooperatives and, in principle, the maintenance of the existing level of participation of workers. The aim of the directive is not to abolish or reduce the existing ways in which workers participate in the management of legal persons involved in the establishment of such cooperatives. The Directive is of a very technical nature and in most cases requires the direct transposition of its provisions into the Slovenian legal order. The legislative and legal service of the National Assembly has examined the draft law in accordance with the mission of this service, and has also made specific comments to a number of articles. No amendments were tabled to the bill by qualified applicants, nor was there a specific debate on the specific substantive provisions of the draft law. In accordance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the proposal of the proposer pursuant to Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has drawn up and adopted a number of amendments, or a number of amendments, to a number of articles, and has also addressed the shortcomings of the law in the draft law, as established by the Legislative and Legal Service. All the amendments adopted are an integral part of the proposal for an amended law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. A priest on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u4	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The DeSUS Group will support the law, i.e. the government's proposal for a law on European cooperatives. We note that the proposed law transposes a highly technically oriented European directive into our legal order, in terms of a uniform regulation of the new legal form of the European cooperative, which will exclusively regulate those rights and the participation of workers in the management of the European cooperative, which relate to information, consultation and co-decision of workers. This brings together the current level of participation of workers as well as the agreed regulation of the participation of workers at European level in terms of the provision of members of the special negotiating body. The rest where the method is included, the method of election, the appointment of representatives of workers from each country to the special negotiating bodies and bodies of workers' representations, the directive leaves the national legislation. Thus, legal persons involved are obliged to cover all the costs incurred in connection with the functioning of this body. According to our conduct, this law is complemented by two related, already harmonised laws, namely the Law on Economic Companies and the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in the Conduct of a European Shareholder Society, which thus surrounds the modern European model of companies. In the DeSUS Group, we are confident that this proposal will encourage the adoption or conclusion of an agreement between workers in the management of European cooperatives in the context of ensuring the rights of workers to cross-border information, consultation and co-decision, both at home and in other European Member States. We are also aware that, in all this exercise, it is necessary to ensure both the protection of workers' representatives as well as the mutual cooperation of representatives with management, management and control authorities and, lastly, the competence of the working court on possible disputes. Therefore, the participation of workers in the co-ordination of European cooperatives concerns the status quo and transparency of the negotiating process and thus constitutes a new transnational legal organisation in the European criterion. In view of everything, our parliamentary group will, as has already been said, support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Marinič will speak on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u6	Thank you so much for your words, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The draft law transposes Council Directive 2003, 72-EC of 22 July 2003 supplementing the Statute of the European Cooperative on the participation of workers into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. The Directive and, consequently, the proposal for a law combines two fundamental principles. Agreemental regulation of the participation of workers at European cooperative level, hereinafter referred to as the SCE and the principle of maintaining the existing level of participation of workers. The establishment of a European cooperative does not mean the abolition or reduction of existing ways of involving workers in the management of legal entities involved in the establishment of such cooperatives. The draft law basically encourages the conclusion of an agreement on the participation of workers in the management of the SCE, which guarantees the rights of workers to cross-border information, consultation and co-decision with their head office in our country, and also in the event that only the legal persons involved, subsidiaries and branches of the SCE part of the SCE established in another country to which the Directive applies, the basis being to ensure as far as possible the rights of workers obtained. In the event that an agreement is not reached, the law provides for a minimum level of participation of workers in management, standard rules to ensure effective cross-border information and consultation for workers, and co-decision only if there were one or more legal persons involved in the establishment of a European cooperative. Subject to the Directive, the law contains certain rules which must be provided for in the appointment or election of members of the special negotiating body, and only the method and method of election and appointment, and the directive leaves the Directive to national legislation in its entirety. The bill makes sense to summarise the solutions set out in the Law on European Councils of Workers and the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in the Management of European Shareholders, the representatives of workers from the Republic of Slovenia to the special negotiating body elects the assembly of workers in secret elections and the right to propose candidates to be held by holy workers, representative unions in the legal person involved and the company concerned, as well as the branch and at least 50 employees in the legal person involved and the subsidiary and branch concerned. The law also contains provisions which do not concern the principles of cooperation between the management of the SCE and the authorities of management or control on the one hand, and the representatives of workers on the other. In addition, it also deals with issues of respect for confidentiality of information and the protection of workers' representatives. The national legislation of the Member States should also regulate the protection of workers' representatives, in the same way as for workers' representatives in national companies, the same protection as for members of the labour councils under the law on the participation of workers in management and the law on working relations. As we say, we will support the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in the management of European cooperation in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mag. The gendarmes have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u8	Thank you very much. I would like, in the context of this procedural proposal, to apologize to the Minister, whom I missed in my statement that he is in the Chamber and I warmly welcome him on behalf of the Group of Members. Well, I didn't look in that direction, and I didn't say hello, even though it's order and image to introduce myself to government representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u9	Thank you very much. It is true that this procedural proposal is very unusual, but I think that too much of the image of the head doesn't hurt, so of course I welcome this kind of intervention. At the same time, I announce the ministers' performance after the final presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups, which is unusual again, but given that the Minister has come here, I think it is appropriate to give him the floor if there is no objection. If there is no particular objection from different individuals, of course I will do so in doubt. Of course, this is possible under the rules of procedure, but it has to give its position when a national assembly votes on it, and there is no rule of procedure that there should be such order as is in the scenario. The word has magic. A fairow on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Greetings to the Minister. I will cut down on the presentation of the Club of Members in this pre-summer period, as it was essential that this law, which is of a technical nature, is already stated by my predecessors and colleagues and is not to be repeated. I'm just going to point out the essentials. The Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia supports the law on the cooperation of workers in the management of European cooperatives, as we estimate that this is a good basis for achieving the objective of transposing the required directives of the Council of the European Community on the completion of the Statute of the European Cooperative on the participation of workers and thus harmonising our legislation in essence only with the acquis of the European Union. The main emphasis is that the new European Directive does not mean that the creation of a European cooperative does not or does not eliminate the reduction of existing ways in which workers participate in the management of legal persons involved in the establishment of such cooperatives. The Directive is fairly consistent and formally does not leave much room for manoeuvre to national legislation. There is some freedom only in the elections and the appointment of workers' representatives to the negotiating bodies and, of course, there is some effect on national legislation on the method itself and the way elections are conducted. The appointment of representatives leaves the directive entirely to national legislation and, like the majority of the LDS in this Parliament, we propose and assess that the law is a good basis for admission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Han has the floor on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u12	It's a nice day for me, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-in-Office of the State! The proposal for a law on the participation of workers in the management of the European cooperative ahead of us is some kind of implementation of Council of Europe Directive 2003/72 into our right order. According to the applicant's assurances, the directive is detailed to the extent that individual countries do not have much room for manoeuvre when implementing it. We will support the bill in the Social Democrats' parliamentary group. The participation of workers in the management of not only European cooperatives, but in general it is very, very important for us, because it is the foundation of industrial democracy. Unfortunately, the current Slovenian government obviously does not share our opinion. In the new company law, which is also mentioned in the introductory explanation of this law, in the introduction of a company in a single system of governance, labour co-management, it regulated at a significantly lower level than that of companies with a two-tier management system. We Social Democrats warned about this at the time and also tabled appropriate amendments, but we encountered deaf ears in the coalition. The government then promised that it was only a temporary arrangement that would be permanently improved by a new amendment to the law on co-management of workers in management. We have tabled an appropriate amendment to the law, but the coalition has then rejected it with the promise that the government will shortly prepare a so-called comprehensive solution. Today we are adopting a law that will ensure the proper participation of workers in the management of European cooperatives, which will be a legal organisation at European Union level. In the European Union, labour co-ordination of values and the European Union obviously cares better about the development of the industrial industry than we do. It is fortunate that the current government for the participation of workers in the management of domestic companies does not have such a hearing. The promised amendment to the law on the participation of workers in management, which will regulate labour co-ordination in companies with a single management system, is what we are still waiting for. We are also still waiting for the promised legal arrangements for the participation of workers in the management of institutions. It's a big segment where we don't even have our working arrangements. Although even the Constitutional Court has found that employees in institutions also have the right to participate in management. The Directive, which we implement by this law, calls for an agreement on the scope of labour cooperation in governance. If the agreement is not reached, it only lays down standard rules to ensure effective cross-border information and consultation for workers, and co-decision only if there were one or more legal persons involved in the establishment of a European cooperative. It is therefore also important for the development of industrial democracy at European Union level that we have a high degree of co-management in all Slovenian economic and organisational forms of companies. Social Democrats also call on the government, on this occasion, to adopt a law governing the participation of workers in the management of European cooperatives, to draw up, as promised, appropriate laws that will regulate labour co-ordination in areas I have already mentioned. As I have already said, we will support the proposed law in the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u13	Thank you very much. He'll speak for NSI. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. The Act on the participation of workers in the management of European cooperation and the participation of workers puts the requirements of Council Directive 2003/72 in our legal order. The bill basically encourages the conclusion of an agreement on the cooperation of workers in the management of European cooperatives, which guarantees the right of workers to be informed, consulted and co-decision in a European cooperative established in our or a foreign country. The basic starting point is to ensure as much as possible the rights of workers acquired. In the event that an agreement is not reached, the law provides for a minimum level of participation of workers or, as referred to by the Directive, standard rules for the management of European cooperatives. The law contains certain rules which must be provided for in the appointment or election of members of the special negotiating body, the method and method of election and the designation of the directive, and leave the Directive to national legislation in its entirety. In our case, this is the Law on European Councils of Workers and the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in the Management of European Shareholders. In Novi Slovenija we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u15	Thank you very much. And the last one has the word, Mr Brenčič, on behalf of the SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u16	Thank you very much again for your word. All hail again. The Act is a practical twin law with a little back-to-back legislation in this Parliament on co-ordination of workers in a European shareholder society and is practically deliberately and substantively identical to this law. Therefore, the Group of Members has no doubts that it would not support the law; we are practically obliged as a member of the European Union to respect the directive, so this law is practically a substantive and technical transposition of this Directive into our legal order. We'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. And in this place, I owe an apology to Mr Mohet for actually coming out of the first paragraph of Article 66 in order for a government representative to present his report only in the beginning. That's why I'm gonna make this decision. I will give my word to the Minister, if no one objects, if he objects, I will not give him my word. That's why I'm asking if anyone's objecting? Please, Mr. Mogue, you have a procedural [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u18	I object because the National Assembly should respect this order and the rules of procedure as it is, but for this reason I do not think that his word is necessary, as it is seen that almost everyone supports this law and will certainly be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u19	Thank you very much, as you say, for objecting, I will not give my word to the Minister. We're done with the presentation. And since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Friday 14 July 2006 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. Hello, Minister Mag. I also welcome the Minister, Dr Bručan, who has joined us during this time. We're moving to six. It's a second-hand proposal for a blood clotting bill. We have two hours and 15 minutes to discuss. The draft law has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, so I am giving it to the Minister of Mag. It's a good word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u20	Nice greetings, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Chairman! The area of blood supply has been regulated by the Blood Supply Act 2000. After this year, there have been changes in the relationship of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Community and in the legal order of the European Community concerning the supply of blood, so a new law, including the provisions of the European legal order, has been necessary. Directive 2002/98 EC, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Community and Directive 2004/33 EC, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Community and the technical directives of the European Commission. The basic principle of the law is to ensure quality and safety standards in the selection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human blood, as well as blood components as set out in the above Directives. This establishes the criteria of the European Community for quality and safety in blood transfusions. The proposal for a blood supply law provides that it will be necessary to appoint a competent legal person responsible for the implementation of the blood quality and safety law, including the hemovigilance system, to introduce, maintain and supplement a comprehensive quality system. These tasks will be performed by the public agency of the Republic of Slovenia for medicines, medical devices, which will form a special organisational unit for blood. It will also be responsible for carrying out regular inspections and will have to take appropriate measures in the event of a serious adverse event or serious adverse reaction. The implementation of the blood supply law will affect the prices of blood products, as the law requires the establishment, maintenance and improvement of the quality system, regular education of staff and the provision and maintenance of the information system, thus also increasing the work of the administrative work and daily transport of blood and blood products. In the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, a single blood transfusion institution is envisaged, which is responsible for collecting, testing and processing blood and blood products irrespective of the intended purpose of use and for their processing, storage, distribution and treatment when they are intended for transfusion. The law also provides for the establishment of a blood transfusion centre, in addition to the institution responsible for the collection, testing, conversion and storage of selected blood components. Perform pre-transfusion testing and hospital transfusion activities and supply blood and blood products to hospitals and other users. Both the Transfusion Office and the Centre must obtain a permit for their operation from the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for medicinal products and medical devices, which shall verify that they comply with the statutory requirements of the responsible person created by the staff, premises, equipment and other conditions. The Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Transfusion Medicine is the Transfusion Institute, which is responsible at national level for the professional level of supply of blood and blood products, as well as the integration of transfusion medicine with hospital activities and runs a single information system, which is very important, also leads professional education and development research activities, and cooperates with international organisations, associations and related institutions in other countries. In our country, the principle of voluntary, anonymous, and unpaid blood supply has been applied. Let me mention that this law does not change the provisions of the Labour Relations Act, by which blood providers have the right to a day off from blood and to pay for compulsory health insurance. The country's blood needs are determined by the Ministry of Health on the basis of the annual blood needs plan. The national organizer of blood-truck actions in Slovenia is still, as has been the case so far, the Red Cross of Slovenia. The role of the Red Cross as a national organiser has been considered and confirmed as such by the National Assembly Health Committee, where the responsibility of integrating the Red Cross into the information system led by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Transfusion Medicine has also been accepted as an important complement, as well as the responsibility of other organisers of the blood donation activities to cooperate with the Red Cross of Slovenia in this activity. I ask for the adoption of a law that will allow, on the one hand, the introduction of the European order into our marriage system, the legal system and, on the other hand, the good functioning of blood supply in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The draft law was also considered by the Health Committee as a working mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Germić, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! At its 17th regular meeting, on 29.6.2006, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered a proposal for a law on the supply of blood submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for treatment and reception. The National Assembly had previously held a general debate on the draft law at its 17th regular meeting, 21.5.2006, and adopted the conclusion that the proposal for a blood supply law, the first to be considered, was suitable for further consideration. In addition to the draft law, members and members of the Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the Commission for Social Activities. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and, from a legislative technical point of view, has drawn up comments to each article. In its opinion, the Commission supported the objectives of the draft law for the social activities of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and proposed that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should complete Article 3 and define the Red Cross of Slovenia as the national organiser of the blood supply. It is agreed, however, that under the prescribed and fulfilled conditions, other organisers may also carry out blood donation actions. Mr Dojan Marušič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, gave an introductory explanation to the draft law. He stressed that the basic principle of the law is to ensure quality and safety standards in the collection, processing, storage, testing and distribution of human blood and blood components. The basis is Directive 2002-98 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Community and the amendment of Directive 2001-83 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Community are for coordination with the provisions of Directive 22. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] 2004 adopted Directive 2004/33, which obliges Member States to adopt the necessary laws and regulations. The bill specifies the establishment of an organisational unit within the public agency of the Republic of Slovenia for medicinal products and medical devices, which, as an authorised authority, will be responsible for the implementation of the law on the quality and safety of blood supply, including the hemovigilance system. Inspections and inspections carried out in accordance with the Health Act will also be more transparent after the adoption of the bill and its implementation. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further stressed that some of the comments were taken into account in the coalition's amendments to the articles to which amendments had been raised and no amendments had been tabled, and they await the reasons for the proposal. Within the time limit set by the Rules of Procedure, amendments were tabled by the LDS MPs, the Social Democrats' Group and four coalition parties. In the debate on individual amendments tabled, different opinions were expressed and various solutions proposed. The members and members of the committee voted in favour of all the amendments tabled in the bill and supported all the amendments made by the four coalition parliamentary groups, while they did not support any amendments made by the parliamentary club or by the Social Democrats. The Committee adopted the following amendments as its own, namely Article 10 and Article 33 of the Act. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. So with the amendments adopted, he included them in the draft law and set out the text of the amended bill, which is still under consideration today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Since the Assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 17th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. And we are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 11 July 2006. We have three articles and three amendments open. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? Please. I'm sorry, yes, I thought there was someone else. Mr. Contic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues. For the second time, the Group of Social Democrats has prepared and tabled 4 amendments for the second treatment of the working body, all with a view to maintaining the Red Cross, as it has so far established, in the future in the field of blood supply. We estimate that the Red Cross has played a very important role here to also put in place a system that works and a system that works very well and I am not sure that any intervention is needed in the area that has proved to be a good result in the past. We have tabled four amendments, and it is no surprise that all four amendments were also rejected at the home labour body, so we have tabled on articles where this is possible and are also open for consideration at the national assembly of two amendments. Let me now speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the amendment to Article 3. In this article, we want to take into account that the individual terms used in this law and after a rapid review are presented in this article, and I can conclude that almost all the expressions except those we wish to include are listed in this list, which, by the way, accounts for 27 of these detailed descriptions of the individual terms. We want to add point 16 to point 15., where we define the term national blood donation organiser. They would record that the National Organisation for Blood Transposing is the Red Cross of Slovenia and is empowered to organise and coordinate the work between them in the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In the implementation of the annual bleeding programme, he is working with the Ministry of Health, the Government, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Transfusion Medicine and Transfusion Services. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Hospitals. [[..]] We have also received a letter from all Members and Members from the Red Cross, which does not, however, literally but points out that these amendments should be adopted and do not reflect the satisfaction of the law or of the text of the law adopted on the home working body. Therefore, even in line with the Red Cross's efforts, according to their interests, these two amendments proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members have been tabled, so I ask that the amendment, which only explains what this is, should be adopted by the State Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again. So, we, too, will support the amendments of the Social Democrats' parliamentary group to the blood supply law in the Liberal Democracy Chamber, and we regret that this has not already been done on the labour market. I think that it is necessary to listen to the arguments and by defining the terms in this law also to define the national organiser of bleeding in the Republic of Slovenia. I think that this assembly can be honored to define this content in the law for a simple reason, because blood-giving has a long tradition in Slovenia and in this tradition the role of the Red Cross is in fact immeasurably important. And the definition of the concept of the national organiser of the Red Cross in the law as part of the interpretation of the terms, it seems to me that confirmation and recognition for all that has been done throughout the whole of the Red Cross hemorrhage period in Slovenia. That is why we can also say today that we have a blood supply at a level that can be a model for many countries within the European Union, and, of course, I propose that now, if this has not been done on the home labour body, we give our support and recognition to the Red Cross when we vote. This is all the more logical and rational, given that in Article 33 we write down the text that the national organizer of the Red Cross bloodsight events is the Red Cross. And of course, when we write this down in the definition of terms, we can actually believe that. Of course, there will also be a need to listen to all the concerns that are being raised in Article 33, because I think the amendments to Articles 3 and 33 will have an extremely strong link, and we will have to think a lot about how we will spread the circle of those who will be able to carry out the blood supply. However, with the amendment to Article 33, I think it is necessary to reward and properly define this in law and to express recognition for the more than 53 years' work of the Red Cross in the field of blood supply activities, so I propose, of course, to colleagues and colleagues that we support the amendment to Article 3. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The first Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the word, and I apologize if you have applied before, but I have missed it, and then I will give the Minister my word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u28	Thank you very much. No problem. It's a nice greeting to everyone in this room. First of all, I would like to say that in our New Slovenia Group we support the concept of a bill that follows the standards of quality and safety in the collection, storage and distribution of both blood and blood components. As for these amendments or amendments to Article 3 and Article 33, as well as the letter addressed to us by the Red Cross of Slovenia, I would like to say the following. On the home committee, we have adopted an amendment to Article 33 and, in addition to being clearly stated in there, as colleague Germič has already found that the national organizer of the bloodstream actions is the Red Cross of Slovenia, we can give a clear message not only to this assembly but also to all the other public and the Red Cross that we do not wish to take his role in this space, not only to the Slovenians, but also to the wider world. However, I must say that there is no need to be afraid that there may be some uncontrolled implementation of blood-giving actions, but I must really oppose this, as Article 2 of the same article states in the second paragraph of the same article that blood-giving actions can be carried out in cooperation with the national organiser, which is the Red Cross, and other blood-stressing organisations, and we have already opened up this issue to the mother's labour and to the organisation of blood-stress actions, and we do not see a problem in our parliamentary group that other interested organisations, societies, Karitas, schools that feel a need or demand for citizens to organise an action. As we all know, other competent authorities are mainly involved in this action, but they are concerned with quality standards. I would therefore like to reject this fear that anything could affect the very quality of the blood supply actions and, consequently, we consider this amendment, which is repeated and which we have before us today as unnecessary, and we are confident that we are giving due weight to the Red Cross, and in particular to all those volunteers who decide to participate in the blood supply actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u29	Thank you very much. There's still a mag in the word. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament and, of course, the escorts of Mr Minister! I support the amendment tabled by my parliamentary group, and I would expect if the matter is truly so clear, understandable in itself, if no one sees the obstacle to the fact that the national coordinator of this activity would also be the Red Cross in advance, or the organiser of the blood supply, why this could also be recorded in the law governing this blood supply. If it's because of me, it could be the Red Diamond, after the new one. But it is simply that in Article 3 of the successive terms that appear so much here, 72 have so far explained the individual expressions, and there is nowhere in truth to find who is the one who assumes the responsibility of the national blooddresser. Therefore, this good will, which has also been expressed so badly, would also be supported by the amendment’s receiving support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues! Initially, I would like to thank both on my behalf and on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group for all the work and work so far in the field of bleeding, both to the blooddressers and to the Red Cross of Slovenia itself. We can certainly acknowledge his thanks, and for this very reason, the Red Cross of Slovenia still has a precise status in this law, as well as provisions defining its role. I agree with many interlocutors who recognize the successful and good work done by the Red Cross of Slovenia in the past in collecting blood, but this does not mean that this activity could not be organised in the future in a way that will be even more successful, even more effective, and that is why this provision in Article 33 provides that such actions may also be carried out by other institutions. I do not think that there is anything wrong here, that there is no jurisdiction in the Red Cross in this way, but I do not think it makes sense, in my opinion, that the Red Cross has a monopoly over this, that in fact he will try to determine in one way or another how these actions should be carried out. I agree with the fact that it is certainly necessary to ensure that any action in the area of blood collection and also feeding will have a sufficiently strong professional view that such implementation will be carried out in a way that will prevent any possibility of infection or even any other abuse, and I am sure that all these institutions will have both professional and other references. The Slovenian Democratic Party itself and the Slovenian Parliamentary Group believe that such an amendment is unnecessary, and we have also reasoned on this issue on the Committee itself, even there, that we have not accepted and we will not support such content of this amendment even now, because we do not believe that it is necessary, as we have already mentioned, in cooperation with the Red Cross of Slovenia, that any institution with a sufficiently large professional level will be able to carry out this matter, which we believe is also the right thing to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u34	Thank you very much. We are discussing Article 3 and the amendment to Article 3. The amendment will then be discussed, which will also address the situation of the Red Cross even in two amendments, and once again in relation to the information system, secondly in order to ensure that the blood supply actions are carried out in the future in a manner consistent with the national coordinator. The interesting thing about this amendment is that we are simply explaining in the context of all the explanations we are adding to the words of the national blood donation organiser, which is used in the law, what was found in the previous debate, but not within the meaning of Article 3 where we explain the concepts, including: The Hospital’s Transfusion Board is a body that controls the use and management of blood, blood products and medicines from the blood. The blood is full of human blood taken from the blood donor and ready for transfusion or further use. According to professional medical criteria, hemorrhagic is a healthy person with an adequate medical history who voluntarily gives blood or blood components. It's bleeding and so on. We explain all the concepts used in this law, but we are not prepared, as I have heard, to support in this article what it means to be a national blooddresser. Although I do not understand this most, and even the assessment that an amendment is not necessary, I do not understand it at all. We are talking about the credits of the Red Cross in the past, and we also recognize its potential for future ones, but we want to end with this law the monopoly that the Red Cross has in carrying out the blood supply in Slovenia. In doing so, we are again overlooking the fact that, when we are talking about the past tense, there have been no problems with the blood supply in Slovenia in the past, there have been no errors in the blood supply in Slovenia in the past, there have been no professional errors in the past, and there has been no danger for people, both those who have given and those who have received blood and blood substitutes. So there's no valid reason why we shouldn't take this into account. However, it is illogical, and I warn you, but it is illogical, all the concepts in this Article are mentioned, including those generally known, what it means to be a national blood donor, and we are not prepared to write in this Article 3 of the Blood Supply Act. I propose that we really think again until evening when we vote on this amendment and that this amendment be supported and incorporated into the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u36	Thank you very much. It is certainly right that the Red Cross of Slovenia is recognised for the results that have been achieved in recent decades after World War II, in the collection of blood that is exemplary in comparison with other countries, exemplary in quality, exemplary in organization, also exemplary in extent that has been appropriate all the time and has saved many lives in Slovenia. I would like to say that I am now following a second serious debate on the blood supply law. In 2000, we had it for the first time, and at that time there were demands that despite the praises given to the Red Cross, the Red Cross should be ensured that the Red Cross would no longer have such a role. The main debate was whether or not he had a monopoly until then and whether or not he should have kept it. And we have all agreed that there is no reason for this to be a monopoly and that others should not organise blood collection and blood donation, but there is no reason for the blood supply not to continue to be organised, to avoid directing and to avoid speaking to the notion of a national blood supply coordinator. And all those who say that this amendment is not necessary, according to my feelings, you come with such views because you would like to take the next step in this law as well in reducing the role, not the monopoly, because it is no longer there, but in reducing the role of the national coordinator, who has only the ability and influence to organise blood donation and bleeding in Slovenia. That there is a reason for this, too, I will honestly say that, after all, we have received a letter from all Members and Members of the Red Cross that the Red Cross supports these two amendments, the amendment to Articles 3 and 33. And he supports it because he fears that the current government policy, including the current policy of the ministry, is moving towards a gradual decline in the role and the possibility that the Red Cross would still be the true national coordinator of the blood supply. He wants to be given a role that would be one of many, and we know that there is a lot of staff, that there is a lot of organization here, that it is also, I admit, an integral part of the financing of the Red Cross and through this realization of many other functions that he performs and that it is a desire that all of this is no longer given and that it is no longer an opportunity to operate and work and functions of the Red Cross, but of all others. Is it wise to establish some interests? Will this ensure that the institution, not the institution, is demolished, but by the actions that have produced good results so far? Let's think about it, but don't think that the Red Cross, its activists, who are hundreds and thousands of people in Slovenia, don't know anything about not supporting these amendments, which the Red Cross also supports. They point to the desire to gradually reduce and minimize the role of the Red Cross in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President, once again. It would be unfair not to say correctly that the amendment to Article 3 in its text makes it clear that the national organiser - which is crucial - here I am not talking about the coordinator, but about the national organiser, which is essential more. And if this is significantly more, then it means that, as an organiser, he has a role on the one hand to take responsibility at the national level for all the blood supply actions that are taking place, and it is therefore correct to define this responsibility. For it is good to hear here today that quality and quality control in the context of blood supply actions will in itself be ensured. Here I ask myself, what is the sharing of responsibility between the Red Cross and another organizer, with the Red Cross involved? There's no record of how much he's involved. And if anything goes wrong, what will be the sharing of responsibility between the organization and the organizer? If we record that the national organiser is obliged to give his consent, of course, in this case the consentor also assumes responsibility for only the quality of the execution of individual blood donation actions. And if we spoke only about the coordinator today, it would be much easier to speak in harmony with Article 33 on cooperation. However, because we are talking about a national organiser, and we certainly agree here, both the proposaler and members of the various groups, coalitions and opposition, because the coalition on the committee proposed an amendment, which was then approved by the committee and amended Article 33. And here is the fear of how individual roles will be performed between the organisers who will be given consent or who will carry out certain activities in cooperation with the Red Cross. And here the role of the Red Cross is undefined. And we only point out that it would be a dictatorship that the Red Cross, as a national organizer, could or should give consent. This is enshrined in the amendment to Article 3 and is then logically written in Article 33, where the word "consent" is proposed instead of the word "cooperation". And here the content is closely linked between the two articles. In my opinion, given the role of the Red Cross so far and given the confidence in ensuring a truly higher quality of blood supply in Slovenia, it is correct to also ensure adequate control over quality assurance, and that the Red Cross should also be given a role here in the sense that there is also a co-ordinator for the implementation of the actions by other operators. There is nothing to prevent others from being contractors. We're not stopping it here. I don't know why we would if we wrote down here an agreement that other contractors would not be able to approach it. So they can also be performers as it is written, schools, soldiers or businesses, but with a clear definition of responsibility. And in agreement with the Red Cross, there will certainly be a series of activities that must be carried out by someone who will carry out the blood supply. Therefore, I think it makes sense for us to support the amendment to Article 3. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kucler Dolinar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u40	Thank you. Mr. Kontic wonders why the Red Cross is not mentioned in terms, why not? Because this is one of the activities carried out by the Red Cross and the Red Cross has its own law, the Red Cross Act, where the precise basic provisions relating to its purpose are laid down, and Article 9 of the tasks performed as a public authority, is, as in the special law, in the law in the Red Cross under the fifth indent also, carried out actions to obtain the bloodsuckers and organise the bloodsucker actions. If we simply combine the definition of the bill referred to in Article 33 and Article 9 we clearly see that all your fears are too much, and in fact I do not know what the purpose is. Above all, Mr Germič raised the issue of responsibility. Their responsibility, their work is primarily organised and, as I have already pointed out, other competent services, other competent authorities take care of blood quality control, control or individual can actually approach blood collection. I would just like to stress this by not needlessly deceiving the public, but I am sure that experts will respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President, the well-respected assembly. On March 9, 1953, according to 53 years ago, in Zagorje, the congregation, the Red Cross, and the unions organized the first bloodguilt campaign under the auspices of the Red Cross. At that time, 9 miners took part on the first day and over 900 blooddressers in the next days. In 1993, the State granted a public authority by law to organise blood-spectrum actions to the Red Cross of Slovenia. Today, the organisation of voluntary blood donation in Slovenia is at the European Summit itself. Just a few data: we have 52 blood donors per 1,000 inhabitants. We need 400 blood donors every day and 45,000 liters of blood is collected throughout the year. With its 56 regional organisations, the Republic of Slovenia's Red Cross is the main organiser, along with the Institute of Transfusion Medicine and Transfusion Services in Slovenia. So one of the aims of this law is to obviously break down a system that works very well and through the side door bring out Karitas. Or, following the example of neighbouring Austria and some other countries, we will end up selling our own blood. Finally, the Social Democrats' parliamentary group has been organised twice a year for a blood donation, so I would suggest to my colleagues and colleagues in other parliamentary groups that they follow our example, and that a similar action in the government could also be organised by Minister Bručan, rather than disrupting a system that works well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, Your Honor. I think we're a little down, and here we are all sussing around, sorry about the expression, some ideology. What we've heard now at the end, but really in the end, it wasn't before, no one mentioned any other particular organization before, and now we are. This is said to be probably the purpose of this amendment in this respect. The debate has gone wrong and everything is suing around it as if now the Red Cross is the one who is the only and the only one who is saved and has the most credit for having everything well arranged with us. Yeah, the blood work's been arranged, but we're going in good order. We have the principle of volunteering and unpaid blood. The Red Cross doesn't have any credit for this, so the country, the former one, if you want it, and the previous system, because it kind of brought it into the marriage. This has to be admitted and we have to be clear. The Red Cross is just one in this set, which was then authorized to organize, no one claims that they did not organize properly. I didn't say it and I won't say it either, but I want to say something else, what is the point and this debate today has not gone this way. She was completely missed. And the essence of this, I'll say, success in this area is this volunteerism and non-payment. We need to understand that. This was a certain tradition in Slovenia, it was established when it was established, but you know that in other countries this is not the case, volunteering is possible yet, but non-payments are not. Yeah, that's the whole point. See, the Labour Relations Act stipulates that a worker is entitled to work absent due to blood donation on a voluntary basis. In this case, the employer shall pay the remuneration to the worker under the burden of health insurance. Gentlemen, let's end this in the labor law, and you'll see what "war" will do. And what I'm trying to say is that the essence of success is in this definition of a united work law, which is just, I don't know, from what year, it can be that since 1953 it's been that, it doesn't bother me if it is then, but it's the essence of success. That's the point. And what I'm trying to say right now is nothing helps us if we fight, give one exclusive rights, or two if you want what you're afraid of, or even three if we stop it in the labor law, then there's no exclusivity, and no monopolies will be able to help us, because it's probably going to be our system of volunteerism and unpaid blood. That's the point, gentlemen, so this amendment is completely irrelevant. If we want this to continue to be a success, this is our mission of blood supply, then we need to fight for, in addition to what is written here, it will be written that the employer will still benefit from this in insurance or anything. Then we can say that this will continue to work successfully even at this time when we know that everything is already materialized. And a lot of employers, even though it's written like that, are starting to think, I don't know, because they're looking at it from their point of view, so they're going to have to think about giving the employer something out of it. I'm not saying, I don't have any idea, I'm just saying, which way it's going to have to go, but not in writing that one would have a monopoly, I don't care who it is, no monopoly is good, but now it doesn't matter. I want to say that because of the tree we will not lose the forest, and in this case the forest is what is written in the Labour Relations Act. That's the point, and we're going to have to extend it a little bit further to the employer. Even if he had any rights and benefits, I don't know what, but time will probably show that something will have to be done. The dispute over what we are now talking about is the allocation of some exclusive rights, but it is completely out of the context of the present time. That's what I wanted to warn you, not that I'm criticizing the Red Cross, God forbid, it doesn't come to my mind. And I also said that it is well organised to do well, but the basic issue of why it works well is here in the labour law and we have to focus on it and think about it, but not to give anyone exclusive rights, which may not be so exclusively written now, is the essence and heart of the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I have not wanted to interrupt anyone so far because of the debate, but let's just focus a little bit more on the amendment, if we can. But Mr. Bajc has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary and co-workers. I'm sure we all know what we're discussing today. Well, my comment on that. I've given blood 54 times so far, which means I've given over 20 liters of blood, not once I've gone because I've been invited by the only authorized organizer of the blood supply, not the performer, and some colleagues have been discussing how to care for the quality of the infection, no, it's someone else who cares about it. I attended, as it was said, 54 blood-giving actions, where I was, I think, about half of the Red Cross organizations, but the rest I donated blood in Izola Hospital, directly at the blood-transfusion facility, I think it's called that, or at least called that, and I donated blood four times when I was serving the army in Nis. Secondly, when some colleagues say what it is, it is true, but in 1954, colleague Samo, was the only and to date practically the only legally designated organizer of the Red Cross bloodsight events. It is also carried out by a blood transfusion agency directly without the Red Cross. And why not say now, as stated in Article 33, the national organizer of the blood supply actions is the Red Cross, and then the second, the blood supply action can be carried out in cooperation with the national organiser, is said to be with the Red Cross if we told him that it has this status and role in the previous, including other organisers of the blood supply actions. Once again, let me repeat something else, even if some of your colleagues were discussing how and I don't know what the Red Cross is all about, and probably others, not just you, but we will remember, those of us who were also working in the humanitarian field, until about 20 years ago, talking about Karitas were blasphemous gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. It is blasphemous to say that anyone else can organize humanitarian organizations. I think that things have changed in this area, too, and it is right that they have changed. Let me just say one more thing about the privilege of someone, and I can say, specifically, the Red Cross. You'll remember, say, when some of us were doing driving exams 35 years ago. Only the Red Cross could organize a lecture, we got some witnesses to conduct a 20 - hour course and a first - aid test. It is possible at that moment, but today to say that only for this is the ability and only salvation of the Red Cross, I don't know if that's the case. And not to mention some other areas where we have certain authorized or saving organizers and do not leave others behind. I say, if that is the case, and in the greatest case it is, and it goes also to the Red Cross, but let it prove with work also in the future that, I will say, it will achieve what some say, or partly I will attach to it, that it has achieved in its work so far. But let's also give others a chance to show up. It's not about, I repeat, but it's not about carrying out blood flow actions, it's about organizing a blood supply operation. And if I simplify, but I think that we're mostly blood-tenders here, at least I'm sure so, the Red Cross organized a space with the congregation, sent sometimes an invitation that we took a bus to Isola to a hospital to take blood, then he helped fill in, say, after a new questionnaire that has 125 questions, he usually lent you glasses too, because when we go to give blood we don't wear our glasses, he offered us what's better, I'll say, sometimes there was a glass of wine, today is just tea and instant coffee. Unfortunately, it seems because they said it wasn't appropriate, say, if you go to Izola Hospital, sometimes these organizers themselves at the hospital might serve something else. In short, colleagues and colleagues, let us also let the future Red Cross prove itself, even in this area, but also allow others to prove themselves in cooperation, as we have said here, with the national organiser of the Red Cross of Slovenia. Therefore, Vice President, I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u48	Again, thank you for your word. I also share the view that in Slovenia the execution of blood donation is organised in a way that we can be aware of by a number of countries, but that this organization is as it is, is certainly the reason that the whole system is so organised and not just one piece as some here want to attribute to the Red Cross. My two interlocutors, or predecessors, have already explained that the success of the bloodstream is also very important in the consciousness of Slovenes and Slovenes, humanitarianism and, ultimately, the way in which any such action is "refunded" in some way during the day off. This means that the whole system is such that funds are also provided to enable these actions to be carried out in the way we have them. In some ways, however, I am surprised by the labelling, mainly by opposition Members and Members, but not only by this law, which we accept, that there is an ideology in every law, that there is a very purpose in every law, that we want to destroy something that was good and that we want to create ourselves or someone else's privileges in this way. I can't share an opinion about this, because if that were the case, then humanity would still be at a stage some 10,000 years ago, we know that everyone is always looking at some changes that are trying to make things better. Every law now, I am sure, seeks to improve things and this law is such, no one takes credit from the past for the Red Cross, no one restricts it in its work even in advance, but it is also right to allow others who are willing and able to carry out this action or in cooperation with the Red Cross as a national organiser, and this can only contribute to the improvement of this activity and in no case can it make things worse. So, such arguments that in the past the work of the Red Cross was good, why change it, that there were no mistakes, why now change again. I do not share such an opinion, because even though it has worked well in the past, this does not mean that it is not possible to improve further in the future. Every thing can get better, and it's here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Clavora.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u50	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Fellow Member and Members. We're going around in some vicious circle, and I think we're confusing the notions. I am very surprised that there is such a debate on this issue and perhaps Mr Bajc has touched the pressing issue in his debate. That's to mix the organization and take it away. It's perfectly simple. We're mixing the organization and the seizure. I'm alone, actually, I wasn't a blood donor, but I was the one who made the decision about the blood we were going to give it to and when we were going to give it to. So I think these are very important things and let's not get lost in non-essential things, but in essentials. And, if you'll excuse me, some of my observations, as far as the Red Cross is concerned, cap down. In all the years it has been an organization that has done its work because of a stain in the near past, let it not be punished because it is not the leadership of the Red Cross, that is, many, hundreds and hundreds of Red Cross activists who have done well. I certainly don't mind if he also has this recognition that he is a national organiser or coordinator in this matter. We could have taken it quietly. I don't mind this amendment. However, our mindset also changes slightly from today's debate and changes even in the heads of those who would be willing to give blood and are no longer at the time when they went to the company or in the hundredth with the flag or with a song to the blood-giving action, when someone organized it, are now only a little different, these heads, who will give blood. I'm not so optimistic that too many people will want to give blood, I'm not too optimistic, even considering how employers treat blood providers and what these things are in advance, I'm not optimistic. Therefore, in this respect, I also accept that, besides the Red Cross, someone else can organise blood-giving actions, forgive me, I have been clear, organized, there is no danger that blood, with the taking or whatever happens. Please, these terms are three quarters of the debaters in this Chamber mixed; organisation and withdrawal. We're talking about an organization. If the organisers are next, including those who are as capable as the Red Cross, to compete, I will not correct the word 'competition', let them take part in this, for there is still a need for blood in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say that I am somewhat saddened by the debate, my colleague Bajc, who has tried to explain and the importance of organising blood-stress actions. I have to say that I was the director of a high school, namely, the Gymnasium and the Central Chemical School in Ruša, and every year, activists of the Red Cross came to me, not officials, none of those paid, for example, in the Red Cross, but activists in the field who were very concerned that this blood supply campaign would be carried out. You know, we're talking about this, not because of whether there's any coffee or anything that's been said here, it seems to me that you have been underestimatingly speaking both on the one hand for those who give blood in an organized action, but for those who do many hours of volunteer work, a lot of hours of volunteer work so that everything can be organized so that the blood-giving activities of those on the one hand who give blood and those who take it. It is clear to me that only an act is necessary here and that there are performers who do it, but of course it is very important, very important today, when we talk about giving a clear message in Slovenia that we are cultivating the principle of volunteering on both sides and that we are cultivating the principle of solidarity and it seems to me that when we speak underestimatedly or with ease we are talking about how organised blood donation in Slovenia is, we do not give these good messages. I have no dilemma as to whether the Red Cross is the only one and only he has been called to be the organizer, I have no dilemma as to whether there should be another. Of course, I have a dilemma about whether it will be effective, and you know, I'm an athlete myself, and the gold rule in sports is, you don't change the team that wins. However, if we see irregularities, if we see opportunities to make it different, then let us do this in such a way that, of course, this activity will have a development dimension, and I agree with my colleague Klavora, who says that if we place less emphasis on volunteerism and solidarity, the perspective can be different, and so on those who will organise blood donation activities than those that will be key actors within the framework of the activity itself. And of course, once again, I stress, this is an amendment that speaks of the Red Cross giving consent to all others who will be able to organise blood-giving actions, because cooperation is a very, very loose concept, a very, very loose concept, and we listen to those who warn us, warning us that such a definition is not good. Of course, I want the number of blood donors to increase, but even more so, I want the need for blood to be reduced as little as possible, because in this way we will provide the need for blood in the most successful way, of course, here is our reflection on why it is reasonable to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u53	Thank you very much. My friend Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Germič, I think you misunderstood me in my presentation, and when I was speaking figuratively about coffee, I wanted to say because some of you were discussing and mixing, as Dr. Klavor said, the organizers of blood-giving actions and performers, because I said, blood takes my blood-transfusion office, that I came, I said, about 25 or 30 times but I came to the invitation of the Red Cross and its volunteer activists. For the success of the bloodstream, it is not an organization that matters, but our willingness to give our blood free. Remember, fellows, those who are blood donors, what happened in those years of independence when the employers started talking, no, you're no longer entitled to leave that day and so on. What happened? I think our blood supply's almost halved! Thank God, even thanks to the Red Cross and activists, as my colleague Germič said, this has started to climb. However, you yourself said that you do not object that others - why not allow someone else to work on the ground, I will say under the slogans, this propaganda that more and more people will be willing to donate their blood voluntarily, even in cases where they will be employers or if the legislation says, you are not entitled to that one day of absence or I do not know what. And let's make it possible for others! However, I do not understand this amendment that the Red Cross, as a humanitarian organisation, will give its consent to someone else in order to be able to carry out the organisation. I would have expected earlier, and perhaps I would have supported this amendment if the amendment said that it was the blood transfusion agency that gave some consent to the organizer of the blood supply. I remember being mayor when I was in Postojna when they were coming - for example, we had problems with space and I don't know what it was - when they came from the blood transfusion facility to help find along with the Red Cross and the congregation a location or places where the institute was supposed to carry out blood-giving actions. For this reason, fellow Members, let us be democratic, let us also make it possible for others, and in particular we all get as many blood-spectors together as possible! However, that the need for blood is increasing, I think they will never make plastic blood and will always need a certain amount of blood and substances that are prepared with blood. So let us also allow others to get as many blood donors as possible and not leave, as has been the case in the past, this only to one organisation that can do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u56	Otherwise, everything has already been said, but given that the blood market is clearly becoming interesting and that it will probably also slowly start to interest the blood donors in how this "trafficking" is going on, it can also sometimes happen that, for such or other reasons, the motivation for bleeding begins to fall. It is therefore necessary to ensure that there are as many as possible who will stimulate blood donors to give blood. I don't think the monopoly in this area is good. And in this sense, the amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy is actually trying to keep some monopoly. We do know, however, that the monopoly reduces competitiveness, which then reduces the marketability, especially the amount of blood donors. And I think we need to do everything we can to make sure that there are as many blood providers on the market as possible, if I say so. However, the Red Cross is not disabled in anything. If he preserves and improves his good name, people will certainly continue to take part in their actions at the initiative of the Red Cross, and certainly the experience of the Red Cross can also help those organizations who feel sent to help in this noble work. Therefore, it is really difficult to support such an amendment, because in no case does it put the Red Cross in any deprived position, but allows others to be involved. In fact, the Red Cross also helps to share its knowledge and experience with those organizations that see this mission.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u58	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for your word. The Ministry of Health does not support this amendment. It seems to us that this amendment is unnecessary. On the other hand, the amendment that allows the Red Cross to decide who else can organise the blood supply actions in addition to the proposed text means, in fact, a monopoly that is not recommended. Today I was surprised by the debate, I must say, about the ignorance or non-separation between the organiser and the contractor. These things are quite clear and also written in the Red Cross Act. That's where things are well-extended. Things are well defined in Article 33, in particular the amendment adopted by the Health Committee and therefore there is no need for a specific definition in Article 3 of the Act. And also the 10th article has somehow arranged these things with supplements. I don't think there's really any need to accept this amendment. Against monopolism, and against monopolies in terms of as much competition as possible, the world somehow operates in its own way. However, the number of blood donors should be right, not too large, not too small, and the amount of blood should be appropriate. It is therefore necessary to pursue this and, to the extent that the information system allows for control among individual organisers of the blood supply actions, I think that this is ensured in the future in the best possible form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u59	I conclude the debate on Article 3 and the current amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? I'm closing the debate. I am also putting to the debate Article 33 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, we have opened the debate on this Article already under Article 3, a distinction or amendment proposing that cooperation be replaced by a consensus. All the warnings that have gone in this direction as to how bad it would be if the Red Cross were, or had a monopoly on the organization of bloodletting, is, of course, superfluous, since there is no such monopoly now, and others can organize it now, and so it will continue in the future also under this law. It is important that the Red Cross in this regard has a specific word as a national blooddresser. The task of the national organiser of blood donation actions is to keep an eye on the implementation of these actions, to prevent uncontrolled implementation of blood supply actions, so that the number of organisers does not increase too much, which could cause the Slovenian blood donation to fall into the crisis instead of developing, to be recorded in the Red Cross of Slovenia and the Minister of Health also says that it is necessary to have exactly the right number of blood donors, not too much and not too little, so it is also likely with the organisers of the blood supply. As I said, I don't want the field of blood donation to become a market activity. I wish that, as in the past, we could find in time that we have a well-organised blood supply in Slovenia, that we will recognize that there was no monopoly, and that we will also recognize those who have organised well that this matter has been well done. Earlier it was said that only Bevk brought ideology into the debate because he mentioned Karitas as the first discusser, but that is not the case, Karitas was mentioned before him in this debate, but nothing serious. So we want to achieve, in particular, with this amendment, that the Red Cross, as the national blooddresser, retains the role it has and thus ensures a quality organisation for the future. I do not agree with this thesis or claim that even if something is good, it is necessary to change. Of course, it is possible that things improve, but who can improve them, the one who has shown in the past that he can work well in this area. I propose to support this amendment by Members and Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u62	Thank you. In particular, the minister who's the doctor will probably tell me that any change is not necessarily a change for the better. When I asked him about the blood supply strategy in the parliamentary question, I asked him this question when we faced other organisers and providers of the plasma-paying blood actions in Slovenian territory, in particular in northeastern Slovenia. The answer to the strategy was not very extensive or in-depth, it was only a guarantee that future bleeding would be based on volunteering and not payment and that Slovenians were self-sufficient in terms of blood supply. Since Article 33 was mentioned, and where the Minister referred to the fact that we do not know that there is a well defined difference here, I would point out that this particular article does not clearly state the difference, since it is also imputed to the organiser to carry out a blood donation, so let's just name it after we talk about it. However, I think that it would be a very sensitive matter for a national organisation to be so transparent, because of the inability to intrusions and abuses that we have been so afraid to leave to one, which, of course, gives the possibility of organisation to others and thus also implementation. I think the amendment has been properly tabled, and if the intentions were to be good and to give thanks seriously, then we would accept and support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Although I did not receive a letter quoted by my colleague Kontič from the Red Cross, I do not know why, but I could bring some gold medal of the Red Cross, which I took as an organizer and as a blooddresser. Why am I using my colleague Kontic's statement? Because I think there's at least one thing you've read, Comrade Kontic, it's not the organizer's authority, but it's the authority of the bloodstream operator, and it's the Blood Transfusion Institute. And I agree with the discussion by my colleague Majda, who says that in Article 33 it appears that on the committee when this amendment was adopted, you did not or did not separate the organisers from the operators and it has been stated that the national broadcaster is the Red Cross. Yes, it says, blood supply can carry out, the Red Cross does not carry out blood supply actions, but organizes and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u65	I'll be very grateful, mate, if you let me run the session. Mr. Kontic, would you like a word? Okay, you're out of time, right? I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided by the time of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th agenda or no later than 21:00 and 25 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. I salute the Minister and the co-workers! We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Second Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners. We have 40 minutes to discuss. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I would like to invite a representative of the government to give an additional explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u66	Hello! Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present to you in a short time a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on foreigners, which will transpose into the Slovenian legal order the three directives of the European Union governing the granting of residence permits for victims of trafficking in human beings, researchers and students. At the same time, the draft law is also in line with the new Schengen Borders Act. A new reason has been added for granting temporary residence permits for third-country nationals who are victims of trafficking in human beings who are authorised in case they participate as witnesses in criminal proceedings. In addition, the issue of a permit or detention in the Republic of Slovenia is specifically regulated during the so-called stabilisation period or recovery period, when the victims are in fact deciding whether to participate as a witness in criminal proceedings. The proposal for a law governs the issue of temporary residence permits for the purpose of carrying out research work. It also provides for the so-called mobility of researchers who, in another Member State of the European Union, have a residence permit for a researcher and who want to stay in another Member State for a certain period of time, i.e. up to three months, so that research can be carried out in several countries at the same time or at the same time. The bill complements the possibility of staying abroad for study purposes, which is regulated by the law already in force. The supplement will allow all who reside in Slovenia on the basis of a temporary residence permit for a study to carry out work during the period of validity of this authorisation, in order to cover the costs of the study. The draft law is aligned, as I mentioned earlier, with the new Schengen Borders Act, in order to maintain provisions which are the same as in the Code and to amend the provisions in a certain part by referring to the application of this Code. It is also newly stipulated that a third-country national has an opportunity to appeal against refusal of entry, which is not possible under the current regime. In addition to forcible removal, the draft law also regulates the voluntary removal of a foreigner from the country in cases where a foreigner cooperates with the police in the removal process. For unaccompanied minors who enter or stay illegally in the Republic of Slovenia, in addition to staying in a foreign centre, the possibility of staying elsewhere, of course, under the supervision of a social protection authority, where such accommodation is suitable for them, is more appropriate for minors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Zinrajhu, Secretary of State. The draft law was also addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Kucler Dolinar, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u68	Thank you, Chairman. Welcome to the Secretary of State, fellow Members and fellow Members! At its 23rd regular session, the Committee of the National Assembly on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the law amending and supplementing the law on foreigners as the home body. The representative of the proposer, Minister of the Interior, Dragutin Mate, added a supplementary explanation to the article of the draft law, stressing that the fundamental reason for the drafting of the draft law, the harmonisation of the law on foreigners with the EU acquis and also the substantive transposition of the three directives and the Schengen Borders Code into our legal order. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the comments made in the written opinion of their service were due regard for the amendments tabled by the SDS, New Slovenia, SLS and DeSUS. The draft law was also given a written opinion by the Commission of the State Council on the political system, which states that the Commission supports the bill and highlighted some of the solutions drawn up in relation to certain articles of the bill. Representatives of the UNHCR and the Peace Institute and representative of Slovenian philanthropy also participated in the committee. While the representatives of those institutions welcomed the harmonisation of the current law with European legislation on victims of trafficking in human beings, as new categories of vulnerable persons, they also pointed out, in their opinion, some of the questionable or problematic aspects of the proposed amendments and additions to the question of the suspension of a remedy, victims of trafficking in human beings, further the question of minors. He explained further to the concerns expressed by NGOs the representative of the proposer, who stressed that Slovenia respects all international conventions and directives in this area, and ensured that the proposed provisions of this amendment also represent an appropriate and full substantive transposition of directives in the work relating to the law on foreigners into our legal order. He pointed out, however, that some of the comments of NGOs could not be taken into account from a formal point of view, since they did not relate to the law on foreigners, but rather to the area governed by the law on asylum. With regard to the procedure with unaccompanied minors, parents or other legal representatives who enter illegally or who are residing illegally in our country, he stressed that in no case can a minor be returned to his home country until he has received appropriate reception, and in no case must a minor be returned without escort to another country in contravention of international conventions. He also gave further clarifications on the proposed solution when the alien who was refused entry into the Republic of Slovenia was given the right to appeal. This is a new option, in accordance with the Schengen Code, whereby a person who has been refused entry into the Schengen area may appeal to this decision. He explained that a foreigner is not in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in this case, and therefore it is up to him to resolve the complaint whether or not to allow it to enter. Members and members of the Committee have not supported the proposals of non-governmental organisations, which have been summarised in the amendments of the LDS and MP Miran Potrč, the amendment of the LDS Club and MP Miran Potrč to Article 4, under which the appeal against the decision would have held enforcement, but have been withdrawn since the amendments have been satisfied by the explanations provided by the drafter in this context. The Committee adopted amendments to the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups at the end of the vote also on all the articles of the law together and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Petan on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u70	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The last amendment to the Aliens Act is from the end of 2005, which is only valid for a good half year. The reason for such a rapid re-amendment is the adoption of three Council of Europe Directives on residence permits for the citizens of the Council of Europe. For the residence of nationals of foreign countries who are victims of trafficking in human beings, the Directive on the conditions for admission of third-country nationals for the purposes of study, exchange of pupils and for cases of training, and the Directive on a specific procedure for granting access to third-country nationals for the purposes of scientific research. However, this content needs to be put in the context of the functioning of the European Union, with a focus on migration. The rule of law of the European Union governs the regime for the uniform management of the external borders of the Member States and a new regulation on the rules of movement of persons across borders has been adopted in this area. The Regulation is part of the Schengen Borders Code and fully regulates border crossings such as border crossings, border controls, entry conditions, human resources, border controls, control methods and so on. For this reason, the categories of foreigners mentioned are also treated differently and this is the subject of this novel. Foreigners who are victims of trafficking in human beings shall be subject to the first temporary residence permit in the same way as other third-country nationals, in the same way as the authorisation is governed by the Directive which harmonises the law on aliens. A new bill also stipulates that victims of trafficking in human beings during the stabilisation period or recovery period in which the victim of trafficking in human beings decides whether to participate as a witness in the criminal procedure of trafficking in human beings shall be allowed to remain in the Republic of Slovenia. For the purpose of allowing third-country nationals to enter for the purposes of scientific research, the proposal for a law on foreigners also defines the granting of temporary residence permits for the purpose of carrying out research work. It differs from the licence issued to third-country nationals for reasons of employment or work. The mobility of researchers authorised to reside as a researcher in another Member State is also regulated. The Law on Foreigners, which regulates the granting of temporary residence permits for study purposes, also changes the content, among other things, of third-country nationals who would reside in our country on the basis of a temporary residence permit for study during the period of validity of this permit, are also allowed to do work for the purpose of covering the costs of the study. For that reason, the provision in force of the Act, which provides that a foreigner in the Republic of Slovenia may reside only in accordance with the purpose for which he has been authorised, is also amended. The proposed law fully aligns the description of types of visas with the Schengen acquis by defining a new short-stay visa and long-stay visa instead of an entry visa. The possibility of extending the short-stay visa is also further defined. In part, the procedure for removal from a foreign country which resides illegally in the Republic of Slovenia is also amended. In addition to forcible removal, voluntary removal of a foreigner from the country is also reordered in cases where he is only willing to cooperate with the police. We will support this amendment in the parliamentary group because it introduces a certain flexibility of individual categories of people of foreigners to enter our country, and in the cases mentioned above, we will therefore support this law in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I ask Ms Lovtijar Bebler to present the LDS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, the amendment of the law is necessary because of the transposition of the three directives into our legal order. In the LDS, we support the inclusion of foreigners who have been victims of trafficking in human beings as special categories of vulnerable persons who are able to obtain a temporary residence permit. We also support the possibility of dealing specifically with victims of human trafficking who are allowed to be detained in the Republic of Slovenia. In the LDS, however, we regret that we have not paid special attention to minors without accompanying parents or other legal representatives, and we have therefore prepared amendments in line with the warnings of the High Commissioner for Refugees in Slovenia, Slovenian philanthropy, Amnesty International and many other non-governmental organisations, which, as a particularly vulnerable group of people, treat minors without the assistance of parents or other legal representatives. This is a very small number of minors. Non-governmental organisations report that minors, victims of trafficking in human beings, parents or other legal agents are subject to 5 to 10 per year. However, the coalition MPs opposed our amendments and, unfortunately, the articles to which we tabled the amendments remained closed. Again, when amendments, although very reasonable and justified, were not only adopted because the LDS had submitted them, or because the children, because they are foreigners and not ours, are not worth our special concerns. The LDS will support the law in spite of everything that has been said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Kokalj, on behalf of New Slovenia, has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u74	Good-bye, everybody! As already mentioned, the proposed amendments and additions to the Aliens Act are due to compliance with European legislation, the said Directives and the Community Code Regulation on rules governing the movement of persons across borders in the so-called Schengen Borders Code. The law also eliminates some of the shortcomings of the law on foreigners, which have proved to be in implementation itself. The law also simplifies the procedure for those seasonal workers who wish to obtain a temporary residence permit for employment or work. In order to facilitate criminal proceedings against perpetrators of crimes engaged in trafficking in human beings, a new reason is added for granting temporary residence permits to those foreigners who are victims of trafficking in human beings and decide to participate in the procedure itself with law enforcement authorities. The granting of a temporary residence permit for the purpose of carrying out research work is also redefined. The permit shall be issued for a maximum of one year and for up to three months the researcher may reside in the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of a permit obtained in another Member State. This promotes the mobility of researchers, while at the same time facilitating the acquisition of permits on a case-by-case basis. Foreigners who obtain a visa on the basis of the purpose of scientific or research work will have the opportunity to bring closer family members with them. Foreigners entering the Republic of Slovenia for study will have the opportunity to perform certain work to cover the costs of the study. Their position is thus aligned with our students, so that they can obtain additional resources to make their studies easier. Young foreigners acquire alternative residence in foreign centres by amending the law. They will be able to stay elsewhere, of course under the supervision of social protection authorities, where such accommodation is more suitable for minors and thus be excluded from a harmful social environment. The costs of forcible removal of a foreigner from the country have also been further adjusted. The costs shall be borne by a natural or legal person who has made it possible for a foreigner to obtain a visa if it has not shown the right purpose of the entry of a foreigner. In many cases, there are virtual employment contracts concluded with a view to a foreigner entering the country and in fact does not do this work and does it in black or goes to another Member State of the European Union. The law, as I mentioned, is aligned with the Schengen acquis and also brings two new types of visas. In our New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposed solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Bajc will speak on behalf of the SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u76	Dear representative of the government, colleague and colleague, nice greeting! The new law on foreigners must be adopted primarily in order to bring the law into line with the European Union directives and the Schengen Borders Act, in order to comply with European Union rules. Moreover, the amendment also brings about the elimination of some of the shortcomings that have been demonstrated in practice in the implementation of the current law on foreigners. The most important substantive novelty of the bill under consideration is the identification of a new reason for granting a temporary residence permit to foreigners from non-member countries of the European Union in Slovenia, in the case of individuals or individuals who are victims of trafficking in human beings who are willing to participate as witnesses in the criminal procedure of trafficking in human beings. We welcome such a solution in the Slovenian People's Party. We are probably all not aware that Slovenia's role in human trafficking is more than negligible. Slovenia acts primarily as a country of transit and sometimes as a target country in this respect. According to the Equal Opportunities Office, in the area of trafficking in women for sexual exploitation in Slovenia, even the country of origin is expected to be the country of origin. We hope that the proposed solution will contribute both to the protection of victims of trafficking in human beings and to the successful detection and investigation of crimes related to trafficking in human beings. Harmonisation with European law also entails allowing foreign nationals to enter and reside when it comes to scientific research, studies, exchange of pupils or voluntary work. The new regulation in this area is also important for Slovenia, as it also allows other citizens of other countries to make easier decisions about research work or studies in Slovenia. This will indirectly enable, on the one hand, the acquisition or attracting of additional foreign experts and, on the other hand, the dissemination of our knowledge from a non-member country of the European Union. With regard to the conditions of the procedure and the reasons for refusing entry into the country when it comes to nationals of foreign countries, the amendment of the law goes to the application of the Schengen Border Act. In accordance with the Schengen Code, a legal remedy shall be introduced as a new one in the event of a person being refused entry into the Schengen area. This person shall have the possibility of a complaint in which the solution depends, whether or not the entry into the country is permitted. Such a solution is in accordance with European legislation, while we are convinced that it also represents sufficient legal protection for foreigners entering our country. While the law has financial implications for public funds, given that funds will be spent in particular to protect fundamental human rights, their consumption is more than justified in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party. Members of the Slovenian People's Party Group will support the proposed amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Zagorac will present the position of the SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on foreigners. In fact, nothing else remains, as we have heard from all my speakers, is about implementing the directives of the European Community into Slovenian law. I think that there has been a sufficient summary of what the law says, what the law provides and what it is intended for, so I will skip this part myself and maybe even save us some time. Interestingly, no one has touched the financial consequences of that law. The law provides, I would say, there are about 130 to 140 million Slovenian tolar financial consequences. The most obvious is the fact that the funds will be redeployed within the Ministry of the Interior's lines, which I think is fine because it goes within the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Health. Here's the thing. It's a little different. The Ministry of Health, after the last so-called public affairs, is not a ministry where finance could be taken away, but more could be added to solve the problems that arise in this ministry, so it is with interest or interest that we will monitor in the Slovenian National Party, from which the Ministry of Health’s budget for the implementation of the law on foreigners will go or where this money will be taken from the Minister of Health, when we know that it is already in financial distress. It is true in this law that certain directives from the European Union must be introduced into the law, as I said at the outset. The bill is also welcomed in UNHCR and in the last year it is one of the first laws not criticised by this institution. What, though, is the possibility of abuse in this law? In particular, I would like to touch the status of a researcher. We know that the abuse of this status by applicants has already taken place at home. I am afraid that here in the law a dictatorship is set up so that these abuses can, I will say, accumulate or even increase, so I also expect the Ministry of Home Affairs and, of course, the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology to be particularly careful here when it comes to the granting of foreign status. I would like to stress once again the financial consequences that no one has touched in their introduction so far are the ones that are most in sight. Taking the Ministry of Health, which, in all public cases, is already already in more than too much debt, I find that this government makes absolutely no sense and will only show for a moment whether we were right or not. It seems to me that it will be very difficult for this ministry to take financial resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Rezman will be the last to speak on behalf of DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The views of the parliamentary groups have so far shown that the law or proposal for a law, as it is prepared, is worthy of support, and will also be experienced by the DeSUS Group of Members. We therefore support the proposal, although we would be even more pleased if at least one of the amendments that have been proposed, which, according to the content of the DeSUS Group, were accepted. In principle, however, it is a kind of legislative and legal routine that we carry out in the national assembly when we are aligning our legal order with what makes EU law a duty. It is therefore a matter of harmonising the three directives and regulations or laws of the Schengen border and all these implementations mean something that is also worthy of our support. Perhaps it is right to mention that the government has responded correctly both in time and in content. So we are not plagued by time pressure, we are not in any kind of delay, and we do not adopt legislation to reverse what is sometimes happening. It is also right that we agree with the content of what has been done, not only because of the implementation of the European directives and the regulation, but also because of the fact that there have been some other weaknesses that the applicant has seen in the implementation of the law on foreigners at the same time. We believe that this is to increase the protection of the Schengen border, that it is to help those who are victims more than it has been so far, to enable and contribute to the promotion of development also through these frameworks, with these conditions talking about who, how, how much time we can spend either researching or charity work. Due to these positive characteristics, the DeSUS Group is in solidarity with the proposed amendment. It must be stressed that the proposal has also been approved by the UNHCR, despite some concerns and additional proposals, but it seems important that this alignment with the views of the Ministry and the UNHCR has not been a daily phenomenon. We will therefore support this bill in the parliamentary group. We regret that one of the supplements has not been adopted, especially the one that speaks of the additional protection of minors, but that the law is willing to do well enough to deserve support.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u81	Thank you very much. This concludes the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I am concluding it and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Friday, 14 July, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I welcome both representatives of the Ministry. We're moving to 8. Dot of the day - another defends the proposal of the takeover law. The Minister of Mags has just joined us. A viscous, which I also invite for further explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The takeover legislation, which is now in the second reading before you, provides an important system-wide regulatory framework related both to securities market activities and to the corporate ownership component of company law. The existing takeover law shows a series of shortcomings and transitional features that require appropriate renovation also in the light of the opportunities for the capital market of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, Slovenia, as a member of the European Community, is obliged to harmonise its national legislation and implement in its legal order the relevant directives of the European Community and it is therefore important that this takeover legislation also takes account of all the directives adopted in this field, and in particular implements the takeovers directive, which has expired on 20 May of this year. It seems extremely important to me to emphasise that regulated solutions in legislation are in line with international standards, which introduce a more equal and transparent role for all actors, including the country, and better protection of the interests of all, and in particular, I stress, particularly minority shareholders. Let me mention just a few of the key innovations that are in this takeover legislation or in the takeover law, in view of the regulation so far and some of the specific arrangements that raise the standard and tighter regulation of the takeover legislation in this law, in line with the requirements of the European Directive. First of all, it seems important to me to emphasise the scope of the Act, since, in addition to the minimum standard set out in the Directive for public limited companies, the proposal laid down the mandatory application of the provisions of the Act also for larger non-public shareholders whose operation is similar to that of public shareholders due to unconsolidated ownership and their financial power. It is also important to redefine persons who act in a coordinated manner and determine the contentious and indisputable assumptions of concerted action. The range of persons considered to be acting in a coordinated manner is wider and, in certain cases, there is a presumption that persons are acting in a coordinated manner. However, it is on the part of the acquirer to challenge these assumptions of concerted action. Important are provisions determining what the fair price offered by the acquirer in the acquisition bid is, and it must not be lower than the maximum price at which the acquirer or persons acting in concert with it acquired securities during the 12 months preceding the publication of the offer. The protection of a fair price is guaranteed another year after the takeover offer. Furthermore, the deadlines in the acquisition procedure are clear and transparent. The requirements for informing all parties and, in particular, workers' representatives of all key elements related to the takeover offer are very important, in particular with regard to small shareholders, and so on. There are also new sanctions for infringements. I also think it is important to stress the stillness of voting rights from all shares. This means that the offender in the congregation will not be able to exercise or be allowed to exercise voting rights if he has broken the law. Furthermore, the Securities Markets Agency has received a substantially broader and more active legitimacy for bringing a contested action, in particular in the event that the target company makes it possible for the recipient to exercise voting rights contrary to the law. The takeover law also builds on the current arrangements for defence mechanisms. Thus, it further defines the increase in the amount of fines. Transitional provisions shall also address the situations encountered with regard to existing exceptions and harmonised conduct. In this way, we also want to show a parking lot in some way and to be a little clearer and more transparent to this current situation when the law is in force. At the end of this introduction, I would like to point out that a very broad group of experts participated in the preparation. I believe that the law is very good and a new chapter in the takeover legislation in Slovenia. I am also pleased to note that this is the first law, which has also come as a test of the Partnership for Development and has been coordinated and is also coordinated with the partners of Social Democracy. The government or the Ministry of the Economy have argued that the amendments that are now appearing in plenary today have been rejected. On the Committee on the Economy, they have already been presented and rejected with the same arguments, which will be repeated below. Even now, we feel that they are unnecessary, and we do not support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ferri Horvat, to present the report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Economy considered the draft law at its 19th meeting, on 28.6.2006. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. The main part of the legislative and legal service's comments was taken into account by the adoption of the amendments to the Committee which are incorporated into the amended proposal. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. He was briefed on the proposals for amendments to the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders. These two amendments were not taken by the committee. He was familiar with the proposal for an amendment to the Ljubljana Stock Exchange. This proposal for a stock exchange is taken into account in the proposal for a law. The Committee has considered the amendments tabled. He accepted the amendment of SDS, SD, New Slovenia, SLS and DeSUS to Article 64, but did not accept the amendments of the LDS. In view of the very detailed description of the report and the summaries of the content of the opinions, the comments, as well as the debate on the committee that lasted for a good three hours, will not be angry that I will not interpret this report here in detail, because you have it in front of you. The amendments adopted are included in the amended law, which is an integral part of this report. I propose, on behalf of the committee, that you adopt the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u85	Thank you very much, even for saving your time. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members: the first word is from a colleague of mags. Squeaking on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that a new system law on acquisitions is needed. This system law must take into account everything that has been done in the area of takeover legislation within the EU. It is also necessary to take into account a few years of experience during the transition in our society. Even if we believe that the law is necessary, we estimate that the important issue of the specificity of ownership transformation that this law should regulate in such a way that it is much more accurate with a higher standard to regulate managers' buyouts, this is not properly regulated by the proposal for a law. For we estimate that the law should also regulate the procedure for the purchase of securities from companies which are not defined as public companies under the securities market law and the securities obtained by members of administrations or supervisory boards. We say this because, after we have made ownership transformation through the transformation of former social property into a designated property in Slovenia and when we have acquired a shareholder on one side of the company, on the other hand, management and others, in particular buyers and suppliers of individual services, we estimate that due to the specificity of Slovenian legislation, it is necessary to regulate the key conflict that managers in individual companies have. Managers on the one hand act as managers and, of course, want to, and it is their legitimate interest to become the main owners. And in the Liberal Democracy, we don't understand why the government, the ruling coalition, which, even in the last few years in this House of the National Assembly, has, in saying, "critified" the issue of insiderage, why this ruling coalition doesn't want to introduce an additional standard in this law that would protect everyone, especially those who don't have all the information, and these are small shareholders. We fear that the law, which simply says, regulates things like those within the European Union, but within the European Union there is no conflict between managers who want to become owners because the owners are already known in advance, we do not understand why the government, the ruling coalition, does not want to create a higher standard to prevent the abuse of internal information. That's the fact that managers play a double role. It is also a fact that, in accordance with the Company Act, we should act primarily for the benefit of all shareholders. But because they want, and I said, this is a legitimate interest, to strengthen their role as owners, there can be abuses. We do not say that abuse is always taking place, but abuse can occur, because the law does not clearly state what the duties of the administration, the managers and it is not clear enough what procedure is being taken in the case of companies that are not defined by the law on the market of securities by a public-sector goat. We also believe that it is not only an appropriate provision in the Company Act, which states that it is prohibited to lend loans to the takeover company, but we estimate that it is necessary in this law to prohibit the financing of the purchase of companies or the loan repayment programme from doing so by the acquiring company. Therefore, we will, of course, continue to defend some amendments and, depending on the decision on these amendments, we will decide whether or not to support the law. If the amendments are not adopted, if the ruling coalition does not follow some of our comments and to a greater extent protect small shareholders in the takeover law, then we cannot support the law and this law will, in particular, become the law on how to promote managers' buy-ins, not protect small shareholders, which is the content of the law everywhere in the market economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Ferri Horvat has the following word on behalf of the SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Members and Members of the Social Democrats Group will support the bill. We estimate that this is a very important law that will contribute to the development of the Slovenian capital market. The proposal follows to a large extent international standards, including the EU's takeover directive. It is particularly important for us to ensure greater transparency in the flow of acquisitions, which has often not been the case so far. It is also an extremely important equal position for all actors and better protection of the interests of shareholders, especially small shareholders, who have so far been often marginalized, not even excluded. It is important to inform all the parties and, in particular, the representatives of the workers; it is good that there are fairly detailed procedures, including deadlines in the takeover procedure. In view of the experience and also the acts that have taken place so far, a more precise definition of connected persons and persons acting in a coordinated manner is useful. In order to achieve the objectives of the law and its effective implementation, it is extremely important to strengthen the role of the Securities Market Agency, not only as a post-festum, but in the process of taking over. That is why, in the framework of the partnership coordination already referred to in the introduction, the Social Democrats paid particular attention to Article 64. We are pleased to note that they are the proponent, the real government and the coalition have listened to our arguments and have thus prepared and adopted a joint amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups and the SD Group, which sets out a more active role for the securities market. This is reflected, inter alia, in the provisions that the Agency shall, in addition to bringing an action against it on an official basis or on the request of persons who are able to bring an action under the Company Act, prohibit the taker from exercising voting rights in the target society and shall prohibit the purpose society from exercising those rights in the event of a violation of the law in particular of Article 63. The fact is that if we let everything go, as originally envisaged, only a judicial procedure that can or cannot be initiated, and we know that they are long-term, that this does not actually ensure effective implementation of the law. This entails, of course, a very responsible and demanding work for the Agency, but in our firm belief, it ensures a more effective implementation of the law. Finally, I would say that it is very useful for the applicant to include a wide range of institutions and individual experts in the drafting of the law. This really takes more time and effort from the proposer, but after experience and even after this experience, it finally leads to better solutions and it would be good to use this practice in the preparation of other, particularly difficult laws. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Mikolić to present the position of NSI.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u90	Well-welcome, distinguished Vice-President, government representative, distinguished colleague and colleague! Slovenia's entry into the European Union and the planned economic reforms require appropriate regulation in the field of takeover legislation. Arrangement of acquisitions according to international standards is the basis for effective protection of small investors in Slovenia as well. Surely we all agree that investor protection must be ensured in the securities market and that all the transitional features contained in the existing law adopted at the end of the property transformation process must be eliminated. The current law contains internally inconsistent definitions that make it difficult to control. Large players in the capital market can manipulate existing legislation in many cases to the detriment of small investors. In the past, this law has enabled the unsanctioned parking of shares and the imprudent takeover of the control of the shareholder company, of course without a public offer for small shareholders. Due to the very important material for Slovenia's economic and financial space in the New Slovenia Group, we welcome the comprehensive solution of the takeover legislation or the new law sent to the Parliamentary procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The lawmaker has drawn up a solution with which Slovenia can join a so-called group of countries with modern and, above all, effective takeover legislation. A modern legal framework of the takeover legislation is proposed, which is in line with the requirements of the European Directive and is coherent in substance and in law with other legislation in the field of company law and the law of securities and financial law. In the New Slovenia Group, we support solutions to the so-called model takeover legislation, which are, in fact, perfectly logical, such as that all shareholders treat each other equally, so that it is compulsory to take over the takeover threshold, that it is the duty to disclose the data of the actors involved, so that there must be a limitation on certain defence actions that prevent taking over. The proposal for a new takeover law is based on these principles, complements and adds a number of new institutions, such as the design of voting rights, the institution of persons operating in a coordinated, fair price, the possibility of using defence mechanisms and so on. Much time has been devoted to the provisions of Article 4 and to the amendment of the LDS Club to Article 4 and the amendment to Article 4 and the amendment to Article 2a thereto as a further upgrade in the interest of the protection of small shareholders. In the New Slovenia Group, we agree that privatisation in Slovenia has not yet been completed and you cannot completely deny that managers are in a privileged position compared to small shareholders, as they have much more information and influence on the development of the company. This will always be the case, the applicant's argument for the coming time. In Novi Slovenija we would add the time behind us, the time when property transformation took place, the time of so-called wild privatisations and the time of many abnormal managers' buyouts. Just to warn us that we would not only be concerned about the future, in order to forget as soon as possible what has happened in this area in the past. In New Slovenia we will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Janc will present the SLS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice President, Government Representative, colleague and colleague! In view of the continued development of the capital market in Slovenia, the current law on acquisitions has become insufficient and has also become obsolete in certain parts. The last amendment to the current law was adopted before 2000. After this year, Slovenia has become a member of the European Union and thus our market has become part of the common European market. A new takeover law is also needed because of the European Community's takeover directive, which has already expired in our legal order. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we particularly welcome the fact that the takeover law has been prepared in cooperation with a large number of institutions and experts, which are in various ways linked to this takeover legislation. Such a method of drafting legislation undoubtedly ensures that laws are prepared in a qualitative, professional manner, taking into account the experience of the profession as well as of other actors in a particular field. The draft law is therefore good, quality and allows for the attainable objectives pursued by the applicant. We also believe that we should include in the preparation of all major laws the widest possible range of professional and other interested public. The capital market in Slovenia is underdeveloped today. Old-fashioned legislation also contributes to this. However, the adaptation of the European Directive's takeover legislation brings about the implementation of the modern framework and the principles of legislative adoption. The solutions proposed will allow greater transparency and better control over infringements of the rules. It is also important to establish a level playing field for all entities in the capital market. This aligns the status of all entities and thus removes the exceptions which, in particular with regard to the application of the threshold, are now laid down by the law in force. Slovenia has long advocated a market economy and the current government has also announced the withdrawal of the country from the economy. The removal of these exceptions certainly represents an important shift in this direction. In recent months we have faced the problems of small shareholders in Slovenia and the fact that their interests are not adequately protected. The proposed law fully follows the principle of the protection of the interests of all, in particular those of minority shareholders. However, we are probably all aware that good legislation does not solve anything in itself, and the key prerequisite for effective takeover legislation will be control over its implementation, as the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia specifically pointed out in its opinion. Here the Agency for the Market in Securities will play a fundamental role, which also imposes additional tasks on the law. The Agency will have to monitor this law consistently, as this is the only way the law will be implemented effectively. The adoption of the takeover law will normalise the situation on the capital market in Slovenia. In our opinion, it will also become more transparent, and as a result, due to the more stable market situation, we can expect the additional interest of foreign capital in performing on the Slovenian market. We will therefore support this law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The DeSUS position will be presented by the mag. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u94	Honourable Presidents, Government Representative and Honourable Fellows! In our Group of Members, we believe that the implementation of the European Takeovers Directive, offers in our legal order, thus requiring appropriate renovation and harmonisation or takeover arrangements in accordance with international standards, in the sense of greater and better transparency of the Slovenian capital market. Other important changes concern in particular the establishment of a common delegate and the collection of powers, in particular the revision, enforcement of claims for damages and the regulation of the status of minority shareholders. In our opinion, such a law represents a comprehensive system-wide overhaul of the acquisition material, which achieves a renewed Slovenian capital market. Thus, by introducing some new institutions, we are correcting or correcting the shortcomings of the transition period, which was subject to unequal treatment by all shareholders. And it is the protection of the interests of all, in particular small shareholders, that is the key issue of this law. By doing so, this means equal treatment of all shareholders and information and information, the determination of a fair price, the transparency of the acquisition process and compliance with all the conditions of the acquisition contract or offer, and not least protection, including legal rights. With such legal solutions, we will join a group of countries with a modern and efficient capital market. With regard to the greater powers of the Securities Market Agency and the competent courts as supervisory authorities, we note that these extended powers will require the provision of additional financial resources. The revised takeover legislation, in our view, certainly represents a systemic whole within the framework of the functioning of the securities market, as well as the ownership of corporate structures. It seems to us extremely important that all the criteria included in the takeover game are treated equally and thus the transparency of both the process and the main takeovers, managers and countries involved. Through practice or application we will be called better takeover legislation. We therefore assess in our parliamentary group that future management buyouts will take place in a more correct and appropriate manner, in particular transparent and in accordance with the rules. In the light of what we have said, our parliamentary group supports the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u95	Thank you very much. And he will be the last to present the position of SDS Stane Pajk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u96	Dear Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The law now in force was adopted in 1997. This time coincides with the completion of the property transformation process. During this time, a secondary market for securities began to develop. As a result, the need to regulate the procedures for the acquisition of companies was demonstrated. As we look at the law now in force with a distance of time, we find that it has a variety of shortcomings and transitional features. It has been repeatedly played by users on the capital market to the detriment of small shareholders and investors. The current law is urgently needed to be recast in such a way as to comply with European legislation in this field, since the Republic of Slovenia is an integral part of the internal capital market in the European Union. The takeovers Directive 2004/25EC governing take-up activities should be respected. The existing law does not comply with that Directive. The implementation deadline was 20 May 2006 and has already expired. One of the reasons for amending the existing law is that the reform of the takeover legislation is included in the framework of economic and social reforms to increase prosperity in Slovenia, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the end of the previous year. Measure 22 refers to the trend towards a developed capital market and the planned withdrawal of the country from the management and ownership of Slovenian companies. The special features of the transition should be removed. I would like to mention some of the main principles and objectives pursued by the law. The revised law must achieve substantive and legal coherence with other legislation in the field of company law, securities law and financial law. For all operators on the market, the same rules of the game should be laid down, without exception; the relevant segment of non-disclosure companies should also be included in the framework of regulated acquisition activities; appropriate information and level of voting shares and take-over thresholds should be developed; the concept of persons acting in a coordinated manner is effectively designed; effective supervisory and procedural mechanisms and fines for sanctioning offenders should be developed. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposal for a takeover law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We have also concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the three articles and three amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 11 July 2006. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. I'm closing the debate. Thank you very much. I am putting to the debate Article 22 and once again the amendment of the LDS. Mag. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u98	We propose to support the amendment to Article 22. For we estimate that if the amendment is not adopted, the basic purpose of the law would be to play. This purpose of the Act is to impose on holders who exceed the threshold to make a public offer to purchase securities, that in short all small shareholders have the right to sell their shares so that they do not remain locked in companies that are formally taken over. Let me give you an example. The best example of this business is the Mercator business. There, two companies, together with a third company, acted in a coordinated manner, went over the take-over threshold due to the so-called conceptual operation, and should offer 64,000 small shareholders to Mercator. This, as you know, has not been done, but without a takeover premium, these two companies have obviously been allowed to carry out this transaction for other reasons, for reasons related to the acquisition of certain other newspaper companies. The law stated in its Article 22 a whole set of reasons which give an exception when it is not necessary to make a takeover offer and we propose that these provisions be deleted. We believe that it is necessary to delete point 3 in the first paragraph of this Article, which states that it is not necessary to make a takeover offer when a merger or division of a share company is effected by replacing the securities of a legal person who has ceased to be merged or allocated if the purpose of the merger or division has not been taken over by the target company. This is only one of the non-transparent mechanisms by which those who offer to take over avoid the obligation imposed by law to offer all small shareholders the opportunity to buy their shares. Here it is that if we do so, simply if you accept our amendment, then you will prevent the non-transparent possibilities of taking over, but if you do not accept the amendment, then of course it is more than clear that the ruling coalition obviously also with some partners simply promotes non-transparency in the takeover legislation. For these reasons, of course, we believe that it would be appropriate to accept the amendment. We have drafted an amendment on the initiative of the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders, an association that has been struggling for some time to adopt a number of laws that would allow, not only in this law, but also with stricter legislation in the law on companies and with the adoption of a law on the protection of small shareholders in the case of legal successors of authorised investment companies, so we believe that these amendments are justified and we will be very pleased that Mr Vizjak or the government of Janš will explain why there is no need to delete the proposed exceptions from the law itself. So much for the explanation of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Dear Member, we are happy to answer your questions. In the opening, however, let me point out that the Government or the Ministry of the Economy have cooperated with the association of small shareholders in the preparation of this law. Their contribution to the quality of this text is great. I thank them for this cooperation. The type of comments shall be taken into account. Therefore, I would just like to point out that, of course, at some points, we were unable to come together and that this is one of them. The LDS proposes to delete in Article 22 the 4 points of the first paragraph which define, in fact, the person who has reached the threshold and who is not obliged to make a takeover offer. In two of these four points, one way or another, the offer is made because we are talking about another person such as the takeover. The takeover bid shall be made in the case of points 4 and 5. Since the takeover offer has been made, the protection of all other shareholders is, of course, taken into account, and I am surprised at what these two points would in any way suggest to the amendment's proposer that it is some kind of takeover process. And we're really surprised by that reasoning. However, points 3 and 6 are in fact cases which do not deal with the takeover, otherwise we have a security guard in Article 4 sanctioning or upgrading these provisions and an obligation to make a takeover offer under this Act at the first further acquisition of these securities, unless, of course, the takeover threshold is impossible to reach. So what are these two points talking about? First of all, they are talking about the implementation of a merger or division of a share company by replacing the securities of a legal entity which has ceased to be merged or split. The honourable Member, if you think this is possible, is a purely practical solution in the event of a merger or division of shares, of which two congregations have to agree with 2/3 of the majority on both sides and there is no way to talk about the acquisition in this case, and that is why it is also defined as an exception. In point 6, this is the fourth of the four exceptions, and we are talking about the acquisition of securities that have been eliminated as inputs in the creation or increase of its core capital. That means someone with a stake and a position of holding company. So here, too, it's more than obvious that we can't talk about taking over, so we're also treating it as an exception, not just for the sake of practicality, but also for the purpose and logic of matters. These exceptions are also present in another comparable takeover legislation, for example in Austria, England and in no way constitute an interference with the rights of small shareholders. They are also made possible by the Takeovers Directive and there is absolutely no way to talk about any by-passenger or any intentional exceedance of other provisions of the takeover law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mag. Squeak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u102	I am pleased that the Minister is so sure of his rightness, but you know, Mr Minister, both point 3 and point 6 are linked to the question of what is and what was not the intention of the taker. And we're not saying anything else, in the case of, say, so-called merger, it's true that two companies with a 75% majority decided on it, but a quarter of the shareholders of both companies said nothing about it. If two groups of shareholders, which each manages 75% of both companies, unite these two companies, small shareholders will remain locked down. And that's all this is about. And that is why we say that if there is a breach of the threshold for the acquisition of societies, then these so-called takers should make a public offer to those who remain locked up in these two societies that are now united. First case. And the second case is holding companies. It's a holding issue. The question of holding companies is essentially related to whether, in fact, individual target companies transfer certain ownership entitlements to holding companies and then, of course, this holding company, which otherwise controls two companies, does not carry out what would logically be done if, under the general rules, the acquisition threshold was exceeded and the takeover bids should be published. And these are all the specificities that have already been implemented in Slovenian practice, unfortunately they were not for a number of reasons, even because the legislation did not regulate them, properly quoted and properly sanctioned, and therefore many small shareholders remained locked in societies. And what you are now proposing, you are merely giving additional reasons, giving the legal basis that, in those cases, small shareholders will not be able to go to these companies. Since this is often not a public shareholding society, they do not actually have any way out, but they will simply lose their assets. And Mr. Secretary, that's your goal. Your goal in this acquisition law is to concentrate ownership. And in a few years, of course, the biggest owners will be those who are today managers who will abuse internal information. This is a question of philosophy that every ruling coalition wants to develop when it forms a particular economy. You have decided to greatly facilitate non-transparent management acquisitions by means of the takeover law. And we don't say anything else, if that's what managers want, two exclusive conditions have to be. The first condition is that an external auditor who is not associated with these should be involved. You didn't accept that. And the second condition is that the financial resources of the target company cannot be used to force the managers to force or take over foreign money. And this, Mr Minister, you have denied and rejected so on the Committee on the Economy, and you refuse to do so today. We're just saying, the amendment we're proposing is going to protect the small shareholders to a greater extent. You simply do not take into account that the majority of companies are non-disclosure companies, so that we do not force them to go to the stock market where the price would be created. This government is fully operational as Minister Bajuk, for example, stops one other law on the protection of small shareholders in authorised investment companies, in order to ensure that these companies become small shareholders and, of course, small shareholders of various assets, and thus, through the valuation of the price on the stock exchange, they can receive the right remuneration for the contribution they have. And you will, of course, be able to do so under the takeover law in the case of companies that will be excluded from it. That's why we proposed amendments. The vote on these amendments will show what the philosophy of this government is. And the philosophy of this government is to support non-transparent management acquisitions at the expense of the target society. Who's gonna pay? Small stockholders will pay for it. To be more plastic, Mr. Secretary. You probably know quite a few Slovenian construction companies currently controlled by the companies of the authorised authorities. And in these companies, the managers have an important word. In a few years, this law will make it perfectly legitimate for a construction company XY to become a construction company Z, by naming the company by managers who are today key shareholders in companies authorised. However, small shareholders, who are also often employed in these companies, will first lose their share and lose their jobs in the next phase. That's the philosophy you're taking. And we're not saying anything else. We do not oppose the fact that managers will become more shareholders in these companies. We just want to ensure transparent conditions. There are no such transparent conditions in the takeover law. You also prove this by objecting to the amendment to Article 22, so we cannot support this, because in our opinion it substantially changes the ownership structure in Slovenian companies. And in a few years, small shareholders, voters and voters will assess this appropriately when deciding on it in the elections. In the meantime, all this will be legitimate, Mr. Minister, everything will be legitimate. It will be legitimate for the main shareholders in the companies authorised to become the main shareholders in the Slovenian companies currently controlled by the companies authorised. Is this what you predicted in your pre-election programs? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u104	Thank you. Amendment proposed in the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u105	Excuse me, Mr. Mikolitch. Mr. Minister has spoken, and you will have his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u106	Of course, it is necessary to react to these indications, which are completely inaccurate, actually malicious and in some way, given that this is a characteristic opposition Member, also understandable. Let me just stress that the takeover of legislation is an ideal opportunity for us to also face the transfer of some, because the Liberal Democracy or Members of the Liberal Democracy have put their law into the parliamentary procedure a few months ago, and from this comparison we can definitely see this transposition today. A number of these solutions, which we are considering in the amendment to Article 22, are in fact identical to what they proposed at the time. I'm really surprised it's our reflection now. In fact, these are logical conclusions, which are also the result of specifics in some cases and make it easier to work. I would like to point out once again that the whole takeover legislation is based on equal treatment of all shareholders, and in particular the takeover legislation deals with small shareholders. This is a matter of transparency; it is an additional standard of information, especially for small shareholders. And what is more than a transparent process that ensures full information, than the abuse of any actors who want to take over society and, of course, management. I don't want to categorize taking over managers as bad. This can only be an option, so I don't know why we would complicate and prevent the acquisition of people who run the company. They must take over in a transparent way, they must take over in such a way that they do not abuse internal information or that all small shareholders are properly informed, and this standard is made by this law. Look, just walking to the solutions proposed by the Liberal Democracy, what lower standard, according to the proposed, is about connected people. You have considered a whole bunch of people in advance as acting unrelated, thus allowing them into future parking spaces, allowing these anomalies, which obviously benefit many people on your side, to happen also in advance. We went to an extremely high standard with respect to connected persons. Today, if this were true, what has been seen here, that we are not in favour of transparent and transparent legislation, then we would be excluded as exceptions, just as you did years ago, the SOD and the CAD. The SOD and the CAD are covered by this takeover legislation because it is our goal and our wish that the country also respects this legislation and that the country also does so transparently and naturally in accordance with the highest standards. In short, we completely and firmly reject these speculations, what is the key purpose. Again, I would like to point out that the exceptions defined in Article 22 which are the subject of this amendment and which are not the subject of this amendment, neither the MBOs nor the authorised companies, and so on, are, of course, beyond the provisions of this specific amendment. Therefore, once again, these exceptions, which are, of course, defined, are also present in other laws, other countries and, of course, do not constitute a circumvention of the legislation, nor do they constitute any interference with the rights of small shareholders. And something else about the NBOs, if they were so convinced that these provisions were consistent, they would probably be proposed once again in the amendment form. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] But you didn't do it because you probably realized that they're completely over, not only that they're over, but they're completely wrong. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u108	First of all, I would like to say that Mr Minister is deceiving, Mr Minister knows well that in the second reading, you have been a Member for a long time, it is not possible to submit amendments to the articles which are closed and you have closed these articles on the Committee, because of course you have not accepted, nor have you been prepared to accept an article that would prohibit explicit financial assistance to businesses. That's crucial, Mr. Secretary. We have proposed in the takeover law, which was rejected, the whole chapter on the acquisition of other companies, which, of course, introduces a superstandard, and we have also put this to the vote of the Committee on the Economy in the second reading. To your satisfaction, this super standard, which of course would regulate the MBO, which would regulate the management buyouts that would regulate the company of the authorising officer, was thrown out of the law and, of course, it is not possible, Mr Minister, you have been a Member for a long time, you have sat in these seats, in the second reading to table amendments. Since, of course, it is not superstandard, it is necessary to tighten the situation in Article 22 which may happen when companies that are not specifically regulated, of course, takeover legislation simply try to play in some way. Therefore, we believe that the takeover law, if you do not accept the amendment to Article 22, and because you have not adopted the financing ban, because you have not adopted a superstandard, is of course not a suitable law and will allow exactly what I have predicted. It will enable managers to take over, but, Mr Minister, in a non-transparent way, to the detriment of small shareholders, to the detriment of those in the companies of today's Commissioners, to the detriment of those who, of course, will combine such or other financial holding companies, will, of course, remain among that group of 25% shareholders who, of course, do not have anything to say to the assembly when pooling. This is the whole content of this amendment and, of course, I ask you nicely, you are deceiving here because you know well that in the second reading of these amendments, which we had in the takeover law that you rejected, the law that we have proposed cannot be re- tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u109	Thank you. You've reached out to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u110	I think that, given that you have already proposed to the committee a rather inconsistuous chapter on MBOs, you could say here also with the 22nd article that was opened, you proposed a whole new chapter of MBOs, of course the matter would be as unconsistent as it was then and it is businessly possible not to say that this is not possible, it is possible, but you have just realized your mistake and I am pleased with this knowledge. As far as financial assistance is concerned, you are extending these matters to this 22nd Article. Financial assistance to companies in these acquisitions is prohibited in the widest possible form, it already works on the company law and all the judicatures speak, are actually done and speak to them in favour. Financial assistance is prohibited, but it does not seem reasonable in every re-legislature to prohibit it. This is exactly what we're going to write in every law that stealing is forbidden because it's a crime. Therefore, it does not seem consistent to me to repeat the provisions of the Company Act, which are significantly broader in defining the prohibition of financial assistance to companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, I signed you up for the debate. I'll break up the duel. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u112	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Otherwise, it is not clear to me, Madam President, that you have taken my word before you gave it to me before the Minister spoke. Look, we will not support the proposed amendment in the New Slovenia Group. Above all, I find it completely illogical or I see no argument as to why, for example, point 6 of that first chapter would be excluded, as exceptions to the obligation to make takeover bids, particularly from the point of view, as a fellow Member, Mr Swickl explains that in terms of the protection of small shareholders. Dear colleague Cwickl, we were both present at the meeting of the mother's working body and I am surprised that a representative of small shareholders was present, and I know that he praised the proposed solutions several times when he got the word, he also commended this cooperation between the ministry and representatives of small shareholders in the drafting of this law. This was clearly said on his part on the parent's working body, so I'm a little surprised that now you're somehow interfering with your proposal where, in fact, small shareholders are satisfied. And once again, I don't see an argument next to that fourth or fifth point, which is completely illogical to eliminate point 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you. You want a replica? Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u114	A replica of Mr. Mikolitch. Look, Mr Mikolič, the Minister himself said that the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders had tabled this amendment and the Minister also said that they had not aligned themselves with this point but had not aligned themselves because they had not aligned themselves on that crucial issue of how other companies were being taken over. And because it was not regulated by a special chapter, the Minister, not by an amendment to Article 22, but by a special chapter that would regulate the acquisition of companies other than the stock exchange, we wanted to introduce companies other than public companies, and the superstandard is what needs to be added in the light of the general provisions of the company law. The Company Act prohibits loans and guarantees, but does not prohibit, I quote, "the conclusion of other business between a company and a person under this law who would have a similar effect", if you want a hidden contract, a supplier advance, a contract of buyers and so on, and this is the content here and, of course, we have proposed a superstandard, proposed a ban on the use of financial assistance and an auditor who, of course, will review these transactions. All of this was rejected by the government and the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Pike has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u116	Thank you. I cannot support this amendment myself because I would break the system of the existing law. I had previously listened to my colleague, Brickle, who says that if A and Company B unite, of course, they can unite if each company has a 75% majority in the congregation and remains a 25% minority, but this minority has already been in Company A or Company A and Company B, so this minority remains. Being a minority shareholder is not the most enjoyable thing because, of course, you do not have a majority in the congregation, but it is through this transparent communication with the care of a small shareholder at other levels that he is informed, especially informed, that what is happening to the shareholder society, that it is possible that he is not injured. Of course, I think that this law is well regulated, well regulated by the state that it can no longer be parked as it has been so far, and also managers' ransoms have been a problem in the past, and I wonder why not 12 years ago, when they found that some of them, after the old, now existing law, are exploiting managers' buyouts, are exploiting small shareholders, why they did not then introduce the novels of the law and prevent a lot of wild property, which, of course, has become legitimate over time, and certain people have come to large amounts of money on, I would say, a non-transparent way. I think that this law is a good obstacle to such an excess, so the law that is proposed would be broken if every amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy were adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr Hwauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u118	Mr. President, thank you very much. Well, the main fears that stem from the Liberal Democracy, as far as this law is concerned, and as they show through the amendments, are that they are concerned about small shareholders, that the government only verbally supports these small shareholders, and in fact does nothing. Therefore, if we want to discuss this amendment and even more broadly about the law, something will have to be said about these small shareholders first. In my opinion, we have two types of small shareholders: those who have some shares that have been acquired by privatisation during the transition, more or less or almost nothing, and other types of small shareholders who are still small shareholders in most cases, or not, who have come to enormous wealth through management buyout through wild privatisation. A small share in some, say, big company like Mercator could be worth a billion or two, by the way. And I'm afraid, or I'm almost certain, that this big concern for these small shareholders applies to this particular group of small shareholders that I just mentioned. And I can't accept this duality when the law allowed it for years, and some even went over the edge, and nothing happened to them. Today, however, it is trying in every way to protect some of the very controversial positions it has acquired - with the law being better than it was before, and it is also comparable and harmonised in Europe. That is why I see no reason for the proposed law to be amended, and that is why I do not intend to support this amendment to article 22, but, of course, I will support the law. And there's one more thing. At the time of the market economy in which we live, in an open Europe where capital flows are free, I see no problems concerning certain internal purchases, managers' purchases and, of course, acquisitions, if this is in a transparent, transparent manner and if this is regulated by the law as envisaged here, and if this is also strictly controlled by someone, which is also provided for by this law. That's why I think the law is good and must be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Look, this is what this is about - if you want to understand why we proposed an amendment to Article 22, fine, if not fine. But the point that we want to tell the ruling coalition is this. We have a specific ownership structure in which managers play a double role. This is not a classic structure where the owners of the company are like in Belgium - I will give a sample - small shareholders and this company is on the stock exchange and you have a hired workforce, but the majority of Slovenian companies have ownership structure, which is largely controlled by the companies of the authorised authorities, where the largest shareholders in these companies are authorised managers. Companies don't go to the stock exchange, so we have a little market capitalisation, they don't have to go to the stock exchange, but we have managers who have two tasks: one is optimising the result for all shareholders, and the other is - we're all bloody under the skin - optimizing the result for ourselves. With the law that you are offering, which will obviously be adopted, you will allow in most of these companies the most important task of managers will not be to optimize the value of the company for all shareholders, not to place the company on the stock market anymore, but in the structure as a company does not need to go to the stock market because they get capital, the money in banks will be their main intensification to maximize the value for themselves. And we have proposed a special chapter with more than ten articles, where we have identified what managers should do in such procedures, what is prohibited, what documentation must be presented, what the content of the report on the intended takeover, what the auditor must do, what the audit report should contain, how the offer for redemption should be given, and all this, Mr Minister, is superstandard in relation to the Belgian situation, in Belgium this is provided by the stock exchange and there is no manager hoping against the stock exchange to abuse internal information, in America this is "federal offence", people going to sit for 10, 20 years if they do so. In the European context, this is not a crime of five, ten years, but it is a crime, which mainly means within the framework of an individual, that I say to the management groups that these boys are not exactly managers. The situation in Slovenia is as it is. And that's what you're going to do. Managers will make sure that the majority of these companies are taken over by authorised companies, and they will also become managers through them, through this legislation, key owners of Slovenian companies. That's legitimate. We're just telling you who you're protecting and who we're writing the takeover law, for managers or for small shareholders. This law could also be appointed, Mr Minister, by the law on the promotion of managerial acquisitions and the law which will disenfranchise shareholders in Slovenian companies. Since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also stops the adoption of the law on legal [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] authorized investment companies, we have some 10,000, over 100,000 small shareholders to be harmed. [[...]] And Mr. Hwauc, that's what this is about. In Slovenian railways, for example, if managers invented a company with an authority, they could even do so, and if they had a transport minister who would allow them to do so, they could even do so for this so-called profitable part of Slovenian railways. And it would be perfectly legitimate. But that's how they're going to do it in, we're going to say, construction companies, trading companies and so on. Some acquisitions have occurred in Slovenia, such as BTC, because the idea was crucial there because the logistics centre made the shopping centre and I agree that the matter is borderline, but the Slovenian legislation did not contain this as a ban. If this BTC business were to be done under this takeover law, it would even be such a legitimate business that even individual victims could not even get to the court. Lawyers wouldn't have been able to write a complaint against the court on the basis of this law. That's the story here. That's the whole story. And we are just saying that the situation in the coming years under this law will be that ownership structure will change significantly in Slovenian companies and, as someone said in the debate on Mercator, Slovenian shareholders, Slovenian capitalists will control Slovenian policies, and I say already with this law Slovenian managers control the Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Hvauc responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u122	My friend Squeakle. I do not think that comparison with Slovenian railways was the most fortunate, because the ownership structure of Slovenian railways is governed by a special law and something such as this is not possible in theory. But there is one other thing that I think has been misquoted, namely, Comrade Squeakle, that the managers will take over most of them, and I say otherwise. The managers have already taken over most of them, the companies of the Commissioners have not invented this government, but we have known them for quite some time and most of the things that have happened have actually happened. And today to manipulate who else will take over, and so on, why do we have such a situation that some managers in companies have a majority and when this has happened. That would be very, very interesting to look at.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u123	Thank you. There's a debate going on. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u124	Thank you. The debate between individuals, Mr Hvauc, see what this is about. In Slovenia we decided, also on the basis of the original proposal of the Demos' government, the Demos' government. It's true there was a dispute between Jeffrey Sacks. [[?]] and to anyone else in order to carry out the property transformation in such a way as to make the so-called mass privatisation, and therefore, of course, the employees of companies and managers in particular were given the so-called certificates which they could have invested in the purchase of social capital in these companies. This was a legitimate decision, and I think it was even a good decision then, the consensus of Demos and I don't know who else in this national assembly, Mr Igor Umek, but a few other people wrote it. And that's the current situation. What you forget is that this takeover law is not intended for these managers to become either the majority or the majority or the 100 percent owners, but the purpose of this takeover law is to ensure that small shareholders do not have 75%, but have 25% in total, and there are some 10,000 in Petrol, we know that they have three, four, five biggest owners, 75% but Petrol is not even a problem, because public shareholders, unless the assembly decides to pull it out of the stock market, unless it decides to. In these companies, however, it is necessary to protect small shareholders and small shareholders must receive adequate compensation and they will not get this because they do not commit anyone in this law, nothing in this law of managers is binding on them to work together with auditors and thus continue to work with the protection of small shareholders, nothing. Those who are not a public stock company, those who are, in saying, "outside" the regulation of the securities market, will do so legitimately on the basis of this law, because of course it will be said that there is no prohibition and therefore we have said, in the amendment to the 22nd article that we are currently discussing, Mr President, that there should be a tightening of exceptions when a company, when a person who has reached the takeover threshold does not have to make a takeover offer and we say, is not obliged to make a takeover offer and we say, those who do so under certain indents and do not take into account the standard, must give a takeover threshold so that, of course, small shareholders can realize at least some of the certificates which they have submitted, because now the situation is about such as we know, those who have decided to stand before Lek, Krk and so on, and so on, that they have a certificate, those who have obviously have a minimum value, because they are now, because of course they are the companies that they are the company that they have a reasonable asset, which they are the euros, which they will now have a share, of course have some of course have the value, which they have the euro, which they will now, which they have, which they will now, which they have a share it. If you want to understand this, right, but if you don't want to understand this, fine too, but not to say that we have created the conditions by means of a change in ownership, which are now justified by managers at the expense of small shareholders, members or shareholders of an authorised company to take all the remaining value. We oppose this, so we have proposed a superstandard, it has been rejected, so we have proposed amendments and if they are rejected, of course, the political responsibility is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Hvauc responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u126	Comrade Squeakl, I would agree that the Demos government has set up a fair model of mass privatisation, it is right that what was somehow created together is evenly distributed. However, I do not agree with the fact that we all somehow had the same options, no, because of the internal information, because of the situation they had, they took advantage of it in the account of those small shareholders who now have or no longer have any worthless papers. One thing I really agree with, and I must stress this in particular, saying that in Slovenia some managers will take over or enter businesses and then rule in politics. One such beautiful example is showing up right now here in Ljubljana, one very successful manager who has successfully entered as owner, an important owner at least in the absolute amount of one large company, he now said, I am not going any more economy, I am not going any more business, I will go into politics and I will try to step into the biggest Slovenian city at the very top of power.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. There's no replica to the replica, Mr. Squeakle. I'll put you in the debate. Hold on a second.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u128	I would like to point out once again to the Member of Parliament, who will, of course, vote in favour of the debates we are hearing here today. I do not compare the text of the existing law in takeovers, which is valid and is old and also liberal democracy shares views that it has been exceeded, that it needs to be amended, no, I will focus on their proposal for a law which was tabled a few months ago in the parliamentary procedure and which was happily also rejected here. If we look at the standard of attitude towards the small shareholders of that proposal and this proposal, it has several times provided a higher standard, and I will say, in which cases, very concretely, in the case of connected persons and in the case of a fair assessment. See what is the interest of the small shareholder of Mr Hvauc [[?]] mentioned as the first, the one with some papers and, of course, his interest is for the first time to receive an offer at the time of acquisition and the second time that it is at a fair price, it is important for him to decide whether he will continue to be a shareholder, a small shareholder, or whether he will sell it and sell it as they will buy it, so, according to the right rules, this is the interest of the small shareholder of that inactive shareholder and this is guaranteed by this law. However, according to a proposal proposed by the LDS Members to this same Parliament and where, of course, they are building their policy towards small shareholders, it was the first time that they have not defined well-connected persons and fair prices, because under this law the fair price is the one that is purchased by either the acquirer or the person associated with it in the last year of securities. According to their proposal, however, the related person could buy significantly higher, the acquirer would offer a significantly lower price and that would be a fair price. This is said not to have been the fair price offered or the ransom price of the connected person, this has been overlooked because, of course, they have not defined or overlooked it, or whether it is a reflection of the policy, which is the reflection of the proponents to the small shareholders. The definition of connected persons, once again, made it possible, according to the proposal, for the first time, to be inconsistent with the directive was a large anomaly here, secondly, to allow for a number of activities of actually connected persons who, by law, would be unrelated persons and were ovulating a completely different standard here. Third. This law introduces an extremely high standard of information for workers and small shareholders, which was also not available under the LDS proposal. I can really understand this intervention by Mr Squeakle, as an intervention, because of the intervention itself, but the solutions proposed are completely contrary to what they have proposed and with some healthy logic. See, once again, two points that are deleted as exceptions, in fact in, say, the desire for a superstandard, are already the fruit of the takeover, it's called the intermediate two points, there's talk of the takeover, there's the takeover offer. Small shareholders got an offer, and you're deleting it as an exception. Why? I don't understand you. Just explain it to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u129	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u130	The Minister has a lot to explain. Above all, you must be explained, Mr Minister, the law that you have rejected, the takeover law proposed by our parliamentary group, has put in place a superstandard. This law doesn't introduce it, it's a super standard for manager takeovers, it doesn't even regulate it, it says it's regulated like everything else. That's the first one. Secondly, we have proposed a superstandard. This super-standard was rejected. And thirdly, what one member says about one of the former managers of one of the Slovenian companies. This Slovenian company is listed on the stock exchange. And this manager bought some stock for about 3,000 tolars, the value of that stock today is 38,000 tolars. If you were to make a takeover bid in the case of Lek, that would be over 60,000 tolars. This is the cause of the creation of property. Someone just took a mortgage on the house and bought shares when it was 3,000 tolars. Today these shares are worth 60,000 tolars. Just as it was with Lek, it started at 2,000 tolars, it ended at 101,000 tolars, something like that. The takeover premium is more than 82% over the exchange price at the time. But these are, of course, public equity companies and these are listed companies. This is what we are talking about today, and the amendment that we are proposing and the superstandard applies to non-market companies where there is no price created, where the price of a grey stock is often determined by individual such and different financial holding companies. Of course, for all these companies, a small shareholder does not have information. And it is true, as Mr Hwauc said, that there is an asymmetry of information. And we wanted to reduce this asymmetry of information with a superstandard. You don't want to do this, so we're saying that this isn't a takeover law, it's a law to encourage managers' acquisitions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Pike has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u132	We've talked about a small shareholder before. The bottom line is that a small shareholder is informed that he knows when to sell his stock and I think this law makes it possible. It is true that we do not have a tradition of sharing and that many realize this, that people do not even know what it is and so on. As far as managers' acquisitions are concerned, I have nothing against managers' capital if this capital is fair and why not take over a firm or a company, right if it's fair, but it's not right if it's done through a pass of a company or parking lot and so on. That's what makes this law impossible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u133	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u134	A respected fellow Member. See, for those reasons, we have proposed a specific article which states that the auditor or auditor must review the intentional and takeover report, draw up a written audit report and submit the audit report to the supervisory authority of the company of the issuer. A person may designate as an auditor only one who has not carried out an audit in the company of the issuer in the past three years and then the audit report must contain a mandatory set of additional information, including, for example, two important, confirm that the method of carrying out the transaction is not in conformity with the legal order in force and that the purchase is not financed by the company of the issuer. There are no such provisions in the law. These provisions have been deleted on the Committee on the Economy and the deletion of these provisions allows exactly what you said to make the pass of the company, the hidden contracts, the sum of the buyers, the advances of the suppliers, all of this will finance the management acquisitions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr Minister addressed the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u136	In fact, it is once again a response to these financial aids for businesses. Look, I have before me a law on companies with the only credible comments and, in fact, I strongly deny once again the possibility of financial assistance in doing so. It is clear that the provisions of Article 241 of the Company Act which speak in fact of the fact that the legal transaction whereby the company provides an advance or a loan for the acquisition of shares is null and void. It penalises such a legal transaction substantially deeper where the company provides an advance or a loan to acquire shares and after reading, what does that mean and when we also read the judicature that all credit transactions, guarantees in the broadest sense are what this first paragraph says, and this is prohibited, and the Member of Parliament is constantly citing and wishing to introduce into the once-for-all provisions of the takeover law that it will be prohibited twice. Let me read what the comment actually says. Therefore, the specific appearance of the legal transaction is in the widest possible form, such as a loan or a loan by the company and a third party, provided that it is secured by a company, an accepted exchange rate, a guarantee, a flag in any emerging form or other. Look at the rest of the documents, so please don't take advantage of the possibility of financial assistance. Financial assistance shall be prohibited under the Company Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u138	Mr. Secretary, you know, we're already at the lawyers' office. The key question that will be will be exactly what is the explanation of the law. And the Company Act does not explicitly state the conclusion of other transactions between society and the person, but only pre-surcharges and loans are recorded. And then we have a lot of interpretation, which is between advances and loans. That's why we proposed an amendment that would further verify that. And you will read the explanations of the company law, which - I apologize! - in an economic court or in a court of law, they will have no value.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u139	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 22? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 77 and the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of companies, a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ferri Horvat, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As you have seen, the marriage is very short, so the presentation of our report will also be brief. [[report received]] . The Legislative and Legal Service has delivered an opinion and, on the basis of this opinion, one amendment has been adopted, which is included in the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the report, and I propose that we adopt the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u141	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ferri Horvat will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u142	Thank you very much again. This presentation will also be brief. We will support the amendment and amendment of the law. We believe that it is high time for Slovenia to step up its activities to attract more foreign direct investment and to increase the internationalisation of companies. This proposed change is one step, but of course that is not enough. So I'd like to add a few words to that. The fact is that even after 15 years of independence in Europe and in the world, Slovenia is still not well known and recognised as an economic partner, as a destination for investment and tourism. In doing so, we have not been able to make sufficient use of Slovenia's international enforcement on the international political map and its inclusion in the Euro Atlantic link. This is not an eyewitness to this government, but I'm talking about an entire period of autonomy. With regard to the proposed novelism, we therefore believe that the government should consider what is possible and must be done in addition to this novel in order to promote the Slovenian economy more effectively abroad and to ensure that we are also in the economic field and better aware that there will be more investment and that there will be more tourists in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr Martin Mikolič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u144	Hello again. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support amendments and additions to the law on the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of enterprises. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a programme of representations of the Slovenian economy last year to promote foreign direct investment and internationalisation of enterprises, and an acceleration centre for small economies has been transformed into a public agency of the Republic of Slovenia for entrepreneurship and foreign investment. The existing law lays down the conditions under which the Agency may open its representation abroad. However, the proposed amendments also include the conditions for the closure of the Agency's representation abroad and lays down the legal basis for regulating the functioning of the Agency's offices abroad. The proposed amendment and amendment of the law shall follow the principle of transparency as the law aligns the procedure for opening and closing the Agency's representation abroad and establishes the legal basis for the organisation and functioning of the Agency's representations abroad. Therefore, the proposed amendments and amendments to the law will also be supported in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u146	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We are considering the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of enterprises in short-term terms. In a specific case, it is a minor change to the applicable law. It is only one article that is being amended and that is why Members of the amendment group will support the amendment. This amendment will also allow the opening or closing of the offices of agencies to promote foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of enterprises. However, the basis for opening or closing the office is an analysis of economic eligibility and, in our view, it is also appropriate. For these reasons, the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of enterprises.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Minister. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the promotion of foreign direct investment, the internationalisation of enterprises submitted by the government in the parliamentary procedure. In our parliamentary group, we are convinced that such proposed solutions, i.e. the opening or closure of a representative agency of the Republic of Slovenia for entrepreneurship for foreign investment, need a legal basis which allows and lays down rules for the operation and organisation of only these, we are aware that only the opening or closing of a foreign representation requires economic entitlement. We therefore believe that this will make it easier for businesses to carry out their activities at home and abroad. In the context of the operation of these representations, however, in the DeSUS Group of Members, we stress the need to promote direct investment on a permanent basis, while at the same time developing and improving the internationalisation of companies. The new law thus introduces a less difficult amendment to justify its purpose on the basis of economic results, i.e. the creation of new ones, provided for by the new Representations in Milan, Düsseldorf, Bucharest and Istanbul, or the abolition of existing foreign representations. In the DeSUS Group, there is a need for transparency in the implementation of the procedure for more efficient operation only. As we have already said in the introduction, we will support the DeSUS Members' complementary proposal of the mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u150	Thank you, President. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of amending and supplementing the law is to enable the establishment or closure of the Agency's representation abroad and to establish a legal basis for the organisation and functioning of the Agency's representations abroad. The proposed amendment and amendment of the law does not prejudice the fundamental principles of the law on the promotion of foreign, direct investment and the internationalisation of enterprises. When considering the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of enterprises, it is a less difficult change, due to the desire and need to establish representations of the Slovenian economy abroad, based on an analysis of economic eligibility. On this basis, we can also lock them down. It is very important that, through economic eligibility analysis, we identify positive effects and foresee concrete results from the operation of individual offices abroad to promote internationalisation and also to attract foreign direct investment. This content has led to and a condition for the establishment and closure of representations. In order to carry out these tasks, it is necessary to have a legal basis. With this amendment of the law, we create this real foundation. We therefore support the proposal of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr Milan Petek will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u152	Dear colleagues, colleagues, minister, president of the National Assembly! Like all other parliamentary groups in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we have no reservations about supporting the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of companies. The purpose of the amendment of the law is only to enable the Government to agree, on the basis of an analysis of economic eligibility, to open or close a representative agency of the Republic of Slovenia for entrepreneurship and foreign investment abroad. The LDS Club also agrees with the amendment adopted to Article 1a of the Act. However, when adopting these amendments, we would like to draw attention to the fact that there are no other possibilities for setting up representations of the Slovenian economy abroad. When the Government, with the assistance of the coalition’s voting machine and members of the SNS in the National Assembly, succeeded in adopting the Economic Chambers Act, it also achieved that future chambers of commerce, although representative because of their small membership and economic capital, would not be interested or able to establish their representations abroad. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that the representations set up by the economy alone, with the financial support of the country, would be more interested and motivated to do well and more effectively in achieving the desired results. We are also concerned that employees of such representations set up by the Agency will be staffed more by political than by professional references and that such representations will be more politically devoted and deserving than thanks for their political support rather than an ambitious, innovative place. Nevertheless, it is worth a try, we will monitor the work of such established representations and in time we will critically evaluate the results. The LDS Member Club will support the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u153	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Aviation Act, Summary Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was considered by the Transport Committee as the parent working body. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members! On 1 May 2004, when the Republic of Slovenia entered into the European Union, a series of European Union air regulations governing the same or similar matters as those currently covered by the applicable aviation law entered into force and applied. The key substantive areas required by the amendments to the Aviation Act are in particular civil aviation security, aviation security and air navigation services. In the New Slovenia Group, we estimate that the amendment of the aviation law is a good follower of the objectives of the law, and these are mainly the following; only three important figures will be added. Firstly, harmonisation of requirements and competences relating to aviation control bodies under the regulations of the Republic of Slovenia with requirements and competences under the rules of the European Union. Another time. Harmonisation of the provisions of the Aviation Act which speak of the protection of civil aviation with the rules of the European Union governing the protection of civil aviation with a particular focus on the protection of personal data. Third time. The rationalisation of the organisation of the aviation sector of the State Administration under the applicable rules is the Ministry of Transport, the Directorate for Aviation, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Civil Aviation, the Transport Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia and the Authority for the Investigation of Air Accidents and Incidents at the Ministry of Transport. In order to achieve the objectives set by the law, the solutions used include, inter alia, the appointment of the Civil Aviation Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Chief of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Civil Aviation and its employees are fully replaced by the indication of the Ministry of Transport and the authorisation of the staff of the Ministry of Transport and other authorised operators. The situation of citizens and legal persons of the European Union and the European Economic Area in aircraft registration procedures in Slovenia is addressed. The solutions required by the Council Directive on the duty of carriers to provide information on passengers are implemented. The provisions governing security issues are designed not to deal with issues governed by the rules of the European Union on the protection of civil aviation, but to deal in detail with matters relating to the protection of personal data relating to the verification of the past and the safety and verification of applicants for the authorisation of movement and retention at airports and competent authorities. This removes the fundamental uncertainties regarding the implementation of European Union rules governing civil aviation security. The New Slovenia Group will also support the amendments to Articles 23, 35 and 39, which specify those articles in terms of the implementation of the European Community regulations relating to the common European sky. We estimate that the law brings the necessary and good solutions, so we will also support it in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u156	Your Honor, once again a good-bye! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the Government's proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the aviation law. In our Group of Members, we believe that the novelty introduces key changes in aviation safety, in particular civil aviation security and the functioning of air navigation services. At the same time, it implements the European Directive on mandatory reporting of passenger data by carriers. The amendments also concern the correctness and effectiveness of the application of European rules and acts within the framework of administrative professional and inspection controls, where the Ministry of Transport becomes a single administrative authority for the aviation field. The amendments relate to the reduction of the costs for the operation of the competent aviation authorities with regard to the implementation of aviation regulation control and, last but not least, to the smoother and more transparent operation of the entire aviation system. In the DeSUS Group, we firmly believe that this novelty interferes mainly with the protection of the airport in terms of a stricter regime of movement and retention of both passengers and staff at the public airport, consistent compliance with the required criteria and conditions of conduct, the carrying of risky objects and the resolution of infringements with appropriate sanctions. In order to do so, it is necessary to provide adequate infrastructure, organisation of individual services and to define precisely the competences of those services. In our Group of Members, we estimate that the proposed novels contain a high level of professional complexity and set out the details by which they seek to ensure as much security and protection as possible. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that the competent ministry must fulfil its mission and enable the coordinated, reliable and cost-effective functioning of the entire aviation system in line with its objectives. Members of the DeSUS will support this amendment of the Aviation Act because we believe that such a proposal should be adopted as soon as possible because of the content of the proposal itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr Branko Marinič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u158	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the aviation law, which we are considering following a reduced procedure, will be supported in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, including the amendments to Articles 23, 35 and 39. The proposal for an aviation law eliminates discrepancies between the requirements and competences relating to aviation supervisory authorities under the regulations of the Republic of Slovenia, with the requirements and competences laid down in the rules of the European Union. It is also a matter of regulating the issue of personal data protection. The rationalisation of the organisation of the aviation sector will be better and the main actors will be: the Ministry of Transport, the Directorate for Aviation, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Civil Aviation, the Transport Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia and the Authority for the Investigation of Air Accidents and Incidents at the Ministry of Transport. Transparency of regulations and other legal acts shall be ensured for the parties to administrative proceedings. It is essential that the EU Council Directive 2004/82 on the duty of carriers to communicate passenger data is implemented. As it is said, in the SDS Group, we will also support the proposal for an amendment to Articles 23, 35 and 39 on amendments to aviation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Dr Marko Pavliha will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, welcome, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to start with this low pressure and full moon maybe in a funny way, because in aviation there's a joke that goes like this: "What's the difference between a pilot and a god? The answer is as follows. God doesn't think he's a pilot." And, of course, if we add to this a Slovenian proverb, which falls low for many years, we can find that this proverb is repeatedly and too pronounced in aviation. This is why it is so important for security, in order to prevent accidents, that aviation is integrated into a system of precise, precise rules that must not only be nationally coordinated but also to the greatest extent uniform in the EU and globally with international conventions. Slovenia has taken a major step forward at the beginning of this millennium, adopted two very important regulations, the first is the aviation law that we are amending today, and the second is the law on bond and real rights relations in aviation. It is two separate areas, one is more public-law issues and is based on the Chicago Convention of 44, with all changes, as well as on acyuis, and the other is more dedicated to the liability of the air carrier for the transport of passengers and also of cargo. Since the right and, last but not least, the airline is a living organism, it needs to be adapted over and over again to social change and in recent times we need to adapt it to European changes, including today's novelties. With this novel, which our parliamentary group will not oppose, but will certainly support all the amendments, it may be necessary to say only two dilemmas or two problems that arise. The first relates to the Civil Aviation Authority of the Republic of Slovenia and the second problem concerns the regulations of the law, and let me briefly tell you a little bit more about both. In February, the Government abolished the Civil Aviation Administration by a special regulation. And this is where the problem arose because it did not at the same time require the amendment of the aviation law to leave the substantive dilemma at this point, or actually to abolish such a body, which has acted independently and is known by many countries, or to continue the tradition of the distribution of powers between the Aviation Directorate, between the Transport Inspectorate and the Administration. Many experts believe that this scheme was inappropriate. I have asked the Minister a bit of a question which, I must say, he answered correctly and comprehensively, but we can only wish that this change would improve another problem or other dilemma that we would like to draw attention to. Indeed, the aviation law provides for the adoption of some 70 sub-legislative acts, most of which have not yet been adopted. I know from my own experience, and the Minister will probably tell me that one of the main reasons was the very weak recruitment in this area. But Mr Slana cannot do everything on his own, and of course not with a wider team. We therefore hope that this reorganisation will at the same time mean human resources reinforcement and lead Slovenia to receive as soon as possible, not the next amendment to the aviation law, but the necessary sub-legislative acts, which mostly relate to air safety, airport safety and all that is crucial to the normal functioning of this relatively young sector, have already been 100 years behind it, but still increasing. Practical data show that at least one serious aviation accident per week can be expected in the future. And if we can at least partially ease this up, it's our mission, it's our job. As we say, we will not oppose the law. Maybe some of us will even support him. In any case, we will support the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr Aurelio Juri will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u162	Colleagues and colleagues, nice day! Social Democrats understand and accept the formal intent of the amendment to the aviation law in order to improve administrative professional and inspection supervision of the implementation of EU rules and other legal acts, the cheap operation of the competent authorities for this purpose, and implement the Council Directive on the duty of carriers to communicate passenger data. We don't have any objection to that. However, the draft articles and the rejection on the Home Committee of the amendments proposed to improve the articles, which safeguarded the emancipated security regime, freedom of movement and protection of human rights, show that the government is taking advantage of the opportunity to make clear and dress at airports, whether by its own discretion or discretion, in terms of security, control and movement, which also allows for the possibility of abuse and arbitrariness of individual users of air services. The guarantee that this will not happen is not. The Rule of Law itself warns that the amendment follows not only EU rules, but also the amendment of a regulation on bodies in the composition of ministries, with which the government has literally rushed to abolish the Civil Aviation Administration as a body within the Ministry and to bring a number of administrative and professional tasks into the direct implementation of the ministry responsible for transport. The same will happen to the transport inspectorate, whose tasks will be to inspect the rules governing aviation taken away and committed to the Ministry. We are not saying that such an arrangement is completely wrong, but our legal experts in the house are calling for a re-examination of it from the point of view of compliance with the law on inspection, which provides that inspectors operate within inspections and only in inspectorates who have the status of an independent authority within the Ministry. The shortcuts have never been and never will be good, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So much less when left to politics and more political address than the government, there is no direct decision on the carrying and use of weapons and other dangerous items, on the conduct of personal checks and other forms of control, and on the limitation of movement. In premises and in areas such as public airports or aeroplanes in our case, and everyone who is there and who adheres to pre-known and verified regulations must enjoy all and all the generally guaranteed rights, including those or those that protect him from the will of the authorities. In short, since the amendment of the law, however, strengthens the area of freedom of movement and the protection of human rights, without even referring to a possible higher level of threat to the State due to, say, terrorism or our cooperation in managing the situation in Iraq and Afghanistan or elsewhere, our support will not be received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u163	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be conducted on the basis of the review of the amendments of 11 July 2006. I am putting to the debate Article 23 and the amendment of the DeSUS, NSI, SDS and SLS parliamentary groups. Who wants a word? Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. The Honourable President, the Honourable Minister and everyone else in the Chamber. Allow me to begin by apologizing to you for the delay in not reporting to my mother's working body, because I was on one of the committees on the intelligence committee, and I failed to arrive at a time when the national assembly was working faster today so that I could give a thorough report to the home working committee, the transport committee. If you allow me to stress at the same time, in connection with Article 23 and this amendment, that the law has been well prepared or that the law has been well prepared by the government, that we have adopted on the committee all those amendments that have in some way followed the opinion of the legislative and legal service, and that this amendment, which we also have today in all four groups, is also following this, some of the concerns of the legislative and legal service; and I think it is important that we support it. This amendment allows infrastructure development to develop slightly faster as soon as we adopt it, and I am sure that we will, given that we have also heard that the opposition does not oppose the adoption of this law. I would like to point out that infrastructure facilities, given that the Ministry and the Government are slowly preparing the financial year, would like to point out, as Chairman of the Transport Committee, that it would be good for both the Ministry of Transport and the Government to take a slightly different look at Slovenian aviation and infrastructure in Slovenia in this year's budget preparation for the next period. It is not a big deal, but it is a very important resource, which can have a very important impact on the development of aviation tourism and also on the aviation economy in Slovenia. It is important that aviation growth in Europe is cca. 11, 15%, depending on the airports, in Slovenia only 4%. However, if we go to look at the growth of aviation in the neighbouring country, for example at the nearest airport Zagreb or Pula, where the movement of passengers and goods at the airport has increased by 400 per cent, this means that it is also necessary for the Slovenian government, together with the Ministry, to follow this European trend and that, as far as it is in power, as regards the construction of infrastructure facilities at all three airports, both in Maribor and in Portorož and also in Ljubljana, it seeks to provide the most necessary funds. I must point out that last year and this year, investments in airport infrastructure were in the Maribor area and also probably in Ljubljana. However, in order to revive air transport and to increase year-to-year indexation, it would be necessary to provide some additional resources, so at this point I would ask the Minister and also the Government to try to explore all the options, if any, to encourage infrastructure for all three airports through the state budget. Personally, although I come from Stajerska, I would be very personally pleased to be equipped with electronic equipment also by the Portoro airport, which is in some ways also a segment or the basis of Slovenian tourism on the coast, and is also an indication of which gives a very important structure, infrastructure for the development of both Slovenian tourism and the economy on the coast itself. It would therefore be very important for this airport to also be technically equipped. I will support this amendment as well as our parliamentary group, as well as the amendment tabled by the coalition on Article 35 as well as Article 39, and I do not think there will be any major problems. And once again, I think it is imperative that we adopt this law as soon as possible and also bring it to life so that there will be no legal voids.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u165	Thank you. Someone else to Article 23. No, no, no. I conclude the debate and put to the debate Article 35 and the amendment of the DeSUS, NSI, SDS and SLS groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u166	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I will not talk as much about the content of this amendment as I point out that the legislative and legal service does not impose an assessment of the improvement of the regime with this amendment. I therefore conclude that the concerns that were still in place at the time of the examination on the home working body are still valid, and I recall this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u167	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u168	I would like to emphasise, as far as I am aware of this Article and the amendment, that the government will also prepare a thorough amendment to this law in the future and will also reach to this segment on the substantive side of which the fellow Member has had doubts. And I think there's a good chance that we'll get to the novel this year, the end of the year, or the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u170	I would ask the Government to define, in particular, the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, as well as the statements made by my colleague Kangler, which are intended to regulate this independence of the Inspectorate, however, as provided for in the Inspection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u171	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 39 and the amendment of the same parliamentary groups. Who wants a word? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Allow me because I couldn't come right away when this point started to take this opportunity and say the following. Today's debate, the general debate on the Transport Committee of the National Assembly, as well as the debate between ministers, has shown that this is a law of a highly technical nature and an area in which the powers of the European Union and the Republic of Slovenia are intertwined. From the point of view of competence, regulation and enforcement, this is also an extremely legal and professionally difficult area where the part of the activity which primarily provides for air safety and competition protection is regulated by the rules of the European Union, which is also largely governed by the procedures of the competent authorities, and partly by the conditions already to be met by the staff performing administrative tasks in these areas. By the end of this year, we are also expecting an amendment to the European regulation, which will also fully regulate the field of aviation operations. All of this, of course, affects the scope and content of aviation regulation by means of Slovenian regulations. In view of the fact that inspections were also carried out by the European Commission in the aviation field, the requirements of the European Union regulations had to be taken into account as much as possible in the preparation of amendments to the law. With regard to the issue, which has also been highlighted by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, I must say that, given the requirements of the European Union regulations governing security, security and the common European sky and the implementation of air transport activities, it was not possible to find more appropriate solutions to the requirements arising from the rules of the European Union. With regard to the management of administrative procedures or administrative and professional supervision, inspection and decision-making of complaints, it is proposed that solutions be designed to meet the requirements of the rules of the European Union and to enable them to be implemented, as well as the implementation of Slovenian rules. If I simplify, the rules of the European Union and the regulations of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to the other area must always be duly taken into account when dealing with each particular area of aviation. It may only be added that, in general, it is in the acts owed as the competent authority of a Member State and must appoint a competent authority to which it is responsible for issuing, renewing, amending, suspending or withdrawing authorisations and for controlling permanent airworthiness. This competent authority shall establish documented procedures and organisational structure, and we have also prepared this through these amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u173	Thank you, Minister of Transport. Christmas. Anybody else want some? Mr. Aurelio Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u174	Thank you. I understand the Minister's explanations, and it is also sometimes difficult to bring our internal arrangements in line with the rules of the European Union, but the legal and legislative service points to two things, including this new amendment. First, it is necessary to reconsider all arrangements in relation to the inspection law and also calls for a solution to be found within the administrative procedure law, particularly when it comes to the commission that will carry out these tasks. As we will now have, of course, we will be in conflict a little bit, and it can happen that such moments, while, as my colleague Paulich warned, we should have very precisely defined arrangements, also find ourselves in confusing situations. That is why I do not know, and I do not know how I will define myself to the individual amendments that are being tabled, because the solutions to which the legislative and legal service, which we have also called for with our amendments, which touch on other issues, have not been found. From this title, I'm afraid the marriage will be a little inconsistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u175	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE POLICE LAW - A SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members, good day again! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Police Act allows the Ministry to carry out the tasks of professional assistance in the exercise of the authority in its composition. This follows the objective of more efficient, professional, rational and coordinated operations, the provision of professional assistance in the field of human resources, information and telecommunications, financial and material business, international cooperation and public relations, both for the Ministry and for the police as a body in the composition. The draft law also allows data and notification of the performance of police duties in addition to the Director-General to be transmitted to the public by the Minister and the persons empowered by them. The proposed amendments will give the police a new mandate to carry out covert recording or dedicated control. The delegation of power is required because the Republic of Slovenia, as you know, is expected to become a legal member of the Schengen acquis outside the Schengen area in October 2007. The proposal sets out the purpose and conditions for the application of the proposed mandate of the police to allow both the introduction of data on persons or vehicles into the Schengen Information System or known SIS2 and the control of these persons and vehicles. The conditions for the call for this measure in the Republic of Slovenia are also laid down. On a written proposal from the police, it shall be authorised by a written order by the state prosecutor and shall be ordered by the Attorney-General or the Attorney-General for the most serious crimes. The action shall be directed against a person if there is a reasonable suspicion or reason to suspect that he or she is committing or is preparing offences or will also commit offences in the future, which are listed or determined by taxi. The proposal makes it possible to merge the criminal and criminal record into a new or uniform record, so-called criminal record. Next. It will also be possible to prohibit the approximation of a particular k or person by amending this law against persons who are duly suspected of having committed a crime with elements of violence, and not only against persons who are duly suspected of having committed an offence, as it is now regulated. The proposed amendment to the appeal procedure will prevent the automatic continuation of the Senate procedure if the complainant does not demonstrate by non-response the interest in participating in the appeal procedure or in the conciliation procedure. By decision of March this year, the Constitutional Court found that the first paragraph of Article 35 of the current Police Act, which lays down the conditions for ensuring the identity of a person in breach of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendment to this proposed law defines the legal conditions for identifying identity more precisely and more clearly, and takes into account the fact that the mandate is used for the purpose of preventive or repressive action of the police. The law is in line with the provisions of the Law on Public Servants, but the purpose of the provision remains the same, thus ensuring that the police are able to conclude working relationships without public publication or without public competition. So much for a little while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u177	Thank you to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u178	I'm just saying hello again. At its 23rd regular session, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on police. As usual, the Minister of the Interior provided an additional explanation and stressed that the proposed amendments and additions to the Police Act were followed by a rationalisation of business in this area, in particular in terms of the implementation of the tasks of professional assistance in the management of the Ministry and the police. In the field of the implementation of the technical assistance tasks, in particular with regard to the police as the body in the composition. The proposal also gives the Minister the opportunity to identify joint police tasks to be carried out by the Ministry for the police, ensuring the professional, efficient and rational performance of the tasks. In the introduction, the Minister also cited other amendments. The Committee was also represented by a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, who, in the light of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and the comments made to the individual articles, said that the amendments tabled followed the opinion of the Office and made comments to Articles 1, 2, 12, 21 and 23. Representatives of Amnesty International as well as a representative of the Peace Institute also participated in the meeting of the Committee. They gave their opinion, which they had previously written and tabled, so that the members of the Committee also received it before the meeting itself and in particular highlighted the amendments to Articles 28 and 35 of the current law. In the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled, the main focus was on the content of Article 1 under which the Ministry could carry out all or individual tasks of professional assistance for the head of the body in its composition, and Article 2 under which data and notices of performance are given by the Minister, the Director-General of Police and the persons empowered by the Ministry or the Director-General of Police for that purpose. He expressed his concerns in detail and, in the opinion of most members of the Committee, the relevant clarifications made by Minister Dragutin Mate and, inter alia, stressed that the heads of the body are directly subordinate to the Minister, which clearly defines the legislation. With regard to the comments that the law gave general powers for all tasks, which was also the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, in order to make this more precise, the Minister proposed to the Committee to supplement Article 1 of the bill in an appropriate manner in the sense that the Ministry could carry out all or individual tasks of professional assistance to the Head of the Authority in the management of personnel, financial and information and other resources for the body in its composition, irrespective of the provisions of the existing law. He also had this in mind, as the proposaler himself said, when preparing the novelty of the law. This addition also made it clear and defined the position of the legislative and legal service as well as the debaters. In the context of the discussion on individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted the amendments of the SD Group of Members to Articles 3 and 5, the amendments of the coalition groups to Articles 9 and 11, but did not adopt the amendments of the LDS Group of Members to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 5 and the SD Group of Members to those Articles. At the end, he also voted on all the articles of the law together and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u179	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Kangler will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on police refers to [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and the harmonisation of the law with other laws, the legal order of the European Union and in particular the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] Despite the reduced procedure, the amendment in question regulates an important and very sensitive issue in some areas. The law follows rationalisation in the field of the performance of ministry and police professional tasks. Provisions relating to rationalisation are always welcome, but should not affect the performance of specialised professional duties of the police. We believe that the distinction between these tasks is sufficiently clear and that due to rationalisation in the field of specialised tasks there will be no problem. It is also important to regulate the legal basis for the implementation of the measures provided for in Article 19 of the Schengen Convention on the Implementation of Data on Persons and Vehicles with Possible Crimes. The law lays down a number of logical provisions relating to measures to prohibit the approximation of a particular person on the ground or a specific area. This measure will also be able to be applied in the event of a reasonable suspicion of a criminal service with elements of violence. Such a solution is necessary, since the application of this measure is unfounded only in the case of infringements under the current regime, but not for violent crimes. Of course, there have also been a lot of concerns about Article 5 of the Act, which defines when a policeman can identify a person. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the article is clearly written enough to be effective, legally and, above all, the thorough work of police officers, and I stress, above all legally. There have also been some concerns with regard to Article 9, but I think, given the implementation of the Schengen Borders Agreement, it is normal for all European countries to register and require other Member States of the European Union to report information on those persons and vehicles transiting through a Member State of the European Union or to retain a person in the territory of that country who could reasonably be suspected of serious crimes, in particular crimes of international terrorism. We will therefore support these changes in the parliamentary group following a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose amendments to and additions to the Police Act. This is the implementation of Article 99 of the Convention on the implementation of the Schengen Agreement. It is also a matter of some increased powers for police officers, which in essence, as long as they are dealt with in the framework or will be carried out under existing legislation, is not so bad in our opinion. The only question that we are asked to consider this law or review is the extension of powers to the Ministry, in relation to Article 1 of the Act, which provides that the Ministry may carry out all or individual tasks of professional assistance to the Head of the Authority in its composition in the performance of the resources for the body in its composition. Does this mean that, in fact, at some stage, the powers of the Director-General of Police in the field of personnel, finance and material resources are also taken over? I would be very happy to have an answer to this question if we received an answer before making the decision. As with the Owl Act, which we have dealt with in this National Assembly at its previous meeting, there is also one of the reasons given here - terrorists. In implementing the Schengen border, given that it has been proven that for several terrorist attacks in Europe, weapons came mainly from the south of the former common country, it seems right for me to increase the powers of police officers to deal with the Schengen border. Even when we discussed the state border law at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, we have already mentioned that the three interstate crossings, when we are talking about the Schengen border, on the side with Croatia, could be completely sufficient, and the possibility of implementing this law, which we are considering today, would be even easier and related to even lower costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The view of the Chamber tells us that either this law is not too interesting, or we have such a bad organisation of work in Parliament that the parliamentarians are now at some other meeting, that they are not able to attend the one that should be the primary. But anyway, the government has drawn up a proposal for a law, and it has suggested that we support and adopt it in a short process. It is noted that this will happen, but it has also been noted that some efforts have been made to improve some provisions. It is likely that the legislative and legal service has had a number of comments in its opinion, which were mostly not taken into account. However, some of what they proposed from social democracy was taken into account. It may be unfortunate that no longer or all of the comments of the LDS Group were rejected, since they were not all so bad that they should be rejected, at least the opinion of the DeSUS Group is such. The common denominator of all these provisions and comments directs us to think that there are some questions about other legislation, in particular those relating to State administration, and that this is a questionable matter, let us say, by violating the autonomy and interference of the body in the composition or the police in question. We support this bill because its ambitions are to increase expertise, to increase efficiency. Its ambitions are also to eliminate possible duality in decision-making and at work. All of this, however, should contribute to a provision that also speaks of professional assistance and the ministry in the use of the police. The amendments we're going to talk about today point to a moment, and I think it's also a good idea to stop by them. This is because some of the provisions are so generalised. For example, in Article 1, the one that says that any other aid listed can be taken into account, and under the other, which is not defined, we may be able to bring anything together, but we also find it acceptable to consider those comments to Article 5, which say that it is necessary to state that a similar person should be identified, so that this dictatorship is replaced by a dictatorship which speaks of a person who, if we want to identify him, must be such as to be appropriate to the entry. We cannot simply ignore the individual’s individual view of the likeness of an individual if he is a police officer. There are some other things that are trying to define more precisely, and we would be willing to support these improvements. We are afraid, however, that all amendments will be rejected and overturned, and we do not support the amendment to Article 3, but that the law is nevertheless well prepared enough to receive our support and vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A nice welcome to the representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Police Act, in particular from two important sets of amendments and additions to the existing law, which is introduced into our legal order Article 99 of the Schengen Convention, which is an outstanding obligation of the Republic of Slovenia. Secondly, what we particularly support in the Group of Members is that a more rational and flexible organisation of work is also being introduced at the Ministry of the Interior. Since Slovenia will become a beneficiary of the Schengen Information System of the new generation in 2007, appropriate legal bases must be adopted for the implementation of the measures provided for in Article 99 of the Schengen Convention, and this proposal also introduces the law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support changes and additions to make police work more efficient and rational. The Minister is thus given the opportunity to establish joint tasks in the field of police and ministry which the Ministry will carry out for the police. We are confident that this will achieve the professional, more efficient, rational and coordinated implementation of common tasks. Human resources surpluses will thus be redistributed to other scarce operational works. We also consider it complementary that the data and notices on the execution of police work are also given to the public by the Minister, who is the first to be responsible for the state and work of the Ministry and thus the police. This certainly does not mean that it also has the power to interfere with the professional procedures of the police and thus to restrict the autonomy of the police at all. However, from the point of view of rationalisation, it is necessary to stress the consolidation of the current two records into a single criminal record. In particular, changes in complaints procedures with a view to the prompt and effective resolution of complaints. With regard to human resources flexibility, we also support the complementary provision that the police have the opportunity, because of their nature of work and tasks, to conclude working relationships without publication and without public competition in certain segments of work. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are aware that this law is one of the so-called repressive laws that indirectly interfere with human rights. On the other hand, we urgently need it, because the police must ensure as much security as possible and public order and peace. Therefore, we must pay particular attention that these provisions of the law are as clear and clear as possible and that they are as specific as possible to the functioning of the police, although we cannot avoid that there is still no subjective factor. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the proposal for a law is good, that the adoption of amendments to the labour law is still improved and that there may still be provisions to be adopted or improved at the meeting of the National Assembly and that we support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u187	Thank you. Ms Lovtijar Bebler will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Therefore, the LDS Group will not support this proposal. We still believe that the Ministry of the Interior is becoming a police ministry. The Ministry may carry out all or individual professional assistance tasks for the head of the body in its composition in the performance of the resources for the body in its composition, irrespective of the provisions of this Act, as one of the introductory provisions states. We have previously seen the Minister's involvement in police personnel, which he does not recognise, but with this change confirms our claims, as it takes away or violates the powers of the Police Director in the field of personnel, finance, material resources, information technology and so on. The Director of Police loses his independence in the use of essential tools for police management. So far, data and reports have been made available to the public by the Director-General of the Police or by an authorised worker. After this change, the Minister or the person empowered by the Minister will also be able to provide this information. We are firmly opposed to that, too. A change in the law of the police with the aim of legalising political control by the Minister and the Ministry of the Interior over personnel, finance and so on is a major step back in the police area in the area of security and home affairs. The political control of the Minister or the Ministry of the Interior over the police is a violation of the rules on the professional autonomy of the police and political interference with police, management and operational tasks and work. The delegation of power to the Minister and the Ministry of Police Labour Reporting is to put the policy on the police, or rather to say the promotion of a policy in the person of a minister with police powers over other police officers acting within the police force. The Minister of the Interior is not a police commander as a professional organisation, so he has no right to interfere with her operational work and to interfere with internal police personnel procedures. We also propose amendments and additions to Articles 5 and 6; it is a matter of identifying at the police station and carrying out covert recording or dedicated control. Following this proposal, a policeman may take the person whose identity cannot be identified at the scene to a police station where he can identify with computer, fingerprints and so on. However, it is not clear from the provision when an identity can be performed at a police station or when the assumptions referred to in Article 35(1) are met or any general functioning of the police. We also believe that, in order to allow for the identification of a person, it is necessary to suspect that a person will commit, execute, commit or commit an offence or a crime. The situation set out in the 7th indent is excessive and to an excessive extent constitutes an opportunity for repressive authorities to intervene in the individual's right to privacy, since, according to the proposal of the 7th indent, every person in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia may be given grounds for determining identity. Everyone knows something. However, the applicant did not record any useful information and the management of whose official tasks this relates. That's why we're proposing a deletion. Identifying identity only because the person described is similar to the person sought, gives repressive authorities too much opportunity to refer to error. In the LDS, we believe that the person for whom the officer identifies the identity must match the description of the requested person, so we propose to amend this indent. The introduction to the police premises for the purposes of the identification procedure shall be permitted only in cases where the identification of those persons listed in the first paragraph of Article is concerned, and we propose that this second paragraph be supplemented. With regard to the conciliation procedure, however, we believe that failure to participate in interviews with the head of the police's organisational unit should be worked out in terms of the manner of the invitation, the nature of the appeal case and the possible later participation of the complainants. The reason for non-participation in conciliation procedures with the head of the police's organisational unit, where the police officer against whom the complaint was lodged, may also be fear of a policeman and bullying at the police station itself. For all these reasons, the LDS would not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everyone. The treatment of rules governing powers, the position of the police is always extremely sensitive and it is very possible to be caught in a way of thinking that is sometimes present with coalition Members, that every warning and every thought that any proposed solution should be weighed, whether it should not be too much of an interference with human rights, or not give too wide a mandate means not to understand the country, its importance, its safety, its independence, its proper attitude towards its neighbours and so on and vice versa. Every fear that the opposition sometimes sees, and believes that the proposed changes are written not with the desire to regulate things, but with the desire to gain greater powers and then to abuse them, is not always justified. I would therefore like to say on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group that part of the proposed amendments and the amendment of the law are necessary and necessary. It is necessary and necessary in the part where the current solutions are coordinated with the provision of the Constitutional Court, which has found that the powers the police have to receive and other measures of their own are unclear and do not allow sufficient protection of constitutional rights. In this direction, the proposaler has made an effort to try and try cases where the conditions under which identification is justified are described, we are not fully satisfied with these solutions. We have given some additional supplements, but unfortunately they have not been fully adopted in the course of the procedure. Second. It is necessary to rethink the obligations that the application of the Schengen border and relations with other police has given us. It is understandable that our police also have a duty when it is true, but there is reason to suspect that this is a repetition of the potential perpetrator of the crime, that it is to be entered into the Schengen record, which then means that all countries of the European Union are being monitored for his conduct and that all police are paying attention to whether he comes into the country or sometimes not to be allowed to come and so on. We have also given some warnings in this part that perhaps the definitions, when possible, are too broad, are given in general, and unfortunately the applicant has not accepted them. In two parts, however, we were explicitly dissatisfied with the proposal that the applicant came with because we feel that we do not need it at all. The first is the proposal for a modified relationship between the Ministry and the police. We are convinced that the current law governs these relations better, more appropriately, respects the independence, independence, the high expertise of the police and does not make the police dependent on political beliefs or political assessments and suggestions made by the competent minister. Unfortunately, the comments we have made, the amendments we have put in this direction have not been understood by the government and the ministry, although we have also been supported in our views by the legislative and legal service, which has pointed out the inadmissibility and ambiguity of the solutions proposed. The second was the question of the public powers that the Minister has or does not have with regard to public representation on police conduct. In the proposal for amendments and additions, the Minister acquired or granted the right to judge when it would be the case for specific operational matters, not the functioning of the police in general, but to report on specific operational matters to the public when he would allow the Director-General of the Police Administration to do so, but when he would appoint any official to do so instead. This is also unnecessary politicisation and interference with the work of the police, and unfortunately we were not understood in this work either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u191	Thank you. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u192	Thank you very much. The Police Act, as has already been said today, is necessary to amend, on the one hand, in order to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and, in particular, some other appropriate solutions. It simplifies the organisation of the ministry and bodies in its composition, and in particular brings about a certain rationalisation of the organisation of the ministry, which we think makes sense. However, it is reasonable and appropriate for us to think that the Minister will also be able to provide information to the public on police matters, in addition to the other authorised persons provided for by the law. A more precise definition is needed - as we all know, there are well-known cases from the public where, due to the inadequate diversion of information to the public in certain specific cases of criminal detection, this has only prevented or made it difficult, not only to detect, but also to prosecute. That's why we think these changes are appropriate. It seems appropriate to us that an appeal against the work of the police may be concluded if the complainant does not respond to the discussion, of course if he does not respond to the discussion unjustifiably. However, here we call for each complaint to be dealt with thoroughly and with as much sensitivity as is necessary. We also support the amendments that provide for amendments to the measure banning the approximation of certain persons. This will allow the police to define a measure for a person who has been duly suspected of having committed an offence, of course under legal conditions. More precisely, the definition of determining the identity of persons who, by their conduct, raise suspicion that they will commit a crime, with the law stipulating that they must be objective criteria, such as retention at a particular place and subjective condition. It's a look filled in cumulatively. Due to these and other planned changes and additions we will support the law in Novi Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u193	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be conducted on the basis of the review of the amendments of 11 July 2006. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members and the substantively equal amendment of the Social Democrats Group of Members. Who wants a word? Here you go, Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. This amendment is not appropriate, for in explanation it refers to some fears that are not actually there. It is only necessary to read what is said in Article 1, and what it says does not mean what the proponents put in the explanatory statement as a reason for the article to be deleted. In fact, this article states: The Ministry may carry out all or individual tasks of professional assistance for the Head of the Authority in the composition of the management of resources for the body in the composition, irrespective of the provisions of this Act. The fact is that the Minister is also responsible for the work of the police as a body in the composition, and if in this sense he can offer individual tasks of professional assistance in order to make the matter more rational and to make it work better, then this is just something that is positive, which is an added value to the functioning of the ministry and also to the functioning of the body in the composition. There can be no speech here, however, because there are two different kinds of things. One is to help with individual professional assistance so that the body can function more rationally, more effectively. Secondly, it is the responsibility of the Chief of Staff, in particular the Chief of Police. It's something else. So if we read what Article 1 says, and if we understood it as it says, then this amendment would certainly not be tabled by the applicants, so the amendment is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u195	Thank you. Anybody else want some? Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u196	I've predicted it, and I don't think the best way to do it is to do it. If it were, then it wouldn't be the legal and regulatory services that would round up first. If it were so non-problem, then, of course, there would not be an amendment on the parent’s working body. I think that there is still some weakness in this provision, especially because I think it is too general and all. With regard to the generality, it can be very easy to justify simply stating what is written here, after some things are listed in taxis, add "and other sources". These other sources can be of any kind and any kind, because there is no limit; therefore, this is general and this generality also allows for all the scope, that is, whatever we can get under this syntagma of "other sources". That is why we have also proposed that further consideration be given to this matter. It may not be necessary to delete this Article, but it is likely that this article will be improved if it is necessary to cooperate with the police in order to indicate this in such a way as to really know what limits can be considered to be the assistance of the Ministry of Police.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u198	So, I will not support the amendment to Article 1 of the bill, because I am convinced that doubling certain services in the Ministry and the police is irrational because they deal with the same matters in the police and the ministry. Such duplication results in a waste of valuable time in solving problems, less transparent business, non-productive rivalry between related services and, last but not least, less efficient ministry-police operations. It is essential to combine services where possible, particularly in the field of personnel, logistical, information support, finance and international cooperation. In view of the proposed amendment, it is clear that the aim is the rational and transparent functioning of the ministry and the police, which, of course, will be for the benefit of all Slovenes and Slovenians.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u199	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I did not intend to make any calls, but I would like to stress the debate that is currently under way. See, already Article 2 of the Act, which is amended by this Article 1 to add another paragraph, gives a very precise picture of the relationship between the Ministry and the police, and very much reflects the Ministry's responsibilities and tasks in relation to the police. Therefore, it is not clear what it was necessary to add to all these points, which are very precise, another provision which states that the Ministry can carry out all or individual tasks of professional assistance to the head of the body in its composition in the performance of the resources. Why is this additional article, or paragraph, needed in the background? Why does the ministry or government feel that Article 2 does not correspond? Therefore, it is not possible to interpret this in any other way than to further increase the powers and supervision of the Ministry itself in relation to the police. Otherwise, you can't explain it to yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u201	Thank you. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u202	Thank you very much. I would support the amendment tabled by the LDS House of Members to Article 1. The fact is that the current solution adopted in the second reading on the committee - the police, which is the body in the composition, therefore has a certain autonomy and autonomy in operation. This autonomy and autonomy, based on the law, on the rules and regulations applicable to police officers and even to police organisations, actually limits this autonomy. In fact, in the manner formulated in the present Article 1 in this proposal, it actually allows for the direct involvement of ministers or the political summit of the police in the work of the police. In this regard, as has already been said, these relations in the current law have been defined, and in my opinion there is no need for any additional provision for the Ministry to assume certain tasks of professional assistance, especially when it lists personnel, financial, information and other resources for the body in its composition. If you mention these sources, as you mentioned them, then in fact this autonomy is broken and in fact the Minister or the political summit of the police, anyone from the Ministry of the Interior can interfere with everyday work. I would like to point out that all the defence ministers so far have always argued that they want a different system, a different kind of relationship between the police and the Ministry of the Interior. To defend all defence ministers, from the first, from 1990 on, the idea of gradually separating and distinguishing between the ministry and the police as independent, on the law and regulations of acting professional bodies in the field of protection of order, crime and all that the police are doing. I'm not saying everyone was successful. They were more or less successful, sometimes words were different from actions, and we can find out a lot of this, but this tendency to do so all the time, and today, on the basis of the debate on the committee itself, it has also proved that this trend has turned out; that the current government and the current minister have turned this trend and, in fact, in some ways, advocates this greater interference with the political summit, the ministry of politics in the functioning of this organisation, that is, the police organisation. And, of course, I must realise that this trend does not surprise me, this change does not surprise me, and is fully in line with some of the trends that we have already identified and identified in the judiciary, in public servants, in public order and in peace, in the media, in radio broadcasting and so on. Gradually, step by step, we are invisibly moving away from some fundamental values, which are a liberal and democratic order, not a party as such, but a liberal and democratic order based on all modern democracies, at least Western European and Atlantic. These values are divergent and no longer distinguish between professionalism and professionalism on the one hand and political governance and governance on the other. But that's, as it were, the trend of this government. And by inviting you to accept the LDS amendment, which says that this article should be deleted, because this is well arranged enough, I have no illusions that you will support and accept this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u203	Thank you. Mr Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u204	Thank you very much. If this were true of what a fellow Member has just said, that the impact of politics on police work and the political influence of the minister on police work would not be right. But what you are saying does not appear in this article that you want to delete. So you're talking about something that's not what you're just imagining that could be. It's so hard to discuss. If you have any specific information on what happened, then say it. But if you are saying that something will happen on the basis of this article, which does not talk about it, then I think this debate is too much. The same was discussed by a colleague in the opening presentation when she said that it was also Article 2 that the Minister himself would present the operational plans of the police to the public and so on. In this case, however, you must also look at what is said in this article. This does not say in this Article either. The Minister, as responsible for the work of the Ministry, including the police, is responsible and responsible for informing the public of the extent of the police work he is responsible for. However, the operational plans are under the responsibility of the Police Director and his subordinates, who will report on this. And you say, you explain something that doesn't say, and you want to delete something that doesn't speak of what you say it says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u205	Thank you. Replica has Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u206	Thank you very much. I don't know if it's a replica or a debate. If you said a replica, it would be a replica. In fact, Comrade Kovacic, this statement was in some way, as they say in psychoanalysis, a confession through denial - if you don't want to see it, you won't see it. And this recognition has happened by mentioning this second article, which is not the subject of debate, by the way, at least not the amendment, but because you have already included it in this – here is exactly what we are most afraid of: mixing functions, powers that can be exercised by both the minister and the chief of police. It can't be that! And this is the problem that we see in this and the related articles. And a typical case because you said I should give an example - because I will, why not. For example, when the minister ordered a specific officer at the police station to give the information specifically to a specific journalist. This is a case that shouldn't have happened. I'm not saying that this information should not have come out; on the contrary, it was important and should have come out to all the media and to all the public, it is so important, but not in this way, I would have said, a conductive way. That bothers me, and I even wrote about it. It is therefore the fact that the Minister is responsible for the work of the Ministry, and the fact is that he is also responsible for the work of the police within it, and the fact is that he has certain powers, which are already governed by the law and, after all, the Government has this right to clearly replace the leading officer in the police if he considers him incompatible, professionally, politically, whatever. And that's what happened with the ministry or the government policy, that's what happened. And they also stressed on the committee how important it is that the minister and the chief of police are caught thinking the same way, that they are coordinated. I have to say, I have nothing against it, but I am even more pleased when the chief of police and the minister are not completely caught, then I sleep more peacefully than when they are fully caught and well and co-operated and cooperated in all possible ways. In short, this second article, which is not the subject of debate, is proof of what we have been trying to prove.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u207	Mr Ljublješek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I did not expect any particular debate at this point, given that there was a very long and concrete debate already on the working body, but the debate is repeated. I have already said to our Group that we welcome the proposal for a law, precisely from this work, that a set of amendments and additions, which we consider to be some rationalisation of work, more efficient work, more flexible work in the ministry and thus, clearly, in the police department. I may see these organisational changes in public administration, the government may look at them with the eyes of the economist, because I come from 40 years of work in the economy, because at any moment we have been looking at where a matter can work more effectively, to rationalise, to make it more flexible. And I always welcome in this national assembly every addition that goes in this direction. My feeling and my experience of one and a half years' work in Parliament is that it is extremely difficult to change anything in this state administration, whatever the meaning of the organisation, more efficient work, motivation, flexibility. It just can't be changed, everything starts to be seen with political eyes. And this first article, which speaks, speaks of the Ministry being able to carry out - not to carry out; it is said to be a matter of judgment, a matter of agreement between the Minister and between the police, what is possible to combine in support services, to do them together, not that each has his own job. It's irrational, and it can't be defended, and I'm surprised at the colleagues who are defending this matter. The matter is very normal, very appropriate, only to be carried out in practice, without just being left on paper. That's what I'm looking at, and I'm going to ask in time what happened in this area. In explaining to the Social Democrats that the Ministry is already setting development, organisational, human resources and other basic guidelines. Directions! This is not execution, one is guidance, the other is work, execution, organisation and then execution. That's two different things. And it is in this context that I see that it can actually become more effective in the ministry and in this context also the police, more effectively, by stressing several times that the Minister does not have the power to interfere with the professional work of the police, which is another matter. One is when we speak here in the management of human resources, financial, information and other resources, we know which support services are still available, we do not need to list them, because the whole package is ahead, and the other is the professional work of the police, and the minister is not interfering there. And I must say that even such a well-intentioned complement or change made by the government, the opposition's colleagues are looking with negative eyes, indeed with negative eyes. I haven't experienced one of those additions saying, "That's really good, and it's worth bringing in." Everything's negative, everything's suspicious, and what's behind it, what's going to happen now, who's going to do it now, and now something's going to change. That's the thing. And all the time, I have this feeling that my colleagues in LDS are having, I'd say, some pattern of their actions and they're afraid that the current government is going to do what they've been doing. That's my feeling, I've said it many times, and I'll say it again. And I would ask that you look at well-intentioned and good solutions and additions from a positive perspective and also support them once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u209	Thank you. Gantar, you wanted a replica? Then I'd like to ask you to be among the discussers. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. My colleagues from the predecessors probably talked about some synergies, economies of scale and such matters. I see only two additional verbs here that are based on this effectiveness, which is supposed to follow from the other provisions of Article 2, which are probably essential, but why in an organisation such as the Ministry of the Interior, which has the bodies in its composition, some services or some infrastructure should not be such as to provide services to several bodies of such organisations. Mr Gantar probably understands this as the former Minister for the Information Society. But I just don't understand this psychoanalytical dispersion and the search for reasons by inventing fears. We are talking about the fact that, because of the economy, we are supposed to do some things together in this joint organisation of the Ministry of the Interior, even more for the sake of efficiency. Our entire public administration is kind of looking for synergies. Joint action, integration of databases, etc., exchange of personnel, mutual information, that is all, but this is what I can only explain to myself by having problems with my bureaucrats and officials and with those who immediately see fears in any such good moves of joint organisation. This line is likely to try to protect against these bureaucrats and to enable them to function in a completely normal manner. This whole state administration actually needs some kind of merger, but not in terms of centralisation, not at all, because all of these functions, responsibilities and responsibilities that each office, ministry or bodies in its composition, Directorates, etc. are, in a substantive sense, responsible, in what I say, infrastructure must be linked to the mutual efficiency of the entire state administration. In this sense, it's just one small step on this path, I don't see any problems with autonomy here. But it is true, gentlemen, that all data, tasks or personnel, or I don't know what is meant here, is actually what benefits everyone and should in some way be integrated. Of course, responsibilities are shared, but things are combined due to efficiency, lower costs, better work, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u211	Thank you. Mr Hwauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u212	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with my colleague Gantar that the Minister, the Ministry, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also responsible or responsible for the work of the police, which of course does not mean that they have an impact on operational work, but on everything else that belongs here. But in addition, the government and the minister are also responsible for the fact that taxpayer money is being used rationally, that services supporting the work of these various bodies operate effectively, rationally, in short, to use as little resources as possible to make this country as cost-effective as possible for systems to function as we want. And if we look at it from this point of view, then we can't agree to any logic that the police are one box that has a spike above, into which we just throw tolls from the state budget, without wondering how they operate with financial resources, how they use infrastructure, or otherwise, information or other. It just can't be like that. And if there's a chance that we can rationalize these functions by associating them, connecting them with other systems, then I don't see why we wouldn't do that. If we achieve equal efficiency and operational and professional independence in a significantly cheaper way. Nor do I see any reason why, as far as human resources, financial, information and other resources are concerned, the police are still a country in the country, as they once were. Therefore, I cannot support this amendment in any way. I would even go in the other direction to apply a similar approach to rationalisation, as far as better organisation is concerned, in other areas. I think there are plenty of reserves here, and I think the taxpayers will be very grateful if we take more of these steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u213	Thank you. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u214	Thank you very much. First of all, the distinction between the police as the body in the composition and its tasks and the Ministry. What the government has been or has been, however, been based on some assumption that there is a division: between what is called "policy formation" and what is then called "policy implementation" or "policy making policy implementation" - whatever you want. If we are talking about the police, then the National Assembly and the government are co-forming policies, they are proposing laws, strategies, we accept that and so on, but the implementation of this is in the hands of the police, of course, in the area of the powers of the police. And all professional views go in the direction that these two levels must be, of course, not separate, but distinct, and that they must have clear competences and competences, and that those who are such bodies must have at least some relative autonomy in the management of resources, information, personnel and others, including financial limits, in order to carry out their task. And now it's broken, and I don't know why it's broken, because it's already settled in the current law. Of course, the single information system is regulated already in the current law and article which can be cited by my colleague Dara - I do not have the law here - but not only in the police, in the broader context, and cannot have a regular employee entering the level of the information system where they hide and store data that are personal data, sensitive and so on and so on. It is clear that no one is discussing this, I think not even the current government. This disturbs us and we look for motives for why this is happening, and we find that this is happening in the context of other events that have already taken place or are happening. We are different here and that is why there is also a position and opposition and that is why there are several parties, so there are different parties. And I say unto you, What ye do, I, or him, and to whom I belong, they would never do, because it is contrary to what we think. Now, moaning over the LDS, how impossible it is, how he sees some fears everywhere and so on - about this I have already explained several times, I will not be here before the public and in the national assembly, but that then the fears that he does not have can sing you in the end. But the other story is, don't address us as we are, think about the arguments that are yours, don't talk about why we are like that, try to show where your arguments are that you're supposed to stand. And around the officials who need to be rationalized. I myself have experience, believe that he has experience with the office, from 1994 to today, and public administration from 1994 to today [[...]] [[Cell phone ringing.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u215	Mr. Gantar, your cell phone must be.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u216	Yes, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I didn't hear that. Others heard it. It's called electromagnetic interference, interference. In short, I would like to say that this public administration has changed considerably and is today significantly better, significantly more professional than it once was. And it doesn't make any sense to accuse bureaucrats, but today they are young people, educated significantly better, significantly more effective. I am not saying that everything is fine with the public administration, far from it, but there is no point in going with such flat-rate arguments. That is why I would say, above all, that our mission as the opposition is also to do so, or, above all, to subject critical judgment to all the measures proposed by the government, and we are also doing so, and we are trying to do so in a reasoned manner, and we are doing so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u217	Thank you. Mr. Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u218	Thank you. I don't know who - but it was misunderstood - talked about these bureaucrats, these officials don't work that they're not qualified enough to be, I don't know, under-productive and so on, that they're not trained. We are not talking about this, we are talking about this - let's say one example I say that some administrations have even designed their own internal logistics services. Is this a rational approach to work? I am sure that in these logistics services everyone has done their tasks fairly, professionally and on a scale and so forth, but together this is not rational. And the law, as it is, allows these tasks to be organised together within the Ministry. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u219	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 1? Mrs. Lavtijar Bebler, about Article 1 and the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u220	So, I don't know, it looks like the debaters coming from the SDS have not read the article in the basic text of the law. Article 2 already stipulates that the Ministry, in relation to the police, establishes development, organisational, human resources and other basic guidelines for the work of the police, then carries out investment activities and investment maintenance tasks in the use of the police, coordinates and coordinates design and so on, directs and supervises the performance of police tasks and performs other tasks in accordance with the law. So this 2nd paragraph, so far, is, as you can see, extremely fragmented. There's plenty of room here for the Ministry to do everything it does in relation to the police. Therefore, it is not clear why a special paragraph should now be added, which states that the Ministry can carry out all or individual tasks of professional assistance for the head of the body in the composition of resource management. So, we don't see any "ratio" here, if that's really what these fellow Members have been talking about. We are therefore convinced that there is an additional lever of the Ministry's supervision and direction in relation to the police and the closure of its independence, namely, the independence and independence of the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u221	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 3 and the amendment of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 5 and the three amendments of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, at 3:10 p.m. in accordance with the meeting's timetable. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u222	Dear Members and Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of the voting devices, namely the orange light on the right hand side of the card inserted. We're moving to agenda number four. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the vote on the law on the cooperation of workers in the management of the European Cooperatives will take place on Friday, 14 July 2006, in the framework of the votes. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal of the blood supply law. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 3. Mr. Contic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Very briefly, once again, before the decision is taken, I would like to point out that when we place a national blooddresser in Article 3, we are only doing so by including all the concepts listed in this Act in Article 3 and actually explaining it. So it's nothing more than saying what a national blood donor means in marriage. I will vote in favour of this amendment, and so will the Social Democrats' Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u224	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 36. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 10. We're voting. 59 Members and Members voted for 57 against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 10 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 33 of the Social Democrats Group. Mr. Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u225	Thank you very much. The Group of Social Democrats will certainly support the proposed amendment. It is our amendment with which we turn "cooperation" into "consent". We have already discussed the role of the Red Cross, its achievements in the past and its plans in the future, that it must have a certain status in the role of the national organiser of the bloodstreaming actions, or that it must also have an impact on how the bloodstreams will be organised, or who will organise them in the future. It is not a monopoly, because this monopoly is not already present, but it is a responsible one, when someone who has organised blood-stretching actions very well in the past must, in our opinion, continue to have this opportunity to cooperate as a national blood-stress organiser in a way that gives consent to those organisations and societies that will also carry out organised blood-stressing activities in the future to give them their consent. And with this amendment, we guarantee it. I also propose that the rest of these amendments be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. I will, of course, support this amendment to Article 33 today, as I also supported the amendment to Article 3, which unfortunately did not receive support. This morning, it was said in the debate that only some members of this national assembly received a letter from the Red Cross of Slovenia signed by Secretary-General Srečko Zajc asking us to support these two amendments. I must say and declare that you have received this letter from all Members of Parliament and Members, so those statements made by some colleagues this morning that only some of the electorates have received it do not hold. I would therefore ask, ladies and gentlemen, to support this amendment to Article 33, and my colleague, Bojan Kontic, has already said the argument about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u228	We're voting. The vote is under way. I note that 71 Members and Members voted, 30 to 41. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give my word to the bill-maker. Here you go, please. Mr Dorijan Marušič, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u229	Thank you, Vice-President of the National Assembly. Honourable Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to or refer to the provision of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and ask that a third consideration of the draft law be made at the same meeting, since the amendments adopted have been amended to less than 10 articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to Rule 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. The vote is under way. I note that from 71 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 24. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law on Friday. [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking]] [[...]] I reiterate that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will be the third reading of the bill [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking]] I'm adjourning the session for five minutes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u231	Dear Members and Members! I would like to inform you that there has indeed been a imbalance between the computer program and the direct calculation. Both can be right, in the first case for a computer program, in the second case for mathematics headed by Mr Mohet. I would therefore suggest that this matter should indeed be re-elected, harmonised and regulated so that it will not be the next time in similar votes. It's not my fault, not Mr. Plewell. I propose that we end this point and continue this point tomorrow in the context of the vote. I'd like to ask for peace! In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the vote on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners will take place on Friday, 14 July 2006, in the framework of the votes. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposed takeover law. Please, Mrs. Pechanova. Please, please. With regard to point eight?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u232	Yeah, sure, I don't know what point it is now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u233	Mrs. Pecanova [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u234	The one we're in [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u235	Please, if you'll follow. [[...]] We went over point seven to point eight.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u236	Yes, of course because you didn't want to hear or see me raise my hand procedurally. Not just now, but before that point, Mr President. I would ask if you are so correct and you understand that we cannot postpone a vote now, and I don't know what else, deciding if we know that it is a pure accounting problem and that one third is one third of the world, whether it is a policy or a primary school, every time we talk about 71, it is 33.8% is 24 votes out of 71, it is said to be more than one third. Therefore, I ask you to decide that this law cannot be voted on or decided in the third reading of this meeting, or else it must be given - please kindly, do not say that we are delaying it, but put this question to the Rules of Procedure Commission, and we will see what happens.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u237	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u238	Maybe they know more mathematics than you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The vote has been taken and the outcome of the vote or the outcome of the vote will be decided after consultation. I'm sorry, I don't want to allow countless opinions here and fight each other. They were different opinions, and that is why I have concluded on this basis. Do you have anything to do with point eight? No, no, no. [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking]] Point eight. [[...]] Mr. Gulic, do you have an 8th point? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u240	I don't think we can discuss the 8th point because you don't want to know what the outcome of the 5th vote was. It's not a matter of opinion, 1 and 1 is 2, and it can't be 1 and 1, 3, and then the opinion, whether it's 2 or 3, we're going to vote here what it is. 24 times 3 is 72. 71 divided by 3 represents 33%, 24, it is said that there is only 67% on that side and here can not be my opinion or your opinion that decides on this, but purely simple calculation, accounting, not mathematics, not occult knowledge, but simple accounting.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u241	Thank you very much. I repeat, we will no longer vote on this, but we will find out on the basis of different opinions what is right. I'm passing by [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking]] [[...]] I continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposed takeover law. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u242	Thank you for your word. Procedurally, Mr President, and procedurally, I will respect you and your way of leading, and I will say procedurally with regard to point 8, which is the point we are considering, I will not go back. If you want to go back, we expect you to be 1/3 tomorrow, just like 1/3 today, and there will be no significant difference here. But since you couldn't or didn't trust the computer that showed at point 7 that criteria 1/3 wasn't met, I'm wondering how you're going to do it, and now I'm going to say that there's going to be 42 votes for this amendment and 16 votes for-- are you sure it's 42 more than 16? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u243	Here you go, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'd really like to have a procedural proposal. To avoid an uncertain result, I would suggest that we buy or collect money together and buy a bag of beans and put it up there, and arrange the beans so that these matters will no longer occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u245	Thank you so much for the beans. We are moving on to a decision on Article 10. I'm sorry, now. [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking]] To Article 8 Mr. Skolch? [[...]] Article 8, procedurally? If it comes to Article 8, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u246	Procedural proposals do not generally refer to articles, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u247	I didn't say point eight.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u248	Then our parliamentary group, Mr President and Mr President of the National Assembly, may propose that, before the decision is taken, this is possible, that it ceases to be the work of the National Assembly and that, Mr President, you, either the summit of the coalition or whoever is dedicated to the figures, clearly determine the outcome of the vote. What was promised to be done tomorrow. Look, for these kinds of indecisiveness, we expose the National Assembly for unnecessary ridicule of all those who accompany us and watch us. I think that the President of the National Assembly must be able at any time to determine the outcome of the vote. If he's not capable of this, then another discussion begins. That's why I don't think we can agree to this delay and drag on, and I don't know what, because it's actually impossible to take the procedure seriously. Mr President, Tsukati, I suggest that in 30 minutes, as far as our Group of Members thinks it is enough to consult, you also gather your experts, the top of the coalition or anyone and find out if you need a School will also calculate how many 24 out of 71 are. Don't worry, I'm happy to do this without having to be specifically stimulated. But we propose a 30-minute recess and expect the President of the National Assembly to clearly determine the outcome of the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u249	Procedural question?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u250	Of course, Mr. Chairman. I respectfully ask, on behalf of the taxpayers, who are paying for all of this to continue the meeting as necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Since a formal proposal has been made by the LDS Member to suspend the meeting in 30 minutes, I am putting this proposal to the vote. We're voting. There were 48 votes in favour, 14 against 33. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted, so I am continuing the meeting. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, moving on to the decision on the amendments tabled, namely the amendments to Article 10. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 10. Please, Mr. Skull, you have an explanation for your vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u252	Mr. Vice President! I believe you're under a lot of pressure from the coalition, but the rules of procedure are clear. If we request a recess before the vote, you must give it to us without a vote. No one has applied for the floor, so I expect what we have asked for before and if there is no debate on this Article 8 and an explanation of vote that you will give us 30 before the vote, if you think a new proposal will save you and 31 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u253	Thank you very much. I'd fix you if I wasn't under coalition pressure, but vice versa. That is why I am informing you and I answer you that the proposal that we have voted on has already been tabled. Now you're asking. Please, if you still have this request on the table, then please, if the leader of the Group of Members submits it. In accordance with the rules of procedure, only the Head of the Group of Members may do so. Mr. Rob, I hope you'll say that in peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u254	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Mr Školč requested a recess on behalf of the Member's Club, ordering how much time, this is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If it's not clear, I repeat it, so do I. On behalf of the Member's Club we request a recess, request a recess, require 30 minutes and please allow us to do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. No rules of procedure say that we must invest or invest this separately, but it is necessary to say it publicly and loudly and now we have told you twice and please order a break immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u255	I'm going to stick to this because you properly requested a 30-minute recess as head of the parliamentary group. Thank you. We resume the meeting at 4:09 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u256	Dear Members and Members, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the National Assembly, with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the draft law on takeovers. Would you like a word, Mr. Rob, on behalf of the Group of Members? I would warn you that we broke this agenda earlier because we were in the voting phase. Nevertheless, I allowed a procedural question, and also ordered a recess, as requested. That's why I'm going to, now I'd like to ask for your word. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Our parliamentary group has proposed a suspension before deciding whether the leadership of the National Assembly is able to move forward and clearly determine the outcome of the decisions. That is why, for us, I will say, it is particularly important if Mr Cuckati has already found the outcome which remains, for some, incomprehensible or interpreted in one way or another. If he has not been able to find out, then I regret to say that our Group does not see that all the conditions are met so that any decision on any point can be taken at all. For each point, the vote is an important part of each vote and the conclusion of the vote ends with the conclusion of the outcome of the vote. If that's not the case, of course it's all wrong. Mr Vice President, it is therefore important for us to know whether you have determined what outcome 24 to 47 means, at 71 present. If that is not the case, then our Group of Members will have to leave the meeting because it does not see the conditions for decision-making. By the way, there is also the Olympics of mathematicians in Ljubljana in a mockery of the developments in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Please, is there a procedural question in this regard? [[...]] We were at point 8 when voting on Article 10. So let me finish this vote that we started. After this vote, I will return to the halted 6th point, which is why all of this happened and why there was also a request for a recess. At this point, I will also tell you what was the outcome of the consultation, what was the outcome of the vote. Then we can proceed normally. Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary group [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] I'd ask if you'd let me run the session. [[...]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 10. We're voting. I note that 69 Members and Members voted for 27 to 42. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. So I'm breaking point 8 and we're going back to agenda six. With regard to the conclusion of the outcome of the vote on the third reading of the proposal for a blood supply law, I find that 71 Members were present and 24 Members were voting against the decision. Given that the mathematical third of 71 23,66, meaning rounded to 24, according to Members, the computer concluded that the decision would be adopted if it was opposed by more than one third of Members, i.e. more than 24, that this decision had not been adopted. In this case, 25 Members should vote against the decision. After examination, I believe that in this case we should take into account the mathematical calculation, which was also made to be one third of 23.66. I therefore note that on the 8th point, the proposed decision has not been adopted and that the Council of State will have a third reading of the law at its next meeting. On the basis of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: a proposal for a third-reading law is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. I find that there were 70 votes in favour and 59 votes in favour against 4. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. This concludes item 6 of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 22. We're voting. The vote was taken by 70 Members and Members, 23 votes to 44. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 77. We're voting. 69 Members and Members voted for 26, up to 42. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. As no amendment has been adopted to the bill, the assembly will vote in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure on the draft law on Friday, 14 July 2006, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of enterprises, the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since it was not possible to table amendments in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. I am informing you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 3. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the aviation law, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of DeSUS, NSI, SDS and SLS to Article 23. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 3. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of DeSUS, NSI, SDS and SLS to Article 35. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of DeSUS, NSI, SDS and SLS to Article 39. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 3. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly adopted the amendments to Articles 23, 35, 39 of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to make an amendment. [[No, no, ……]] I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would not be harmonised. We're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on police, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group of Members and the substantive amendment of the SD Group of Members to Article 1. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 38. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 40. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the LDS Group to Article 5. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 43. I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the LDS Group to Article 5. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 42. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment of the LDS Group to Article 5. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 42. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading, no amendments could be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting on the law. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 19. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 19th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. At the same time, I inform you that an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly will begin in 10 minutes following the notification you received. Thank you.
