ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u1	Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, visitors, visitors to the Tribunals. We continue the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Matjaž Han from 13.45 p.m. on, France [[Ferry]] Horvat, Franz Kangler, Bojan Kontič from 12 o'clock onwards, Mojca Kucler Dolinar, Martin Mikolič until 12 o'clock, Miran Potč from 14 o'clock onwards, Josef Školč from 13 o'clock onwards and Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. In the light of the event that is still taking place in the lobby and before continuing the meeting, I would like to inform you that, as of today, the parliamentary dimension of the European campaign against family violence against women has begun. At its meeting on 28 June 2006, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted Resolution 1512 on combating family violence against women, in which it called on the national parliaments of the 46 Member States to join today, i.e. on 24 November, the European campaign of the Council of Europe to combat family violence against women, which will officially start with the opening event in Madrid on 27 November 2006, which will be an introduction to two-year activities dedicated to this area. The campaign agreement was adopted at the third Council of Europe summit in May 2005. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has proposed that the national parliaments of the Member States be actively involved in the campaign by also appointing a contact Member or Member State who will be in charge or in charge of organising activities at parliamentary level within the framework of this campaign. On the basis of that resolution, the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mr Rene Van der Linden, called on the President of the National Assembly, Mr France Tsukjati, to join the campaign and to forward the name of the contact person to the National Assembly. In response, the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe informed the President of the Parliamentary Assembly that the National Assembly would represent the President of the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities and a member of the delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and a member of the Committee on Policy for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men of this Assembly, Ms Mag. Majda Potter. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] At its meeting in San Marino on 17 November this year, the Standing Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe also adopted a solemn declaration to Parliament, united in the fight against family violence against women, which was established in the Committee on Policies for Equal Opportunities for Men and Women of this Assembly. You have received the text of the declaration on the bench and will be entered into the next procedure. You have probably also met representatives of NGOs in the lobby of the National Assembly Hall, who are also actively involved in the campaign. The campaign today, November 24th, is also joined by our National Assembly. And we can read and believe in the following principles: We do not cause violence, we do not overlook violence, we do not encourage violence, we do not act appropriately in the face of violence, and we speak and act against violence. And in this light, we continue today’s meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving to 21. Agenda item - First draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Participation of Workers in Management, EPA 1063-IV. We have two hours and 40 minutes to discuss. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of 10 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Mirano Potrče requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs State Secretary Cotman, to give an additional explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed law, which was also coordinated with the social partners and within the framework of the development partnership, taking into account a number of proposals for improving the material, regulates the issues of the participation of workers in the bodies of companies with a single management system, which has been provisionally regulated by the new Act on Economic Companies in its transitional decisions. As part of the comprehensive reform of the Company Act, the possibility of companies to choose freely between a two-tier and one-tier management system was enacted in the Republic of Slovenia this year, with the law laying down a single system for the management of companies and temporarily regulating the issues of workers' participation in the bodies of those companies in order to avoid legal emptiness. With the adoption of proposed amendments and additions, the amended law will regulate the entire area of co-ordination of workers in the management of both the two-track and the single management system, taking into account the traditional superstandard co-decision arrangements in our country. In doing so, the bill contains the latest or most urgent terminology in line with new laws: the Company Act, the Offences Act and the Labour Relations Act. In connection with the regulation of the cooperation of workers in the company's bodies with the single management system, the proposed amendments to the law are followed by the decisions adopted under Article 703 of the Company Act, which has been thoroughly addressed in this area, and ultimately by the professional, academic and interested public, and yet the solutions of this Article have been proposed for constitutional review, but the Constitutional Court has not yet issued a decision. The Government, which fully rejects the proposals of the initiator of the constitutional assessment of this Article of the Company Act, considers that it is appropriate and necessary to pass on the issue of the participation of workers in the management of this Act and thus to burden the Company Act. In accordance with the proposed legislative amendments, the participation of workers in the management of the company’s bodies with a single management system will be implemented through representatives of workers on the board of directors and boards of the board of directors, but also through representatives of workers among the company’s executive directors. Taking into account the legal solutions, the number of employees' representatives on the board of directors of a company with a single system shall not be less than one employee representative from every three complementary members of the board of directors, and a worker's representative may not be chairman of the board of directors. The draft law also lays down the right of the Council of Workers to appoint a representative of workers to the board of the Management Board and also to the committee of the Supervisory Committee. Following the example of a working director on the board of a company with a two-tier management system, a similar right is also given in a single management system. The draft law provides for the possibility that, in certain cases, if at least one employee representative is on the board of directors of a company with more than 500 employees, one employee representative on the board of directors shall become one of the executive directors appointed by the Management Board on a proposal from the Council of Workers. In addition to that proposal, as well as the extension of rights already arising from the ZGD, the possibility of an agreement for an Executive Director of a type of employee representative on the Management Board of companies employing fewer than 500 employees also contains the same provisions as the applicable management law for directors of workers in companies with less than 500 employees, which is also preserved by the proposed amendments. Taking into account the solution adopted by the ZGD, which provides that the provisions on the participation of workers in company bodies in a single management system do not apply to small companies, the amendment of the law introduces the same solution for companies with a single management system as well as for companies with a two-tier management system. The important novelty contained in the proposed law is also a complement to matters considered to be the status issues of the company in which the employer must inform and request a joint consultation of the Council of Workers prior to admission [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] for these issues is extended to the status of company transformation and to the changes in the company management system.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Gulič on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u4	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the participation of workers in management. Now I have listened to Madam Secretary of State, Marjetko Cotman, and if all of this were true what she was saying, then I would have kept my mouth shut and left the booth. But, unfortunately, that's not true. We're not talking about any superstandard, it's just a fat lie. Well, if she's not very fat, at least she's well-bred. Because something about what the EU requires we haven't actually come up with. It's all pretty and well said, and the intention of marriage is certainly good. These things need to be settled. Slovenia is, however, a social state and requires the widest possible participation of all in decision-making, certainly also in the participation of workers in management, but if we go through the bill itself, we see that much of what has been said here as the will of the law is in some way disintegrating, weakening, erupting in the text itself. This, of course, is also the subject of this, I will say, a perverse way of accepting, proposing. Again we have a procedure that we have actually seen many times. This February, the Group of Social Democrats introduced legislation or proposals for amendments to the Act on the participation of workers in governance. This was, of course, rejected or rejected by the Government and was not supported by the coalition if it was necessary to adopt the Company Act, which was already in the process of resolving these matters - we would in principle agree. The second reason was that the disadvantage of this proposal was that it did not regulate the participation of workers in the management of institutions. What happened now? There is no such thing in this proposal either. It is said, first they told me how bad this thought is, that there are not enough vitamins, that there is not at the end of the cake, what they have offered themselves, but once again it is just cranberry sausage and very little cabbage. That is, a matter that we have been dealing with for quite some time in these proposals. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, of course, we support this talk. Indeed, the reason for the adoption of the law is, in this connection, the substance of the Law on the participation of workers in management and the Law on Economic Companies, in particular, in the section on the participation of workers in the bodies of society. It is logical that the amendment to the Company Act should properly follow the coordination of the substantive provisions of the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management, but it was therefore necessary to introduce, inter alia, this uniform way of managing the company in Article 703 of the Act on Economic Society, which established the way in which workers were managed in a single system in early 2006. Amendments need to be made to ensure a constitutional principle, which means that the constitutional principle of equality before the law must be ensured by law so that workers in a single management system can be managed in such a way that the scope of rights is meaningfully the same as those in a two-tier system. It is said that the law must find such a solution, which, despite certain differences in the function of the supervisory boards, in particular with members and administrative committees, even employees of companies with single management, recognises at least the unitary and most semi-representative representation of the boards. Of course, such an arrangement requires a number of changes and a much clearer picture, which, of course, must also shed light on the decision of the Constitutional Court. In the Liberal Democracy, we will try to look as closely as possible at what this law brings, especially what it does not yet bring, and in further consideration, of course, we will try to achieve what State Secretary Marjetka Cotman has also said, above all, the standard that we have already had and which would be well preserved in these new systemic solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u5	Thank you, too. He now has the floor, Mr Kumer, on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. When I listened to the introduction of the Secretary of State, I was slightly frozen, because again, I have heard so many times that in Slovenia workers have too much rights to co-operate or manage businesses. Let me repeat once again what I have already said at this point: that development, the new added value, as the President of this National Assembly often likes to say, profit, is not only a category that results from good, smart and appropriate allocations of capital, but also the result of a healthy, positive climate and knowledge and the ability of workers in particular, i.e. workers, in individual working environments. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we have proposed, at the very confirmation of the agenda of this meeting, that this item withdraw from the agenda and move to one of the future meetings of the National Assembly. Two reasons were for such a proposal. The first reason was the fact that in February of this year, when we adopted the amendment of the Law on Economic Companies, the Government rejected the proposal of the Socialist Democrats' Group of Members, which had submitted a parliamentary procedure to supplement the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management with the intention of supplementing the Law on Economic Companies with the Act on the Cooperation of Workers in Management, which would also introduce a single system of management on the basis of the new Law on Economic Companies. At that time, the Government’s argument was to reject the Social Democrats’ proposal in order to ensure that the Workers’ Cooperation Act needs to be thoroughly recast and restored. However, if this is to be done, a thorough analysis of the existing one needs to be carried out and it takes time. That is why the proposal of the Social Democrats was rejected at the time. Today, almost a year later, we can see that none of this was done by the Ministry or Government. We have a novel on the table, which after almost a year is prepared very quickly and without more comprehensive analysis than promised. More! In the novel, he even added something that he does not deserve to be written down by even the Minister of Labour. If the Minister of the Economy has been tough on the amendment of the law and has been more and more on the employers' side, i.e. capital, at least the Minister of Labour should be on the workers' side, i.e. workers and not the other way around. But more about that in the end. The second reason for the postponement was that the mentioned Article 703 of the ZGD was a transitional provision, but it could still be applied directly, so there is no need to rush it into this law. This is even more important if we know that Article 703 is the subject of a constitutional judgment, which means that in the law on the cooperation of workers in management they would transfer solutions that may prove to be inconsistent with the Constitution. Let us recall, however, that the Crohnian argument, both the government and the majority in this National Assembly, was rejected by the Social Democrats almost a year ago in that it had not yet been definitively adopted by the ZGD, even though it was in the third reading. Today, this can be a perfectly identical argument for a return to the treatment of this law. The Constitutional Court has not yet ruled. Even now the fate of the constitutional complaint is not yet known, so let us wait for the hurry. However, we can make very useful use of this time in the meantime. The Study Centre for Industrial Democracy has indeed carried out a thorough analysis of the whole law on the participation of workers in management and has prepared a thorough amendment based on creative dialogue, in particular with those concerned with the enforcement of this law. And we were approached by a representative of the Association of Councils of Workers of Slovenia with these proposals for a thorough reform of the law and it would be right, fair and proper to make use of this effort. Therefore, in the Socialist Group of Members on the basis of these findings and facts, we still believe that it would be much more rational if this law were moved to one of the future meetings. We probably all agree in our assessment that there is no real point in starting a difficult legislative procedure for the adoption of a law that is already known in advance that it may even be abolished in its substantive work because of constitutional dispute. Thus, the Ministry would also have time to fulfil its promise from the beginning of this year to propose changes based on a thorough analysis and examination of the applicable law. Because, on the contrary, the fact that the applicant obviously does not have any more serious analysis and other professional basis to defend the existing and proposed new solutions is a serious fear that, in the end, we will get an unacceptable scribble that will not benefit anyone; on the contrary, it will bring more harm than systemic and practical benefits. And one such harmful provision, which in fact substantially changes the content of the solutions so far and should be considered as such again, is the amendment of Article 67 of the current current Law on the participation of workers in management. This amendment is absolutely unacceptable, as it severely interferes with the Institute of so-called Labour Immunities of the Council of Workers and significantly reduces their level of protection against the possible chicanosis of the employer. And here's the counter-thesis or the counter-agreement of the Secretary of State, who said we're introducing a super-standard -- no, if we already had a super-standard, we're going now into sub-standard. The proposed new provision, without any reasonable explanation, removes the protection of the members of the Council from becoming over-employees, from reassignment to another job. It also abolishes, for such measures, the obligation to obtain, for such actions, the prior consent of the Council of Workers. This change is nowhere near and is simply not of a co-ordination nature, as the proposalr is trying to convince us. And this is an illustrative example of the incorrect and impossible operation of the Minister of Labour, who should propose, instead of abandoning the exercise of the labour rights of workers' representatives and reducing the already achieved levels of their working legal immunity, an extension of Article 67 to the representatives of workers in the supervisory boards and administrative committees. Indeed, they enjoy only protection against the termination of the employment contract under Article 113 of the Labour Relations Act, but not protection against other forms of bullying. Perhaps even such immunity would be needed even more by members of the workers’ council. If the Ministry had an analysis and assessment of the practice so far, such a conclusion might have been reached. And in the end. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the urgency and need for at least a temporary solution to the problem of co-management of workers in institutions under this law. This topic has also been one of the arguments, I will say in chronic arguments, for the rejection of the bill by the Social Democrats this spring, because our proposal has not regulated this area. As we know, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia expressly stressed by decision the inadmissibility of the current anti-constitutional situation in institutions. Let us recall the discussion when we had about the new RTV law and the constitutional provisions on this subject. As we know, the preparation of a special law, such a law, is a really long process, so we now think that it is an opportunity to put at least a temporary solution into this law until this is fully resolved in the institution law. In short, in the Group of Members, we believe that the Law on the participation of workers in the management after 13 years of practical testing is clearly necessary for thorough analysis and possible renovations. This is not least evidenced by the proposal for additions prepared by the Study Centre for Industrial Democracy. Therefore, if there is at least a minimum political will and if the new Minister or new Minister of Labour realizes that, as a representative of the Government, not only an arbitrator between employers and employees, but also in his own way a representative representative of workers in the Government, not their opposition, these cases could be removed quite quickly from the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Capuder on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! Time has shown the depreciation and inefficiency of the system, where all responsibility for the management or management of the enterprise lies only with the capital owner. The broader concepts of corporate governance, where responsibility is shared among different interest groups, such as owners, managers, employees, buyers, suppliers, the social community, are being said, the environment and this is confirmed by the practice of many successful companies at home more and more in a world where employees are being given more and more attention and have a genuine partnership with them, because if employees go away, they take all the skills and all the knowledge with them. The single management system of shares companies is the dominant management system between the Member States of the European Union. As part of the comprehensive reform of the Company Act, the possibility for companies to choose freely between a two-tier or one-tier management system was also enacted in Slovenia this year, with the law laying down a single management system for companies and slightly complementing the existing two-tier management system. In the transitional provisions of the Company Act, until the law is in force, which will regulate the participation of workers in the management of a company with a single management system, it also addressed the issues of the participation of workers in the company bodies with a single management system. Even before the adoption of the ZGD, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia addressed a proposal for amendments to the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Governance, which was sent by the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. The amendments to the law at the time did not receive support, but they did not receive support mainly because of this - and I think that it is only because of this - that at the same time they were preparing changes to the GAG, which established the management systems and now adopted the Law on Economic Companies has not yet been definitively adopted. During the preparation phase of the government novel, the change has seen a great deal of professional and interesting coordination. Since the ZGD has only temporarily settled issues that are the actual content of the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management, it will, by adopting the proposed amendments and supplementing the amended law, regulate the whole area of cooperation of workers in both a two-track and a single management system, with the proposed amendments and additions to the law following the solutions proposed in the GGD. The solutions to the law are supported by both the professional and academic and the public concerned, as the Madam Secretary has already mentioned today. The draft law provides that the participation of workers in the management of the company's bodies shall be carried out through representatives of workers in the management and control bodies of the company, namely in a single management system through representatives of workers on the board of directors and its commissions, and in certain cases may also be carried out through a representative of workers among the company's executive directors. The number of employees' representatives on the board of directors of the company, which is the authority for the management and supervision of the company with a single management system, shall not be less than one employee representative of the three complementary members of the board of directors, with the Chairman of the Management Board always being a representative of shareholders. The draft law also provides for the right of the Council of Workers to appoint a representative of workers to the board of the Management Board and also to the committee of the Supervisory Board. According to the proposal for amendments to the law, Article 8 states that in a company with a single management system where more than 500 workers are employed, one of the representatives of the employees on the Management Board is appointed as the Executive Director at the proposal of the Council of Workers. Article 6 of the amendments to the Act refers to the number of employees in companies with a two-tier management system. It has been established that the number of employees in the Supervisory Board must not be less than one third of the members and not more than half of the members of the Supervisory Board of the company’s number of representatives. However, the number of employees on the Management Board shall not be less than one employee representative of three additional members of the Management Board each time. A representative of the Council of Workers in the Supervisory Board and the Management Board may not be President of that Authority. Also, representatives of workers in the supervisory board or board of directors or its committees representing workers shall be elected by the Council of Workers, which shall, of course, be determined in more detail by the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Workers. In the New Slovenia Group, we welcome the current solution in Article 4, which speaks of the fact that the members of the Council of Workers cannot be reduced or the disciplinary or compensation proceedings instituted against them, or otherwise placed in a less favourable or subordinate position, of course if they act in accordance with the law, collective agreement and contract of employment. However, special protection against termination is regulated by Article 113 of the Labour Relations Act, which applies to members of the Council of Workers and the Labour Trustee, a member of the Supervisory Board representing workers. Let me just read what it says in the first indent: "The employer shall not cancel a contract of employment for a member of the Council of Workers, a worker’s trustee, a member of the Supervisory Board representing the employees, a representative of workers in the world of the institution, and a designated or loved union trustee without the consent of the authority of which he is a member and elected; and protection from dismissal for the persons referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be stated for all of these appointed persons, for the duration of his duties and for one year after its termination." Of course, there is still an open problem of cooperation in the management of small companies in the law. A small company shall be considered as a non- micro-company under Article 55(3) of the ZGD which meets two of the following criteria: that the average number of workers in a business year is less than 50, that net turnover does not exceed EUR 7 million 300 000 and the value of the asset does not exceed EUR 3 million 650 thousand. It follows from the proposal of the novelty that small companies meeting the above criteria are not bound to apply the provisions of the Chapter on the participation of workers in the management of the company, which does not mean that they can agree otherwise in individual small companies. As we have already heard, the Ministry of Labour has coordinated the law with the social partners. We also coordinated it within the framework of the Partnership for Development, where the ministry took into account some of the comments made by the Social Democrats' Group at the time. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that the amendment of the law will allow for the quality of the participation of workers in the management of companies, which is why we will also support the law as a good basis for further consideration in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Brenčič has the following word on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I say hello to everyone! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the participation of workers in management does not, in essence, prejudice the content and purpose of the fundamental mission carried out in the title of employees or workers by the saints of workers, particularly on the issue of their cooperation and the influence of the management of companies and cooperatives, irrespective of the form and structure of ownership, but the amendments and additions relate only to compliance with other laws, in particular with the Law on Economic Companies, the Law on Labour Relations and the Law on Offences. In addition, certain clarifications of the text of the laws relating to the relationship to the two Directives of the European Union and, consequently, the harmonisation with the Law on European Works Councils and the participation of workers in the management of the European Shareholder Society and the European Cooperative Society are being carried out. In this respect, we adopt a proposal for a law in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group as a kind of technical law, which is in its own right, and we support it, including a fundamental amendment referred to in Article 703 of the Act on Economic Companies, which defines the participation of workers in the bodies of society with a single management system. For the parliamentary group, it is crucial to see these amendments and amendments to the law taken by the Association of Councils of Workers, which must be a key interlocutor or partner in dialogue with representatives of employers and the Government on this issue. In this context, in the context of the second reading of the draft law on the home working body, the parliamentary group will listen to their reasoned comments if they are submitted. We believe, however, that because of a number of new situations and situations and specific relationships between employees and administrations, management and owners, which are brought about by new economic and economic approaches in the enterprise and cooperative management system, the whole content and the law on the participation of workers in management is essential. And this is also in terms of trust to the labour councils as the only beloved employee representative, also giving more authority not only in the management of businesses, but also in certain segments in the formation of interrelationships between workers and administrations or owners. Because it is our firm belief that some kind of superstandard can influence workers' influence over the entire machinery of society or businesses, even at a time when trade unions are becoming increasingly self-inflicted. The Group will unanimously support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Pojbič has the last word on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u12	Your Honors are here! We have before us a proposal for a law on the participation of workers in a single management system, which has so far been regulated in the transitional provisions of the Company Act or in Article 703 thereof. With the support of the economic and professional public, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to propose that shares companies should be allowed to choose a single management system. It thus pursued the objective of establishing two comparable management systems and the choice of companies is most appropriate. The fact that the single management system of shares companies is the predominant management system between EU Member States needs to be stressed. Participation of workers in the management of the company's bodies shall be carried out in the draft law through representatives of workers in the management and control bodies of the company, in a single management system through representatives of workers on the board of directors and in its committees, and in certain cases may also be carried out through a representative of workers among the company's executive directors. The draft law provides that the number of employees' representatives on the board of directors of the company shall be determined by the company's statute, but only that number of representatives shall not be less than one employee's representative per three additional members of the board of directors, and the representative of the Management Board shall always be a shareholder's representative. The draft law also lays down the rights in the workers' world to appoint a representative of workers to the board of directors. In certain cases, it shall also be possible for a representative of workers on the Management Board to become one of the executive directors appointed by the Management Board on a proposal from the Working Council. It should be stressed that the provisions on the participation of workers in a single management system do not apply to small companies, but that there is a possibility of a different agreement in a small company. With regard to this solution, small companies are not obliged to apply the provisions of the law. In the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, the proposal is not acceptable, as it introduces the same solution for companies with a single and two-tier management system. The arrangements so far have not allowed workers to participate in the supervisory board bodies. Of course, once again, I stress that they can agree differently in individual small companies. A small company is a company that meets two of these criteria: the average number of employees in a business year does not exceed 50 employees, the net turnover of sales does not exceed EUR 7 million 300 000 and the value of the asset does not exceed EUR 3 million 650 thousand. However, in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, the employer will certainly be assisted by a provision that the employer must inform and request a joint consultation of the Council of Workers before adopting major statutory changes. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the proposal for a law is qualitatively ready and also Europeanly comparable. In view of all the positive developments it brings towards the participation of workers in the single management system, we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u13	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The first one has the word, Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. A respected secretary with a colleague, a colleague and a colleague! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the participation of workers in management is more or less a consequence of failure, and today it is more about coordination, which has already been in that fundamental debate, which has been quite extensive and long-term, and also very complex, on the Law on Economic Companies. We also talked about this a lot in this Parliament outside of it, because it is important material for every economic society in Slovenia, which I believe we have restored quite thoroughly, corrected in a positive sense and also introduced. A single system thus allowing Slovenia to choose companies as single or double-tier. We know that a single system prevails in Europe, but in Slovenia we also have a chance for both of these systems. This I think is an advantage and some novelty, I will say, of this Law on Economic Companies, which, in my opinion and in my knowledge, is much better, much better and gives certain opportunities that were not previously given in this law. In short, society itself chooses which system is more favourable, which system is more adapted to the society that is being discussed at that time. In short, today's case is more or less about coordinating these common things into some common package of this law, where workers should and should also have their rights and which they also have in accordance with their powers, and should co-decision with each such economic society. Any normal management body, representative of the company wants and you must want to cooperate with the representatives of the workers in this society. This is certainly the interest of both parties and if it is a common interest, then the interest of the company as well as the whole in which the business entity operates. And I believe that this partnership, which is even more important in this matter today than ever before, is recorded in this legislation and gives an opportunity to the worker to co-decision on the creation of the business policy of all businesses. I believe and hope that this proposed law will also allow this cooperation to be as appropriate as possible between management, between workers in this society, and that this co-ordination and this cooperation will be in the interests of both and others, and that I will therefore also support this law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we have proposed a general debate on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the participation of workers in management, because we believe it would be useful for the National Assembly to assess whether the proposed law was ripe for further adoption or would it be right to wait until, for the first time, it was settled issues in terms of civil society cooperation with regard to the assessment of whether after 13 years of cooperation of workers after management, in addition to some more co-ordinated solutions, a more thorough assessment of what and how the cooperation of workers in management takes place in companies - that we do not talk about institutions, because there are no issues at all - and, secondly, in order to assess collectively whether it is wise to raise the issue of this law at a time until the transitional provisions of the Law on Economic Companies, which we have adopted a few months ago, take place before the Constitutional Court of Justice, a constitutional dispute. For we agree that the constitutional dispute is justifiably triggered - what decision no one can claim or know in the future - but we understand the meaning of the constitutional dispute in that, in a single management system, we should try to make the distinction between the position of workers in co-management as different as possible from the position of workers in co-management in companies with a two-tier system. Nevertheless, we must recognise that, in a formal and factual sense, the difference between the supervisory councils and their integration of workers and between the administrations or boards and their integration is a difference, but we consider that the difference is not enough to justify the great difference that the current law has made in the transitional provisions of the Company Act. If we practically make these differences, then the law for companies with a two-tier management system provides for a minimum of one-third to the maximum half representation of workers in the supervisory boards, whereas companies with a single system have a maximum of one-third to a minimum of one-fifth representation. If, in a company with a single management system, the Administration decides to propose and implement an executive board with five members, in such a case, only one member of the Management Board shall be employed and that is 20%. This, however, is such a difference in the visa of a two-tier management system which, in our view, is not justified and at least requires an assessment of whether this distinction is justified or not in relation to the situation in the management system. And this essential problem that exists in the law, now the Government - wants to transpose from the transitional provisions of the Company Act into the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management without any real need for it. In the transitional provisions, cooperation is regulated, however it is, the National Assembly has taken this decision. Just because of some alignment with the Offences Act and the Labour Relations Act, as the Government has argued, and by reference to the Directive, not saying that they should be implemented tomorrow, but that there is still time to do so, it insists that these solutions should be included immediately without a thorough analysis of the system of cooperation of workers in general, without sufficient agreement with civil society dealing with these issues, the trade unions also have certain comments on how certain issues are regulated in the law, and we continue to do so. I do not think that this is good, and this was also the reason why we proposed that this law should not be considered at this meeting. We also proposed formally, and the vote was taken. I do not want to be a bad one or create procedural complications with some of the re-voting requirements that, on behalf of the Group of Members, would formally have an option in our Rules of Procedure, but I would like to ask a coalition that decides whether the arguments that we are referring to also do not seem to be valid enough for it to get heads up and say that it is indeed wrong to decide on the law at this meeting, even in relation to issues related to the role of the current Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, who certainly played an important role in insisting that this law must be addressed at this meeting. I personally know this, and I also told you before I knew about the proposals that are now on the table, at the beginning of the session, and I talked to him and asked him, but he very unkindly refused me to talk about it, because the marriage is beautiful and good, and that the problems he has with the social partners will not be further deepened by the fact that we will discuss these matters once again. Let the coalition think about whether maybe there's a reason to think about it, because otherwise it will happen, I'll say again, what we've already predicted. Right after the law is passed, we will come with a new text of the law. And you will again be at the fact that you will accidentally report that it is not comprehensive enough to know what is missing from it, that you in the government will do better than you always do, and you will not do that, because no one in the government normally is so deeply involved in the issues of employee participation in management that they do not care about the trade unions, and in particular the Association of Workers' Councils, which is also prepared and interested in considering the content of the law with the social partners and proposing comprehensive solutions. That is why it seems worth thinking about, especially since we all know that changes and additions do not allow us to discuss the contents of this law in a comprehensive manner. And we think it's worth a full readjustment and renovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. A number of Members and Members have checked out.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. This bill, as my colleagues have already said before, is premature and I do not speak about it in an incorrect, simple or forgotten manner, what was agreed upon when amendments to the Company Act were adopted with regard to the introduction of a single management system in companies. It is unfair and unfair that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, together with the coalition, promises not to Members of the National Assembly, but to all the work in this country, that the Law on the Co-ordination of Workers will be amended in such a way that a thorough analysis of the situation will be carried out, even after the introduction of a single change in the single management of a number of companies that have already happened and which will happen, and then, after a few months or after a year, we will forget about it. I would say earlier that this is a completely ignorant attitude towards one of the most important parts of social communication, that this is proof that the Ministry that runs the department, including the coordination of interests between employers and employees, is simply not only incompetent, but also unprepared for any proper and active cooperation in the creation of a social agreement. This is also one of the elements of social communication, and I am convinced that it is also the absence of a minister, regardless of the fact that he is now in derogation or withdrawal, which is the end of the day for us here in the National Assembly, as well as for the workers who should have come to the solutions they have proposed through this law, which we have also warned about in this Group, but nothing has happened. His absence shows that he does not care what happens to workers in this country, and that it is more important that he or she be able to correct fertility by means of non-specific and unreasonable measures than by ruling an agreement and genuine social peace in the country. For this reason, I think it would be right to declare this law inappropriate and allow the Government time to prepare a more suitable law in cooperation with all the social partners.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u19	Thank you very much. And it's already Mr. Pojbich's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With the new Company Act, we have decided to allow companies to choose a single management system, so that companies have two comparable management systems and there is a decision to choose. Once again, I would like to stress the fact that many do not want to be seen as a single management system for participating companies as the dominant management system among the Member States of the European Union. Britain, Sweden, Spain, Belgium are some of the countries with a single system. If we carefully review the table on co-decision of workers in governance in the European Union countries, the fact that 12 countries have a single management system, 8 of which are two-track, and only 4 other countries have a choice. I believe that the provisions of the law, where the participation of workers in the management of the company is carried out through representatives of workers in the management and control bodies of the company, are well prepared, as the bill provides that the number of employees' representatives on the company's management board shall be determined by the company's statute, where the number of representatives shall not be less than one employee representative on each of the three complementary members of the board and the Chairman of the Management Board shall always be a shareholder. The Council of Workers shall also have the right to appoint a representative of workers on the board of the Management Board. As a positive welcome is the possibility that in certain cases a representative of workers on the Management Board will become one of the executive directors appointed by the Management Board on a proposal from the Working Council. I also welcome the solution that the employer must inform and request a joint consultation of the Council of Workers before accepting certain major statutory changes. In the drafting of the law, further coordination was made between the draft law in the framework of the partnership for development, which also took into account certain comments and proposals made by the Social Democrats' Group of Members, which, of course, I welcome here. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the proposal for amendments to the Workers' Cooperation Act, both for companies with a single and for companies with a two-tier management system, introduces the same solution. It should also be pointed out that the arrangements so far did not allow the participation of workers in company bodies with a two-tier management system if the company did not meet conditions such as at least 500 employees and did not have a supervisory board at all. Of course, in a small society, as I have pointed out today, they can agree differently. The proposed solution gives workers the right to participate in society's bodies even under easier conditions than the old regulation allowed, and I would stress once again that I will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The co-operation of workers in economic and other companies is certainly a solution that can contribute greatly to the better functioning of the company itself and, finally, to the status of the employees themselves. If there is co-management in the company, this contributes to greater loyalty, contributes to greater motivation for employees and, of course, to better results. I also personally support such solutions, which are already present in Slovenia in accordance with the 1993 law. However, this is now 13 years, and we have also received many changes in Slovenia, both in status, economic and political. There is no doubt, however, a major change in this area has been made by the new Company Act, which we have adopted not so long ago. At this time, this Law on Economic Companies has received numerous praises, at least in the environment from which I come from, and from the interlocutors who have adopted this law, I can say, in the vast majority, they have been gratefully accepted. In this law, when we adopted it, we received a number of suggestions, proposals directly from the area governing the co-management of workers in businesses. Since then, transitional provisions have indicated or introduced solutions in this area to some extent ensuring the proper participation of employees in the company. At that time, however, the government also made a promise that this area would be regulated by a specific law or by amending the Law on Co-ordination and such a bill is here today. I myself, as I have mentioned, support solutions where employees have the option of co-management in the company, but this must be an option, this right within some reasonable framework, because it is necessary to realize that only the owner or representatives of the capital are those who have the greatest responsibility or risk to this company, so it is necessary to ensure co-management in such a framework that can only contribute to the better functioning of the company, and certainly not by trying to reintroduce self-government, which is already alive in our country. Therefore, I believe that these solutions are good in this law, setting a minimum quota for employees or representatives of employees in the management of both single and double companies. There is also no longer such restriction on the size of these companies as has been the case in the past. All these matters are regulated by companies themselves by their statutes or acts which they themselves adopt. Here only the minimum number of employees must be defined in these companies. I also welcome the provision in which the protection of members of the workers' councils is introduced, so that they cannot in any way deteriorate in any way in the company, of course, provided that they work in accordance with the expectations, in accordance with the laws. And this is certainly an important safeguard that allows for the autonomy of the work of members of the workers' council. As I have mentioned, I support such solutions, so I also support this proposal of the law for further consideration, especially because it was also in coordination with the social partners at the time of preparation, including all the interlocutors, in those frameworks that still contribute to good solutions. However, this is a topic that cannot, at least I am sure, bear 100% of the coordination of all partners. In this proposal, I believe that this coherence is large enough for this law to be further examined. I'll support this marriage myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek already has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! In my view, it is necessary to continue to regulate legislation on the participation of workers in management as soon as possible. This law, which is before us today, is, in my opinion, an appropriate foundation. I come from the fact that workers are always, even in our society or in our own particular, a weaker article in representing their interests also through the management of societies. In this co-management of societies, there is a need to strive for co-responsibility that provides synergies for all the factors involved, in fact, from this synergy, it is necessary to achieve a harmonious society, positive effects for employers as well as for employees and, in itself, this is not self-evident. It might seem that Slovenia, given that there has been so-called self-government in the previous system, has a little more tradition here than any other country or country, but we are aware that this is not the same as that some societies in Europe have come a long way further and that this cooperation of workers in governance is not only institutionalised but also functioning. In the previous system, there was a mirage of co-decision, co-management, self-management. We know that there was, to a large extent, deception, even in fact, some companies did not run themselves through directors or I don't know who, but the actual centres of power were on the political levers of one party. Now, in my opinion, we need to go in the direction of positive experience in Europe. This law brings these solutions to companies with a single system and appropriate size. Here I am surprised that the heirs of the former system of society today are somehow trying to block the adoption of this law, slowing it down as if there were no rushes. I'm stressing again. The ability of workers to co-operate, to participate in corporate decision-making bodies is never sufficiently regulated. Only with proper co-decision can we ensure that companies develop faster, that society is more harmonious and that workers' interests are better protected. For this reason, it seems to me that the law is a suitable basis for further adoption and, of course, I will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u26	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Madam Secretary of State, I actually wanted to know more about these matters, so I have two questions. This bill was very detailed in the work of at least two groups of people whom you consider to be your interlocutors and who were told that you coordinated or that the material was coordinated. You didn't say it in a coordinated manner, which reminded me that I wanted to find out what that coordination was. These were meetings with only hooks or conclusions that took into account the will of your associates. I mean the Union of Free Trade Unions. You also said you coordinated this with your partners. Of course, partners from what they've been saying don't talk like that unless you think they're "sparing" partners. The study centre for industrial democracy, which has quite a few comments, has carried out a very precise and good analysis of this law. The comments are, of course, everything, and those from the unions and from the Study Centre focused mainly on ensuring that you provide a minimum of minimum and no provision that would increase these rights of workers in management. I want to know how much you've taken into account in these conversations, in the preparation of the marriage, in fact, how much you've taken into account your interlocutors and your partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. I would first reply to two, three debaters, always on such subjects where we have some comments or suggestions in the opposition, 20 or 30 years ago, and with nostalgia we get the label of the heirs of the previous system. Speaking of which, I would like to explain to our foreign minister, to our parliamentary colleague Jerovšk, and to someone else that the fundamental difference between the previous and the present system is in paper. It's in a different nature of paper. Socialism had the highest value of so-called classified papers, and now capitalism has the highest value of securities. So, there's always paper in the game, the one who had access to these confidentials in socialism, had authority, had control of the staff. Those who have securities today, and we are talking about capital, are also in the hands of the people today, and, of course, they are turning the world around. So many nostalgics he always takes back. Otherwise, I would say that we are not discussing the introduction of a single management system today. Today we are discussing the government's promise of a month in February or March of this year to make a thorough amendment to the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management. And we do not have this thorough proposal before us today. This is the promise she made. That is why she did not agree to that proposal by the Social Democrats at the same time as the GNI to address these issues in this law. At that time, we commended the Minister of Economic Affairs for compromise in some social and broader dialogue in article 703. But today, when we do, there are two changes. I will mention the second, I am the first, and I would suggest that I get an answer from the Government, why in Article 67, because today it has been repeated by one debater that it is a novelty. No, this 67th article is circumscribed. And my question follows why Article 67 deletes that members of the Council of Workers also have protection in redistribution, why has it been deleted that, of course, the Council of Workers has previously agreed to do so. The workers elect this member of the world. That's why I want an answer from the government here. And the second comment or second opinion is in article 84 of the proposed law, which is also changing. But if the government had an analysis of 13 years of enforcement, it would have found that this article has brought about an anomaly. For we have reduced or defined the Director of Labour only for an area that cares for the staff and social welfare of workers within a working environment. This term has been given to this staff manager in practice. It would therefore simply be necessary to shift things here and to place the Labour Director at the same level as all the other members of the Governing Board, or those directors who sit inside, but not just to define him as one who can serve as a staff or social worker. In short, one more time. We propose, if possible, and if this is the case for most, there is no rush, it is not a matter of priori opposition to something, but to take into account and take into account the proposal prepared by the Slovenian Workers' Council, the Association of the Council of Workers of Slovenia, where there are about three-quarters of the articles of the current law, which could be changed at this point in time, in view of the new circumstances that all of you are also talking about, that there are new circumstances and that we no longer have a system that we used to have. It would be good to listen to these professional suggestions, but not to take the lead with your left hand, by the way. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] refuse. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is Master Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I'll just keep going where my forerunner ended up. I believe you're in no hurry, but I'm asking why you were in a hurry this spring when you were investing your marriage, if you're in no hurry. For this reason, I will be proposing that this law is suitable for further consideration, supported and I think that everyone in our parliamentary group as well. For we are convinced that the law is a good basis for further consideration and can also be complemented by the comments made by the Free Trade Unions in further work in the National Assembly. I think that we can agree with a number of these comments, in particular that the right to a minimum level of information and consultation must be enshrined. I think that we have incorporated something very similar into the law on cooperation in the conduct of a European shareholder society, if I am not mistaken. In general, it seems to me that the participation of workers in the management is also of better quality for the relationship between workers and employers, especially if this partnership is truly true, then it is easier for all workers who like to go to their work, who are also better rewarded for having a better view of the company's business, as well as for employers who know that their workers are satisfied that their workers are working with their heart and that they do not expect any major problems due to their employees. I must say that these comments concerning Article 4 are in violation of the rights of workers' representatives. See, Article 113 of the Labour Relations Act clearly states that this representative must not be called off or cancelled by a contract of employment, if he does not agree to it, without consent, it says here, "without the consent of the body of which he is a member or a union", without the consent of the Labour Council, he must not be dismissed. This is stated in Article 113 of the Labour Relations Act without the consent of the body elected, not elected by the Management Board, elected by the Council of Workers. That's how I understand it. I think that the law is a good foundation and that we will be able to supplement it at the stage of treatment on the parent's working body in the second reading with the help of trade unions as well as with the help of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you very much. And we already have today's first replica belonging to Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u32	I have a replica. I know that memory is one of the hard things to do if you want it in your head. I would like to remind you, when we discussed the Company Act, that the original proposal was that a single management system should be regulated by the ZGD Act. The debate then put pressure on the need to regulate this matter also with the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management. And then there was a compromise first of all that this will be implemented in the transitional provisions and, once the Workers' Participation in Management Act is completely amended, this transitional provision, which can be applied indefinitely, will be transposed into this law as well, otherwise this law will be completely recast. Secondly, it would be good for Members to know how the Management Board is elected, as set out in the Single Management System Act. There the Governing Board elects the Assembly, not the Council of Workers, proposes the Council of Workers and in the final stage elects the Assembly of the members of the Management Board. And that's why it doesn't make any sense to think about it or not to know it and argue it. Once again, I warn or propose that, given that this compromise has been reached in the transitional provision by the GAG and can be applied to this 703rd paragraph, I shall now use this word of infinity, whether it is possible to take time not to take the basis of a study prepared by the institution dealing with it, and take some time, a month, two or three, to take account of this study and to do so. That's all this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I'm asking Madam Secretary of State if you'd like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a decision that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the participation of workers in management is appropriate for further consideration of all parts relating to the participation of workers in the bodies of the company with a single management system, following the already adopted solutions from the GAG and, to a certain extent acceptable, also upgrading them. In the second part, it brings the most urgent compliance with other legislation. The Government points out that this issue does not fall under this law, since the specificity and heterogeneousness of individual institutions requires the regulation of this area in specific or specific laws. It was not possible to adopt a restriction in the single management system on the appointment of the Executive Director as a representative of the employees only from the representatives of the employees on the Management Board, since, in accordance with the ZGD, the Management Board is a single college committee which can otherwise appoint executive directors. The Executive Directors shall be appointed members of the Management Board and shall remain and shall be members of the Management Board. By appointing Executive Directors, the Management Board may simply transfer a specific segment of its tasks to the Executive Directors, which, in accordance with the provisions of the GGE, are still obliged to comply with the instructions and guidelines of the Management Board as a whole. At the same time, they may also participate as members of the entire Management Board in the management of supervisory tasks. With regard to cooperation or coordination of the law with the social partners. The law was presented on 13.7. this year in the Economic and Social Council. Most of the proposals were coordinated with the social partners. We have taken into account the comments on Articles 5, 6, 8 and 12 as comments from the development partnership, including the articles I have previously listed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you very much. You all got the word, the one you wanted. But time has not yet run out, so I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 24th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Agenda item - This is for discussion on the reply of the Ministry of Agriculture, Agriculture and Food to Mrs Maria Lukac to the Member State's question of the consequences of the reform of the sugar sector in the European Union. At its 21st meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the answer that Mrs Marija Lukačič, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which I also welcome in our midst, has put to the question of the consequences that the reform of the sugar sector in the European Union will have for the Ormož Sugar Factory. I give the floor to Mr Trofenik for an additional explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present, especially to the Minister. My parliamentary question regarding the perspective of the Sugar Factory in Ormož, which I raised at the 17th ordinary meeting of the National Assembly in May, was the result of the publication of a call by the assembly of shareholders of the Sugar Factory on 22 June this year and the proposal for a decision on the cessation of sugar production in the only Slovenian factory. With this publication, the fate of the only Slovenian sugar factory and the far-reaching economic social and environmental consequences of this decision for the northeastern part of Slovenia were put to rest. With a question from the Member States, I wanted to encourage not only a debate on this issue, but a re-examination of all those responsible before the final decision or to encourage the search for an optimal solution to this problem. I received no reply either at the 17th regular session and not at the next regular meeting in June. This prevented the basic purpose of my question. Following strange circumstances, I received a written reply just before the 19th regular meeting of the National Assembly in July, following the decision of the majority owners to close or suspend sugar production after the end of the 2006 marketing year, 2007. Apparently, the government has agreed to the demands of the majority owners to obtain maximum compensation and pay minimum closure costs. As a result, the Government has avoided in all ways the timely answer to the question raised and the possible debate on this issue. To this point, we have available three answers, or the Government’s position on this issue. The first is the written reply from the minister of July, which I can briefly summarise: that she has accepted the factory's closure, that she cannot influence the decisions of the majority owners and that sugar beet growers will receive aid from unpaid payments and from diversification. The second position is the response of the President of the Government, in response to a question sent in September which provides for three possible solutions: closure of the factory, sale to another investor who would continue to produce sugar, and third, most likely, restructuring in the production of bioethanol. The third position is an oral reply from the competent minister to my question raised after five months of delay, which foresees either further production or restructuring in the production of bioethanol. The comparison of these views of the Government clearly indicates a lack of a clear concept to address this problem and that views are adapted to the daily political needs. In all of these positions, the Government consistently repeats the same error when it claims that it cannot affect the decisions of the majority owners on the possible sale of the factory to investors who would like and know how to continue the profitable production of sugar, given the changed market situation, as sugar prices are steadily rising. For the government can have a relatively light impact on decisions of majority owners by appropriately defining the ecological recovery cost framework and other closure costs in accordance with Council Regulation 320/2006. In addition to the Government’s response of 16 November this year, it is clear that the Government is underestimating the ecological component of the rehabilitation. It is not possible to get rid of the impression that this part of the response was written by the factory management, not by the competent state institution or by those who know the actual state of the environment. The second mistake, which the government persistently repeats, is the restructuring of the sugar factory into a bioethanol factory. The production of bioethanol cannot replace the current sugar production in any respect; it can only represent a partial refund at the same time at the risk of negative environmental consequences due to increased cereal needs, in particular maize. It also raises questions about the profitability of such production, given the limited capacity to provide the necessary raw materials and, last but not least, the non-interest of current owners in the production of bioethanol. The third mistake is ignoring the offers of investors who want to maintain sugar production, but the current factory owners do not want to sell them or demand non-marketable purchases because they are obviously counting on a more favourable profit from compensation due to the service conduct of our government. The investors concerned are waiting in vain for any response from the competent ministries, from the month of May when the first bids were submitted to me, which were renewed in July and again in October. Apparently, the government decided too quickly to stop sugar production when this is not necessarily necessary, as the market situation shows. For this reason, I believe that the debate, although "delayed" on this issue, is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Marija Lukačič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u38	Dear Member, honourable Members and other Members! Allow me to explain why I was not present at the meetings of the National Assembly when parliamentary matters are being addressed. Therefore, because the meetings of the Council of Agriculture Ministers for Fisheries and Agriculture coincide with those of the National Assembly when it comes to parliamentary issues. I am always at the forefront of whether I am going to participate in the Agriculture and Fisheries Council in Brussels or in the questions put forward. Given that the issues for Slovenian agriculture have been very important in recent meetings, i.e. wine reform, the Mediterranean Regulation and some other discussions, but I felt that it was necessary for me to participate in the Council of Agricultural Ministers in Brussels, so I was not present at the time of the meeting when the questions of Members were being addressed. This is also why we have tried to answer the question in writing to the Member's question. Nevertheless, I would like to give you a brief account of the history of the sugar factory in Ormož, which began to be built in 1976, by means that were deliberately collected. In 1979, the factory started operating. The Republic of Slovenia, after its independence with active agricultural policy, promoted sugar beet production and increased the production of beet production to 10,706 hectares in 1999 from 3,107 hectares since 1993. In 2006, the beet was grown on 6,770 hectares. The EU sugar market regulation has long been subject to a number of criticisms for limiting competition and the European Commission has therefore drawn up a proposal for a reform adopted in November 2005. Slovenia joined the coalition of ten signatories to the letter sent to Commissioner Boel, in which the signatories expressed their opposition to the Commission's proposal. Slovenia did not support the compromise proposal adopted at the Council meeting on 22 November 2005, as it voted in accordance with the mandate of the Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture that it cannot support price reductions by more than 30% of Slovenia. The compromise adopted was the basis for the Commission's work on the preparation of an appropriate legislative proposal for regulations. Slovenia negotiated a quota of 53,973 tonnes for sugar production at the time of Slovenia's accession to the EU [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] white sand sugar and the right to define raw imported cane sugar of 19,000 tonnes expressed in white sugar equivalent.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u39	Time's up, Madam Secretary. You only checked in for three minutes. I'm afraid time's up. We have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. That's just the way it is. The procedure is the queen of democracy. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Weber has the floor on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u40	Thank you for your word and a very nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The debate on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mrs Marija Lukačič, to the question raised by his fellow Member, Mr Trofenik, on the consequences of the reform of the sugar sector in the EU is certainly extremely important and necessary. Unfortunately, we find ourselves talking again and again when it is probably too late, if not too late. The reform of the common market arrangements for the sugar sector has been known for decades. It is also interesting to conclude the study in 1998; it is a study of Slovenian Agriculture and Trade Agreement CEFTA, where it is written on this area that obviously in the global market the production of sugar beet in Slovenia will not take effect in the perspective. It also says that its future depends on Slovenia's integration into the EU and on the fate of sugar production in Europe in general. So this was one of the areas where we should be extremely well prepared to join the European Union, because it is the only sugar factory in Slovenia and depends on 2,300 farmers, which is a very important and profitable activity. If we look at how things have been going on, we can ask ourselves if we have any agricultural policy in Slovenia. Agricultural policy should be subject to biological and technological crop production, processing and marketing cycles. Agricultural policy and professions are harmonised here. From here on, when the agri-food chain requires more organisational, administrative and economic political and integration knowledge and experience, the direction of agricultural policy is diversified. We are also facing major disparities in agriculture itself. I argue that the imbalances in agricultural policy reflect a common agricultural policy that is becoming more pronounced when we run into the market for agri-food activities. The market cannot be controlled by the way you enforce the principle of division and rule. This can happen in a home garden, but when you collide with market legality, it is large, much too small. We believe that too little has been taken into account and given the opportunity to influence professionally trained personnel, and we are certainly overtaken in the Slovenian space. Thus, in the area of agriculture, forestry as well as the veterinary profession, we have enough to put our visions into place in the integration and implementation of the common agricultural policy. If we just look at the Association of Slovenia as a linkage between agricultural cooperatives and farmers, we find that millions for the rehabilitation of the cooperative system and the strengthening of the society that was expected and necessary were probably a wrong measure. In most of these companies, the food processing industry has acquired an important owner. According to the Cooperatives Act, about 45% of the equity share belonged to cooperatives. Today, we may wonder whether these and its members, i.e. owners, were even aware of the burdens they had taken on themselves or were burdened by the country when they saw and created a policy, agricultural policy, as they imagined in Slovenia. The project was professionally and politically set up, but it soon turned out that it would fail mainly because of the partial views of the members, particularly the business association in this system. And this situation is most reflected in the sugar beet and the Sugar Factory in Ormož. Farmers produce peso with the assistance of agricultural cooperatives in Slovenian fields. They work in a former Slovenian sugar factory this peso, which is located on Slovenian soil. However, by selling the share of cooperatives, the foreign owner began to collect profits, which are also co-created by Slovenian farmers. The latter also supports and subsidises the country, thus supporting the factory owner. So much more important is the reason that in Brussels we should be more determined to keep the Slovenian sugar factory stable. I believe that these efforts have been insufficiently effective, incomprehensible, but above all I feel that the relationship of Slovenian agricultural policy has drifted away from the sugar factory at the moment it acquired foreign ownership. So in politics, there was somehow a thought that already a foreign owner would somehow manage to take care of our factory and our farmers. I think it's extremely carefree, especially if we know that this is a threat to 2,300 farmers. It is amazing that we have failed to realize the greater importance of this factory for Slovenian space and Slovenian agriculture, because we know that in Slovenia we produce much less sugar than we use it, so we do not create surpluses. And if you are not creating surpluses in the common European market, surely our negotiating points in this reform should be significantly greater than those countries that are actually creating surpluses in the European market. It is also amazing that we have not had an impact on the so-called Balkan sugar that has been imported into the European Union past us. There are even indications that from Slovenia exported sugar to Croatia, of course repacked, returned to the Slovenian market. We were obviously ineffective, inactive, and we were passing by, making things worse in this factory. And if we also look at the Minister's response that in all these parts it is also at the last stage of the search for solutions, because it is surprising that we can see that the analysis shows that sugar and beet production is still a profitable activity to raise prices on the European market. And if it is known and accompanied by other owners who want to buy shares in this factory, I do not know why we do not perceive this in Slovenia in agricultural policy and we do not monitor it more actively than we can see from the Minister's response. The answer shows that there has been some coordination between buyers and interested buyers and owners, and this is, in fact, an end to this response and this activity. I think it's too small, too small, and Ormois doesn't deserve it. It is interesting, however, that despite the experience in Ormož, Slovenian agricultural policy somehow helps to bring other food and processing establishments into the hands of foreigners. Here again comes the expression of the basic, first statement I have presented, that obviously there is a great inability for us to integrate all the agricultural stakeholders into the cause that we are actually losing the food and processing industry, and thus we are not only losing these industries, but we are also losing our impact on food security in Slovenia. We expect that, indeed, because of this known information, especially the price of sugar and the fact that it is still a profitable activity, the Ministry itself and the Government will be given clearer answers in the future, with regard to the fate of the factory, and in particular to the question of why an activity that is obviously still profitable, we want to put an end to it, and in fact we have not been able to negotiate even in this case, if we close it, enough favourable starting points for this restructuring to be carried out in an effective way, so that they can have long-term security for both farmers and for the rest of us in this factory and not least this environment in Ormož. Obviously, this is an exceptional situation, at least compared to other countries that may have come into a similar situation, for a significantly smaller profit for the people around Ormož than it could have been if this closure scenario were indeed to be made more precisely, more precisely, and it would not have been that the main profit from all of this would have actually been drawn from the current foreign owner, who, of course, would have been able to withdraw peacefully from Ormož as well. We expect real greater activity and clearer answers in this area and, of course, solutions in particular for the continued security and existence of this region in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Sok has the floor on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, Madam Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! In Novi Slovenija we supported the proposal by Mr Trofenik, a fellow Member, to hold this debate on the Sugar Factory in Ormož. This debate can be well-intentioned and can contribute to some solutions if it is objective and honest, but if not, I fear it cannot contribute to anything. To make it easier for us to understand, I am going to touch on some of the historical facts that now make the situation as we are. The sugar factory was sold to foreigners in 1997. I expected today in this debate that at least the leader of the LDS Group will be present with us, Mr Mag. Tone Rop, this is because this sale decision was taken at the beginning of 1997, and this is when he was the Director of the Kad or Capital Fund and at the same time the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Court. Sales arrangements were held at the beginning of 1997, in the first half of 1997 and then there was a sale in the same year. The contract of sale with a Dutch buyer was signed on 18 July 1997. So much for who is bringing the Slovenian food processing industry into foreign hands so that there will be no mistake. To be precise, on behalf of When it was signed by Irena Starman, and on behalf of the Court, by Director Marko Friends, I must say that, under the statute of the Court, the Assembly and the Management Board had decided at that time, as set out in Article 17 of the Statute. What was the pre-sale property then? 20.8% or, if you like, 24,000 and a few shares were owned by Kad and that much owned by Sod. If you add this up, more than 25% of the capital share of the sugar factory was sold, or 41.6%, which means that a takeover premium could be required at the time of sale. We've heard a lot about this at Mercator's sale. The acquisition premium, which could increase the purchase at the time, was not required, and here I could simply conclude that Mr Mag is. The robbery sold the sugar factory well below the price. But this will be the commission we set up in the National Assembly that sells the sugar factory on the agenda. I'm not going to go into detail about this because I don't have time, but if there's any time left in the end, I'm going to tell you some more details about the sale process. Mag. Robbery once told me to ask Mr. Gantar how it went. What was the role of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food at the time that we gave up sugar factories, as I said, in 1997, and changed ownership? Today, the sugar factory is owned by the Dutch company Cosun and the Italian company. 25% is still owned by Slovenian cooperatives and some are owned by employees. The market order, which we have heard a great deal about, which has been adopted and adopted by the Council of the European Union and the Commission of the European Community, is as it is. Slovenia has had the same impact on the adoption of this market order as the Minister has already described it here twice. I'm not gonna do it again. For the public's sake, I will only say that this market order assumes that the sugar price will be reduced by 36% by the 2010 reference price and the price of the sugar beet at the reference level by 39%. Why such a market order? Maybe some information. The European Union, twenty-five, has now grown between 19 million and 20 million tonnes of sugar, and Europe consumes about 16 million tonnes. If you compare this with our production, 52 thousand tonnes currently in Slovenia, of which it exports about or imports 2 million tonnes, and exports between 5 million and 6 million tonnes, of course with subsidies. What is the WTO's position on subsidising exports, and we also know. And why this new market order? Because the European Union has decided that some desirable situation must be achieved in this segment, whereby production is expected to be between 12 and 13 million tonnes. It is said that a few million tonnes of sugar production in the European Union should be reduced. Therefore, it has also joined the new market order. Of course, this is a fact, as I mentioned earlier, that Slovenia has a quota. When we entered the European Union, this fixed quota was 52 thousand 900 and a few tonnes, 933 tonnes, plus a conversion from raw sugar of 19 thousand 585 tonnes, a total of over 72 thousand tonnes. Sugar consumption in Slovenia is estimated to be around 75,000 tonnes. The quota was therefore satisfactory at the time, and we sought this quota. It is true, however, that the European Union has already cut down a little by this point. Every year, this quota is falling slightly across the European Union, and we have no major impact on this. At the moment, this quota is, therefore, reduced from production in 2006, 2007 to 46 000 850 tonnes of sugar, which is, in fact, similar in all Member States of the European Union. For sugar production, a sugar factory would need - for this quota that we have been allocated - between 7 thousand 500 and 8 thousand 500 hectares of agricultural land. However, there have been problems with agricultural areas all the time, with the exception of two production periods. Thus, in 1997, the sugar beet was sown at 6 thousand 370 hectares, even in 2002 it fell to 4 thousand 414 hectares, and in 2005 it rose to 7 thousand 863 but we also have to include production areas in neighbouring Hungary, there about 2 thousand 300 hectares, and also in neighbouring Austria, I think about 500 hectares. So, at home, in Slovenia, we have faced a problem in this recent period called lack of agricultural surfaces for sugar beet production. When the new market order of the European Union came into force and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government worked together and also adopted a decision to continue the production of the dog in 2006 and the dog was sown on 6,774 hectares. This area was sown because, in all these documents, farmers were also informed that if the sugar plant was closed, the sown hectares would be used in 2006 as reference quantities for the refund that farmers could expect in the coming years if the sugar plant actually ceased to operate. At the moment when the beet is harvested, the factory itself finds that those who have signed the contracts will not deliver the quantities they have provided, mentioning a number of reasons in this regard. One of these was that because they did not know how the matter was going to end, farmers were too weak to prepare the area for crops, that it was unfavorable in spring, and that there were delays in the plantation itself. And something is also that some surface growers have completely ignored, and now they find that at about 150 hectares of surface area this year they will not even collect sugar beet because it is simply not worth it. At this point, the situation is that due to the quota failure, the sugar factory is looking for an additional amount of sugar beet in neighbouring Hungary, which is the question if they will be able to obtain it. That's the situation right now. Those who say that foreigners are willing to buy out a sugar factory, that they say that this sugar factory generates certain profits, I must say that I must thank the Minister for allowing me to attend two such talks at the Ministry of Agriculture. One of the conversations was with a potential buyer from Austria, this is Taschell, this is no secret because this buyer sent his offer to different addresses across Slovenia. In these interviews, however, the potential buyer requested the State guarantee if it were with the owners, this was with the Dutch company Cosun, who was able to agree on a possible buy-out. Both at the Ministry of Agriculture and later at the Ministry of Finance, he was explicitly told that Slovenia could not give such a guarantee because this is absolutely prohibited and impossible by EU measures. Another issue that needs to be said in this regard is that, in addition to the profits mentioned by some, if the factory decides to continue the production of sugar, that in the decommissioning fund over the next three years, the sugar factory has to pay around €22 million, by noting that the closet sugar factory is about three times smaller than the comparable factories in other Member States of the European Union, but is indeed very well equipped and in very good condition, very well maintained and would, of course, be able to continue production in this reduced form. With regard to the restructuring, let me say that at this point in time the preparation is under way, a plan, if there is actually a closure, that this method of restructuring is being developed, that this restructuring plan must be adopted by the Slovenian Government and then by the Slovenian Government in accordance with this plan must ask the European Union for assistance in restructuring. The deadline for the submission of this plan is 31.1.2007 and in fact the owners are working very hard on this plan. This plan should provide for the activities to be carried out in this area, then in this plan they must take care of the social plan of the employees, namely for retirement, for re-employment, for ecological rehabilitation and, of course, for the part called aid to sugar beet growers. All of this is still in the making and none of this is definitively specified. It was a question of how 2,300 sugar beet growers were taken care of. I think the secretary answered that question, so I won't say it again. It's about getting out of the eco no payments plus compensation if they don't produce sugar bees anymore. In doing so, one and the basic question is whether Slovenian farmers are still subject to these conditions, it is said, when the price of sugar beet is reduced and they are compensated for their non-production, they are prepared to produce sugar beet. These conversations with manufacturers, with farmers. They will be part of this restructuring plan. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the only right and really appropriate solution for the further production of sugar and sugar beet production in Slovenia would be only in this direction if Slovenian farmers decided to do so, but not that we are listening here, so that some foreigners would buy the factory, because a factory without raw materials means nothing. However, if Slovenian farmers decided to do so by the same procedure as cooperatives in 1997 and later sold their shares, then this could mean a solution to further production, and thus a guarantee that sugar beet will continue to be collected on these 7,000 to 8,000 hectares. The second, of course, is the question of about 200 employees, which is certainly a very difficult question for Ormož. We would like to see such a solution that all these people will have a job, if not through the processing of sugar alone, to allow the country to restructure with various other plans and to keep them busy at this location, or to take advantage of this opportunity offered by the European Union, at the same time as closure, in this direction, to further employment, which is certainly what we want in the Ormož municipality and would have wider consequences not only for the Ormož municipality, but for the whole of North-Eastern Slovenia. And to conclude. In all situations, however, the worst solution would, of course, be to continue to die on meals if we took some measures in this direction to keep the factory, but it would not be enough for those farmers who would like to process the sugar beet. If such a decision were to be taken, this would, of course, mean that, in the perspective, we would give up these funds that we receive for restructuring in order to give up the funds that the employees can expect, for the social programmes, for their redeployment, for the creation of new jobs, then we would give up this work that farmers get if they no longer produce sugar beet and so on. For this reason, once again, it would be the only and most meaningful decision if we all wanted together, and we in Ormož certainly want to do so in this direction so that Slovenian farmers, farmers of sugar beet, who have their own association and are connected to the community of sugar beet growers, can agree on their own species, offer themselves to buy this factory and then expect the help of the Slovenian government through this line. This would be the right way to solve this situation, but once again it was not the fault of the Slovenian government or the Slovenian state or the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. It is part of the European Union; it is part of the common agricultural policy, which we decided in Slovenia when we entered the European Union. This common agricultural policy, of course, brings benefits on the one hand, on the other hand, minuses. Unfortunately, at this point, as it looks for the environment, such as Ormož, more minus than pluses, and I just hope that this solution will unfold in an appropriate way and that there will be an opportunity for the Sugar Factory in Ormož. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Sušnik has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we supported the request for today's debate because we believe that when we are in the middle of the preparation of the restructuring plan, this debate can bring some new elements, some new moments that will undoubtedly improve the expected restructuring plan if they are well-intentioned. In this regard, we also took into account the fact that you were the policy holders in Ormož during the fateful decisions for the sugar factory in that country, that you had decided on agricultural policy, that you had also decided that Ormož’s sugar factory had become a majority foreign ownership and that you had recently created a agricultural policy in this area, so you probably know the facts that could improve the restructuring programme that is in the making. That is also why we support today's debate. First of all, I would like to say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we fully support the efforts of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to resolve this pressing issue, the problems of sugar production, the production of sugar beet and, as a result, the sugar factory Ormož and the wider area related to the adopted market order, the adopted reform of the sugar sector in the EU. It should be said that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition, under the leadership of Mrs Marija Lukačič, has devoted a large part of its time to this problem during the first two years of operation, and that it is not possible to claim that the problem has not been given the necessary and appropriate attention, aware of the importance, the development of agriculture and rural areas for the undeniable increasingly valued living environment which the countryside represents for our citizens and citizens. The reform adopted or the market order adopted in the EU is for the Ormož sugar factory, for all sugar beet processors, for employees of indisputably new difficult conditions of management. That can't be denied. I would also like to make it clear, once again, that in the SDS Group of Members, Mrs Marija Lukačič, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, in line with the sources adopted, opposed the reform of the EU sugar sector, objected to the introduction of this market order. It is not necessary to recall once again that the National Assembly confirmed the negotiating venues of 18 November 2005 and determined that the highest for Slovenia is an acceptable reduction in the future buying-in price of sugar beet 30%. This was a bargaining ground primarily for producers, several thousand of them, taking into account the already well-known fact that the sugar factory in Ormož is already meeting and facing a lack of raw material, this is not said to be due to relatively low buying-in prices of over-excession for sugar beet production. However, since a higher reduction has been adopted as set out at the negotiating stage, in line with the negotiations already mentioned, the Minister objected to the adoption of this market order, objecting to the adoption of a sugar reform in the European Union. So much to know. It was not objectively possible to predict that the outcome of the negotiations as it was and that the coalition to which Slovenia joined would be a coalition of 13 opposed to reform. Once again, in line with the reform in force from 1.7.2006, the projected reduction in the sugar reference price from EUR 631 per tonne to 404, the most important thing is to go to the price of the sugar beet, which currently averages €43.63, so that by 2010 it will continue to fall to EUR 26, which represents as much as 39%, taking into account what I have already said, and this is the fact that the already existing buying-in price of the sugar beet does not act in a stimulating way on production, does not stimulate our farmers to plant a sugar beet, a thing that needs to be taken into account indisputably, leading to a further decline in interest in sugar beet production, if so. In particular, I would like to point out that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we support all the efforts of the Government and also the owners of the Ormož sugar factory in their thinking, in their planning, in the creation of restructuring measures, whether in the direction of preserving limited sugar production or in restructuring in energy production, if you want bioethanol, but certainly it is an objective fact that the decision is primarily a matter of owners. Here I would like to point out once again the issue of ownership, with regard to the role of agricultural cooperatives, which have been handed over to them in the management of the essential part of the Ormož Sugar Factory, and which have decided as they have decided, at a given time, to face a similar dilemma regarding the ownership of the Ljubljana dairy. It would probably be easier to decide on the restructuring programme if we talked to our home owner here, but "it is too late to ring the bell by the stream", and the fact is that the sale of the Ormož Sugar Factory over the past decade, 10 years ago, is an objective thing that we cannot and is crucial to solving the problem. I think it is necessary to say that the Government has expressed its willingness to help, and the owners to "acquire" the available European funds for restructuring. As we have now heard, owners must prepare a restructuring programme, submit it to the Government, and January 2007 is the last time it can be submitted. In doing so, I would like to stress that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we will monitor and pay particular attention to everything related to ecology in relation to such or other restructuring plan of the Ormož Sugar Factory, which is in line with our efforts, our sustainable development policy. Environmental recovery will receive our special attention regardless of the scenario of events in the future. Certainly, the fate of sugar beet growers 2300 is crucial for the Slovenian Democratic Party, and some of them, we have heard that they are producing sugar beet on 6700 and several hectares this year, that this quantity is such, it is likely to be necessary to look for the reason that everyone was aware that the reference year for possible measures at the time of the end of production in 2006. Everything planned in the area of restructuring, with regard to owners of agricultural areas, sugar beet growers in the Slovenian Democratic Party, is particularly supported and we will monitor closely. I think that the projection is good here and that in the event of the termination it will compensate all producers moving from 151 to 174 thousand dollars from 2009 to 2013, with an additional refund of 109 euros per tonne of sugar to the owners of the agricultural mechanism and with additional measures for farmers being satisfactorily provided. However, it is not possible to forget and ignore the fates of 200 and some employees, we are talking about an area where the employment rate is above average. This is also a problem that we will also give all the necessary attention to in the preparation of the restructuring plan of the Ormož Sugar Factory in the future. I'd like to say the following for the end. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support such a clever, thoughtful, effective way of managing agricultural policy, which results in agriculture not facing unloved events in the last two years, not facing chloramphenicol-related affairs with such or other mad cows and the like. All of this has hurt agriculture. Agriculture and the wider development of rural areas need peace, needs well-known management conditions, needs deliberate and thoughtful action. And the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food’s efforts to tackle the problem of sugar are in line with these objectives. I am confident that today - and I also express this conviction on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members - there will be more constructive and good proposals for resolving this undoubtedly pressing problem in the debate below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Juban has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister! In the LDS Group, we estimate that our fellow Member, Vila Trophynik, has already given the Minister a place to raise a question about the fate of the Sugar Factory and the production of sugar beet. It is true that in the meantime there has been a time that has hit a number of things and that today it may be a little late to be able to resolve matters or talk about them. Nevertheless, it is obvious that all of us have recently assessed that it is important to open the matter up, to talk, as one of our colleagues said, that we see the situation correctly and if there are any other options. The question addressed to the Minister is: the consequences of the reform of the sugar sector in the EU for the Ormož Sugar Factory. I am also pleased that colleague Sok has complemented the part that has made it impossible for the Minister of State for a limited period of time, and we have also been able to find that, at the same time, what is good, he has played quite a few roles, such as the representative of Ormož, the factory, the municipalities, the agricultural committee and the representative of the delegation group, that we have a comprehensive view of the issue. In the beginning, I might not have completed a colleague, but perhaps the dilemmas that arise in public would have been added to some of the data first. One of these is the story of ownership when shares of the sugar factory were quoted on the Ljubljana Stock Exchange and sold transparently. By the way, it may only be said that the other part of the shares that allowed majority ownership in the Dutch sugar factory, and the minority of the Italians, sold immediately after that the cooperatives or owners of the farmers and kept not 25, only 15%, which is very small and, of course, cannot control the Ormož Sugar Factory. Secondly, the debate on sugar and dairy has also been brought to the Committee on Agriculture in the past. The President of the Government assessed these moves as a pre-election politician, which is unusual to us, or the Government's policy in terms of how it behaved in one case or another, in the case of sugar and in the case of Ljubljana's dairy shops. Our starting point in the direction of rescue is in fact the same as the Ministry's stated position: "In the interest of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the Republic of Slovenia, the further production of sugar is certainly in the interest of the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the Republic of Slovenia, as it will bring to the farmer the largest income in terms of the opinion of the owners, and in the restructuring it will be necessary to satisfy the production of such crops which will bring income to the farmer and provide him with social security." The fact is that no production to be completed at this location in Ormož will bring this income to the farmer. Professional services leading the raw materials sector in the sugar factory, that is, that part of the services involved in the production of sugar beet to the warehouse in the factory, have long calculated that various productions for the production of bioethanol or anything like that would bring producers up to four times less income. In fact, sugar beet is a crop that still requires a relatively large amount of human labor, which is good; some may not be aware of it. Unlike all other crops that are maximumly mechanized and bring very little income, such as wheat, maize, and olive oil, etc. The speculation around the surfaces that we have or don't have them, I don't think they're justified. We have already reached 10,000 hectares of sugar beet production, which means that the surfaces are, but that we are facing a decline in food prices in the European and global markets, we are facing and we will also face the dog of sugar. Farmers, processors, merchants will have to accept this. It's only good for us consumers. The falling prices cannot be some reason that we do not have satisfactory surfaces because we have proved that we have them, but we may need to change the thinking around the organisation, technology and education. Here, for example, during this transitional period, which will last for some time, the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber has an important role to play with professional services and has also played an important role in the production of sugar beet, and it still plays an important role in helping to achieve higher and more affordable crops, of course, within ecological standards. Already in the first questions about the further fate of the production and processing of the song, we received different answers from the Government. Mr Trofenik himself mentioned that the first responses were around the scenarios, as a first scenario, to accept the factory's closure, that we could not influence the owners' decision, that interesting payments would be made to the sugar beet processors, which is really interesting in a short period of time and that the crops would be planted with another crop to replace the production of the sugar beet. In the same way or on similar questions, we received a slightly different or perhaps a slightly more promising answer from the President of the Government. When he said that one option is to close the factory, another to sell to another investor, which is an optimistic option, and then some of us were a little excited that this was supposed to happen, and the third again the same as before, restructuring. On this basis, perhaps the ministry or the minister gave us similar views as the promising ones, or those, who gave us the hope that what some claim would continue to be the production of sugar beet is produced with all the positive contributions to agricultural income. In this promising work, some of you are obviously better aware that the discussions with potential buyers, and there is also one part of our questions, whether there was really no possibility that this story would have happened to get a new owner, because several government representatives were talking to the new owner: the President of the Government, the Finance Minister, the Minister of the Environment, the Minister of Economy, the chairman of the Committee himself said that he had spoken to them, some state secretaries - Mr Šircelj and so on, but of course, the Minister. In less cases than the others, which may be interesting. And, of course, nothing happened. Why, in particular, do we ask whether there was any possibility, because then, at another location, what you mentioned, the Ljubljana dairy scenario, where we saw that the Ministry of Agriculture or the Minister convinced us that the owners of the cooperative, the shares of Ljubljana dairy and Kad and the Court of Justice not to sell shares, in the second scenario, the President of the Government and the Minister of Economy insisted that Ljubljana dairy should be sold. Now I do not speculate whether a domestic or foreign owner would be better - this probably suggests to everyone that there would be a better home variant here, and of course then it is fitting to ask again whether this was necessary and whether there were any other options. It is true that the ratings, according to the household, would be said, for the closure of the factory for everyone in the chain are interesting. But on short notice. For farmers, for farmers, for machineryers who perform machine services with extremely expensive machines, some also reach a few hundred million euros, and for a factory or factory owner, it is likely to be over. But in the long run, that's not good. Since what I said at the outset is that sumarum beet and production is suspected, as well as in terms of the national food balance, that we have our own sugar, the matter is even more important in order to have our own sugar beet production and sugar processing. I will conclude with what I said at the outset, that the question of my colleague Trofenik was in place to ask once again what will be the consequences of the reform of the EU sugar sector for the sugar factory, for Slovenian agriculture, or whether anything else can be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u47	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members. There's only a handful of you left that you're willing to talk about, so it's already got a word with your colleague Ziherl. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I welcome this debate myself, because we will look at some of the facts that have happened at that time. If I start at the very beginning of the factory, it was created in the time of the planned economy, somehow by force. Half the quota is to be provided by Croatia and half the quota of the sugar beet is to be provided by Slovenia. And it was because of this factory that somehow did not come to life at first, and after 10 years, it achieved 100% capacity or 100% production. This was followed by privatisation when, perhaps, these changes in ownership were sold by Kad, the Court of Justice and, in particular, by cooperatives, in which the shares of the producers themselves were also sold by a majority share to foreign owners. Foreign owners are then a factory - production was good in the 1990s, perhaps thanks to the administrative regulation of prices, namely the purchase prices of sugar beet and sugar were guaranteed. Therefore, it is not surprising that there was a record in the number of sown areas in 1999, when over 10,000 hectares of land were sown. Then, by the year 2000, these areas were falling considerably, and then they start to grow again and reach about 70% in 2005, it is said, 7,000 hectares. A major change was certainly the start of accession negotiations with the European Union for the sugar beet factory or for the financial flow or material flows. Since then, the sugar beet from Croatia has been unreachable or pricey, since the song from Croatia as a non-member of the European Union has not received EUR-1 or has been so misplaced and thus uncompetitive for production. As a result, the missing sugar beet quotas were produced in Hungary and Austria. The next milestone is certainly the reform of the sugar sector for the years 2006 to 2013. These reforms have led to developments on the global market where food prices are falling. However, it may be even more decisive that sugar cane enters this market, whose production is cheaper and thus severely endangers the production of sugar beet. I must say right now that we have always supported the Ministry of Agriculture's guidelines on the Committee on Agriculture with regard to negotiations with Brussels. In fact, the Ministry of Agriculture acted in accordance with the decisions of the Committee on Agriculture, or there were no comments to depart from this scenario. It is important that Slovenia was at the beginning of a coalition of 10 countries, which was broken down by some measures, as some countries predicted that they could succeed after reforms, according to their production, so they left the coalition. The ministry defended the position that the price of sugar beet should not fall below 30%, but that did not happen. Current data are very inconclusive for sugar beet producers, as sugar prices are projected to fall from €600 to €400 in the coming years, thus falling over €200 per tonne. Perhaps then it is logical under this price scheme that the buying-in prices of sugar beet also fall. Sugar beet will only become less interesting for a market reason and it can happen that there may be too little sugar beet supply and this would endanger the existence of the Sugar factory in Ormož. It was in the light of these developments that a restructuring scenario for the factory in Ormož was developed in the very factory of Ormož, where Mr Director was also signed. Various options are envisaged in the framework of restructuring. If we continue to produce, we should pay EUR 126 in the restructuring fund, and later up to EUR 173 per tonne of sugar produced from our quota and then EUR 12 per tonne of tax from this quota, so our production would be further financially burdened. In the event that we restructure production, we get more envelopes from this restructuring fund, which are linked to the 2006 quota. And just with these financial envelopes, restructuring would be possible. Indeed, one of them is for diversification is EUR 219 per tonne, then perhaps 547 and a half euros per tonne for the restructuring of production. With this money on the recognised quota, it would be possible to restructure or maintain some production, perhaps biodiesel or bioethanol, perhaps even partial sugar production, and in part some other product, then we still get 255.5 euros per tonne from the quota. What can I say to conclude? This restructuring scenario provides real opportunities for us to revive another production on this link, another crop or, in the end, I can only say that I am definitely in favour of all the measures taken so far by the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as all the measures taken by the Minister. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Trophynik already has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u50	Thank you very much. First of all, Madam Minister, I have listened to your apology, although I did not expect it, but I must disappoint you that your apology for your non-participation or unwillingness to answer in person, forgive such an expression, I cannot accept it, and this is your apology to some extent offensive. I would have accepted it if this meeting was in May, perhaps in June, even though it was the last five minutes before the twelfth to open this debate, but you were in the meeting in July, but you did not answer, given the procedural complications. If I said before that he was strange, the forgery of the stenogram was the reason that you didn't answer in spite of your presence, it was the same in September. So please, I've been very fair, as you know, I'll tell you publicly here, I've visited you before asking the question, we've done a long, hour and a half, fruitful conversation, and I don't think such games were necessary. The question was well-intentioned, solely in terms of finding an appropriate solution and in view of your difficulties in this matter, to provide you with support from the National Assembly for further action. That's what I told you back then. And the same conversation was held about July with the Prime Minister of the Government, who, I must say in public, decided very quickly to talk in less than 24 hours. Second. When I asked a question in May, once again, after the publication of the reference and the proposal for a decision on the cessation of sugar production, that is a fact, and it is accepted, I did not know about all the things. I didn't know you had a ransom offer on May 18th about a second option, not just you, at least two of your ministerial colleagues. If I knew that, I'd ask you a different question. About as I put the problem to the President of the Government when I found out about these offers only in July, by chance on the same day that you sent me the oral compensation. Oh, yeah. You're all going back to history. I don't ask about history. I know a lot of history. I am interested in the current measures within the given scope of the option. This option framework is a revised market order which has been adopted. As much as we could influence him, there's another problem, and what we've achieved. That's the point of the problem. In theory, there are two variants: the closure of a factory or the restructuring, or the third, the preservation of products. Let's stay on the restructuring. Here I say that the restructuring option, which is an emergency exit, if there were no other options, was not all that needed to be done. Let's just compare, €38 million is about €37 per tonne in compensation according to the quota of beet sugar. From the correspondence of the agreements, which was accidentally available to me, it is clear that you have agreed to 10% of this compensation for compensation to farmers, although the regulation says at least 10, and only 5% for ecological recovery, that is a total of 15%. That's what I'm asking you. Your colleague in Ireland has reached 32 wholes and a few dozen of this compensation directly to farmers. That's the difference between one and three. And I'm not asking, and I'm not asking, and I'm not trying to embarrass you with responsibility, but these are the frameworks in which the maximum takeover should be achieved. Of the 38 million euros that owners are supposed to receive as compensation for the cessation of production, it looks as if they did not spend 8 million in Slovenia. Some other indicators confirm their expectations or the manner in which they place their purchases. Although the cost of discontinuing production, usually economic operators, is known to be around 70%. And that 70% was achieved by the Irish, and the farmers are not satisfied, and not by many. How, then, should we be satisfied in Slovenia, all of which are affected in this area? The second problem of restructuring. The idea of bioethanol - I myself believed deeply in it. We have made an independent study in a professional institution independent of the owners and management of the factory. Ten thousand hectares under cereals would be needed, by the way, mostly in maize. You know what this maize burden means for northeastern Slovenia. The current load of corn is too high. That's why he showed up, you know, corn beetles, because of the lack of respect for colliding, by the way. Although I am not a farmer, one of the additional weaknesses in the cessation of production is the collapse of the cologne. And, of course, sowing surfaces with monoculture requires protective equipment. And these remedies are, unfortunately, directly contrary to environmental interests, in particular the protection of drinking water. Unfortunately, the Ministry has also made it possible and allowed the use of illicit protections for maize beetles in watertight zones in the most vulnerable areas. Madam Minister, don't mind me, you signed a second-stage decision on your own hand in an administrative dispute, instead of asking the phytosanitary administration to correct, forgive, a surface-written regulation that also covered water protection areas. If we want restructuring to work to the detriment of the environment and human health in order to impose more burden on maize, of course this is a further issue. Back in history, you know, it's interesting. I have no resistance to foreign capital if domestic capital was not good enough. However, I must say that I was not satisfied myself in 1997 when the factory went into foreign hands, by the way, more problematic are the rather greasy profits of the intermediaries who earned it. And I personally stood up for the Gold Stock. Today, with the possession of the Gold Stock, we would have a significantly different influence if we had the will. If we had the will and wanted and knew, we would also be able to properly charge, very domestically I will say, ecological recovery costs and other costs. This is direct, and this is the biggest idea that right here you have given way too much to the current owners, who have made you 6-8 million euros out of 38, as far as they are concerned, to spend on closing costs. It is questionable to talk in the current ownership structure about restructuring, about the arrangement of European funds. Although Mr. Roberti has told you through the newspaper Finance that he is not interested in producing bioethanol. An interested buyer must also be found for the production of bioethanol. However, the world market movement is unfortunately different from that expected by policy makers within the European Community. Sugar prices are rising. And the prices of alcohol are falling. No one expected that. Of course, it's an anomaly, I hope it's not speculation that puts this whole policy on its head. Recently, the price of 20 euros in sugar has increased, and experts predict that around the new year there is a similar jump for 20 euros and after the new year. Therefore, to talk about non-profit under the assumption of a price that is not what someone expected, sorry, is irresponsible at the moment. Of course, in order to maintain the factory at all costs at some past samples, I must completely reject this. Only under two conditions: that it is profitable and that the producers of the dog are interested in the production of the dog. We've been listening to these threats for months, yes, but who knows if the farmers are interested in producing the dog. You know, with agricultural policy such as not personally understanding those who are responsible for it for two years, we have generally used people to aid such or other forms, whether direct payments are direct or that or third or assistance after an accident, because of fundamental accidents, unaware that we have made farmers dependent on ourselves, on the power of the centres, on power of the centres, on power, and that we have taken away their dignity when we have prevented them from living on their own hands and on our own intelligence, but we have used them to being dependent on such or other assistance. The justification obtained from several annual payments is also misleading. After seven years, there won't be any payments. I doubt that there will also be a replacement crop, which would also give comparable income in relation to reduced prices to farmers, in the face of all the problems in this area. Similarly, the apparent satisfaction of the overwhelming part of employees with suitable pensions is social policy. This may be appropriate for those who are ahead of retirement who see another opportunity, but for the most part not. Let me quote one of the workers who calculated his pension in a gross amount of around 11 million, he also calculated how much of it he would have to pay to the country which would finally earn by shutting down jobs. He said, but it looks like there's seven million left, but I'd rather work. This is an example of sober and healthy thinking, and by no means is it a search for comfort in a retirement home. The restructuring, of course, from a social point of view or measured by the number of jobs, is simply not comparable. Today, around 190 people work in a factory, they say there are too many of them, and if it is possible to maintain the number of workers, something should be reduced, but probably not over 150. With optimal conditions, bioethanol can employ about 30 workers or employees, this is a 1:5, 1:6 ratio. From this point of view, of course, we cannot say that bioethanol is a substitute, but it can be complemented. Then some other parameters collapse. Since I will have some time at the end, I would just like to warn or in some way disprove those who claimed that some of us who now requested a debate on this were the creators of agricultural policy or some other. I've never been a creator, not one or the other. I only asked for the debate on my own. Against expectations, the proposal for a debate was supported, and I therefore ask that such references to history be made needlessly, although for those who may not know it is a welcome thing, but I see a lack of ideas and arguments for a better solution and that is why some prefer to resort to the chronology of income, which has also been said too much in the Government's complementary response of 16.11.2006. I would expect more or some innovation in terms of rescue. When I asked the question, I must also stress and say this, a situation which would have allowed for restructuring in the direction of bioethanol was also directly unsustainable or catastrophic. No one wanted to accept the head of the sugar factory - from the executives. The Executive Authority has not adopted the relevant documents enabling this, nor has it adopted a regulation on mandatory mixing of bioethanol and similar things. This was only later settled under the pressure of the issue. Of course, the idea, which at first sight is quite interesting and supported by man, of continuing production conditioned by the interest of songmakers, is interesting, however, that no one has offered to help farmers or dog growers to organise themselves in this direction, except for any daily political statements that cannot be taken seriously. It is interesting, however, that those who could have done so, which were owned by the State, did not do so, had a greater affinity to the property of the media than to the property or investment in the economic sector, which I say is now, and seems to be still viable and profitable for some time. And there is no reason why we should stop and destroy almost 200 jobs and cause even less or greater negative consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u51	Thank you, too. Thank you, Vice President Pavlich, for the morning session. I give my word to Mr. Gezi Juban. Here you go. Member Aloys Sok has the floor. Mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Hello, Madam Secretary! The debate, which is one of the more productive and more reasoned, as we have heard in recent times in the National Assembly, is certainly on the spot. It is a specific area for which we in Slovenia, it is called agriculture, is not and can not care. Clearly, however, there are very few of us in this room who are interested in this matter. The dispute over the shadow of the donkey, or the look of it far back, of course, is not in place. In this story, I am primarily looking for aspects and messages that are important to us for tomorrow, for sowing in the spring and so on. There is no doubt that we are not and cannot care what we will produce at 7,000 hectares in years, the second year when there is no song, if there is no song, or what will happen on these surfaces after these European funds have ceased to flow. I would like to know whether the Ministry and the Ministry have an appropriate programme or an idea that we already know at this moment, what will grow on these surfaces in the coming years - in any way maize is the only and universal solution and the case. Probably not what everyone would want and expect, especially because the income of those who will process these areas will be significantly lower than that of the sugar beet. I will once again highlight the professional aspect already mentioned by one of my speakers, that is, that the dog requires a lot of labour. And when we try to keep every job in Slovenia, especially when it comes to working in a rural area where there is no industry, then these places provided by the sugar beet are even more important. We also care about the jobs provided by the factory itself; 200 cities for Ormož, for that region, are extremely large. And as an environmentalist, in this story, I wonder if anyone in this room has any idea what it will be like to be rehabilitated, what the ecological rehabilitation of this factory will be like. And what worries me the most in this story and what bothers me most is the story of the Ormož sugar factory is similar to the story that we walk in Ljubljana dairy today. There were also cooperatives, unfortunately the first country to sell shares in Kad and Sod. Maybe there's some way I can understand that. However, before we went to sell this small share, I would expect the Ministry to press strongly and decisively on the cooperatives, to meet, to agree and to do something to make this joint appearance on this market against a foreign strategic partner as it should be. Everything that is happening today with regard to the story of Salford and the Ljubljana dairy is not convincing me that it is going in any other direction, but that it is going in the direction of the Sugar Factory in Ormož. I believe that this strategic partner can take over the Ljubljana dairy industry, is effective at some point in time, but the situation in the European and global markets will change very quickly, there is no guarantee that this partner will not be in a similar situation after four, five or more years and, above all, looking for economic results for a short period of time, and that the Slovenian agriculture will, of course, begin to be a funeral bell. And that's what I'm afraid of, so I hope we've learned from Ormož's story what and that we won't make a mistake again in Love. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you, too. Member Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u54	Thank you. We also see several times in the debates that we are an integral part of the common European policy and that we have no significant influence in this policy. I do not think it is right or right to simplify our role in agriculture in the European Union. Above all, it is not right for our farmers, for our businesses, for the food processing industry, because in such situations it is very difficult to plan their development vision. Well, it's not unusual for our domestic agricultural policy to actually go into the framework of always getting as much money from the budget as it needs. So far, at least in the last period, there has never really been a problem - as much as has been demanded, so much has happened. Of course, it is true that we cannot be content with this. This shows that there is no real creativity, that there is no right thinking about what we want in the field of agriculture in Slovenia. And it would be good if we could get at least more accurate information on this in this debate - because, for example, in 2004, I think we had a debate on the Committee on this reform on 16 December, in one of the materials related to restructuring, it was recorded that the rehabilitation of the factory on environmental requirements and employment would take place within the framework of the scheme at the level of the Member State. But we have this scheme, I ask. The scheme would be financed by 50% of the budget of the European Union and 75% of the European Union's budget would contribute to areas falling under objective one. The individual scheme is expected to last for at least 5 years. Well, and if I only attach myself to this latest event from December 2004 to today, it is expected to be the direction in which events can develop, so I wonder whether we already have clearer information this instant than in 2004 on the scheme, on the rehabilitation of the factory and on the resources we can acquire, and on how these funds will actually be invested in restructuring if it does occur. I think we should have all the scenarios on the table today, including the restructuring, including the maintenance of production. I also ask whether anyone has thought about, say, I don't know, that one of the very suitable institutions of the Association of Agricultural Economists of Slovenia has engaged to a greater extent in making these solutions to come up with these proposals, and whether we have actually done so is one of the questions that I am specifically asking the Minister in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u55	Thank you, too. It's supposed to have a magic word. Milan M. Squeakle. [[He's not here.]] Member Franz Sušnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Once again, perhaps more on my behalf, I would like to say that I supported the request for a debate on the response of the Minister of Agriculture mainly because I expected that, in today's debate, we would again stress that people belonging to the political option or who have been in the political option for many years leading the agricultural policy in Slovenia, that there would be new solutions to the preparation of scenarios for resolving the situation resulting from the introduction of a new sugar market order in Europe in connection with the threatening closure of the Ormož Sugar Factory, with the loss of jobs with the inability to sell sugar be sold or the need to restructure 2,300 farmers because they will have to plant something different and sell something else. Unfortunately, we must find that what the Minister has already said and which is part of the Government's efforts to prepare solutions towards the worst case scenario, this is the complete closure of the sugar plant, that there was no quality contribution, and from this point of view I am disappointed or my expectations which I had at the time when I had a proposal for a decision to hold a debate are not met. Here in the debate we have only heard criticisms at the expense of agricultural policy, at the expense of the fact that it did not happen, but there were no constructive proposals and comments in the direction of a solution. From this point of view, I will be even more selective in deciding on similar questions or discussions on similar questions. In any event, when we identified ourselves as a market economy, we were probably also aware of all the consequences of the introduction of the market economy, and in this respect it is also necessary to assess this and to conclude that farms will produce sugar beet if they sell it at a price that will cover the costs and make any profit in order to allow owners to process sugar beet and sell sugar if there is any profit. Solutions and predictions must be sought within these frameworks. If what Mr Trophynik has announced as a proposal for today's debate that sugar prices will be rising, then I don't think we need to be afraid that everything will be okay. Unfortunately, however, his claims put on the head of the market order, I have already said there. In the market order, European agricultural policy has stated that it will reduce sugar prices by 36%, or sugar beet prices by 39%. These are facts and it is unlikely that the process will not go in this direction, it is unlikely. In any case, any other predictions may represent false hopes that cannot be the basis for action and planning in the future. That is why I think that this adopted and established reform needs to be adopted and the established market order taken as a fact and plans of action for the most black scenarios, and this is the end of sugar production, and then we will see how it goes. However, I think that the restructuring programme should also provide for the use of equipment that we have heard that in the sugar factory Ormož is in good condition, well-maintained, well-preserved and undoubtedly also an area or industrial zone that will exploit the industrial area, the factory area with all the quality infrastructure remaining after possible closure, that is the worst if restructuring does not occur after the possible closure of the Ormož Sugar Factory. However, I stress once again that all attention must be paid to the ecological rehabilitation of the area, because the environmental impact of sugar beet production is not already negligible. In response to what the Socialist Group of Members has stated in its position, when it has defamed or criticised for quite a long time the current Government's agricultural policy, I must say that a number of activities have been carried out in these two years to deal with the quality and good management of agricultural policy, but I would like to say that 300 regulations, 8 laws, 85 government regulations, 207 sub-laws of the Ministry have been adopted in the field of the normative programme, and 60 are ready for reduced treatment in the Government or for publication in the Official Journal. In doing so, I would like to point out in particular that during this period we have eliminated the most protruding things, such as animal health checks in domestic transport and, more importantly, the area of meat and milk processing on farms has also been regulated. Those superstandards that were the most corrupt and most hindered in the development of agriculture were eliminated. Not to say that there has also been a serious disturbance in the area of complaints, that there has been a marked shift in the area of denationalisation. However, most importantly, the Ministry has drawn up a National Strategic Rural Development Plan, which [[End warning sign]] The Slovenian countryside has a billion EUR 150 million and 276 billion of potential aid. I would like to highlight the adopted National Forest Programme, the National Strategic Plan for Fisheries and the agricultural risk management system for agricultural production insurance, which also represents a quality and new shift [[End warning sign]] In this area, the state co-finances insurance premiums and could also be listed. I think it was the wrong purpose of those who tried [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u57	Comrade Sušnik, your time is up. Thank you, too. A colleague of Trofenik signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Mr Sušnik, I do not say that prices are rising as opposed to the expectations of EU policy makers on sugar, but this is happening on the market. I specifically, if I were to listen, say it's some sort of anomaly. This is the fact that all year round they are growing, that there is a lack of sugar, although on the other hand they are supposed to be surpluses in the European Union and so on. This is a fact that needs to be recognized and recognized. It's nice to keep these things going in this direction, and that calls for answers. Of course, your expectations that all those whom we have proposed or who I have proposed will offer recipes are, to say the least, unrealistic. Some of us are not in the role of creating politics or anything like that. However, in any case, I am in favour of reconsidering the decisions already made, but I am afraid that, despite the reflection, some steps can no longer be reversed. This is exactly what I warned you about - why we only agreed to 10% of the compensation and 5% of the environmental compensation from 38, which means three times less relative than in Ireland. I stand for everything as much as it is in Ireland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you. I give my word to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I'm going to try to answer the most important questions, because there's been a lot of exposure, so I'm going to go straight ahead. Slovenian agricultural policy is an integral part of the common agricultural policy and depends on the majority vote of the Member States. Slovenia is obliged to respect the European acquis and therefore cannot have its own agricultural policy, but can only create its own destiny within this framework. The Balkan Regulation was mentioned. This is an asymmetric agreement adopted by the European Commission in 2003 and we were obliged to respect it at the time of our entry into the European Union. Regardless of when the problem of large imports of sugar from Croatia occurred on the markets of the European Union, of course, most in Slovenia, we asked the European Commission to limit or fix Croatian quotas. This has been served on us and this quota has been fixed to Croatia by the European Commission at 180.000 tonnes. Regarding the negotiations between the Ormož Sugar Factory owners and potential buyers, I have to say that I have been available to any potential buyer who has volunteered or wanted to do so and have a conversation with him. I must say that they were very correct majority owners of the factory and that they had many times already had and also wanted to have talks with me, but I did not have the opportunity to be able to engage directly or specifically in negotiations between potential buyers and between current owners, the majority owners of the Netherlands. That is why I do not understand or have no concrete answer why there was no agreement between Taschell holding company, Austria, and among the Dutch owners of the Ormož Sugar Factory. But the informal information is that they didn't come along with the prices. Apparently, the Austrian potential buyer offered less than the current owners can get from the restructuring fund offered by the EU. I think it's the most important and crucial fate of a sugar beet processor. I must say that I have been directly in contact with individual major farmers during the negotiations. From Brussels I was on the phone all night with representatives of farmers, this is the Sugar Peas Association, and all my codecisions were their decisions. These growers will receive, as has already been said today, certain entitlements or so-called compensations or payments, if you wish, in 2007 of 157,000 tolars, in 2008 of 167,000 tolars and in 2009 and by 2013 of 167,000 a year, please. Let me say that the difference in income over expenditure on the hectare of the produced pessimus or so-called profit is 140,000 tolars. This means that our farmers will get significantly more than if they were to produce a sugar beet, whether or not they are producing a sugar beet. At this time, of course, our farmers must be restructured into another production. I would like to say that, although sugar production in the Ormož factory is really being discontinued, that the current owners do not withdraw from Slovenia, they do not sell or leave. They will ask for restructuring assistance from the European Commission, which they belong to. They were at my house yesterday. We agreed, and all three options are still active, namely restructuring into bioethanol, they have a new idea that they would have a logistics centre for fruit and vegetables, which I think is economically justified in this part of Slovenia, and in the production of fish in lagoons that already exist. Farmers will also receive considerable funding for diversification, and Slovenia will receive €11 million, as has already been said today, of which €5 million to farmers. This part of the assets, as its capital contribution to the new production, could be invested in the production, as I mentioned earlier, and are prepared to be established by the owners from the Netherlands. It was said about potential [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u61	Madam Secretary, your time is up. Thank you. The text is also given by the proposer, Mr Villa Trophynik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u62	Thank you. I am very sorry that the Minister has come into time twice because this will not help any quality further discussion or conclusion, so I will also limit myself to some information or facts that need to be taken into account. I'll start at the end. Madam Minister, I am very pleased if the owners have changed their position, but it is questionable to believe. In a written document they tell you that they are not interested in bioethanol, they confirm in an interview with Finance. I don't know what it was like to suddenly land so unwittingly. Thinking about how time haunts me, growing fish in lagoons, at least you who know the terrain should throw away the apriori. This is not serious because just with lagoons there will be the biggest problem of recovery and environment and let yourself obtain relevant information from the competent services and do not let anyone make fun of you and from Slovenia and from everyone who lives there. As far as investors are concerned, one of the companies in Austria is always mentioned. This is one thing, but the first appeared domestic customers from Ljubljana with the bioethanol program, but because you gave in to the owners too much, they acted so rudely that at the agreed meeting, representatives of investors were allowed to wait outside the factory door. Of course, such an investor withdrew and was Slovenian, well known to the Slovenian public, a prominent investor who first came before asking my question with the idea of buying a factory and restructuring this factory in the production of bioethanol and even something else, even on more modern bases than current owners predict. Therefore, from the point of view of the owners in terms of restructuring, it is roughly as not taken literally, with your answers to change from day to day, just as daily needs are appropriate and necessary. The debate about this kind of disappointed me. Indeed, part of the discussion has been turned into an assessment of agricultural policy, appropriateness, inadequacy of the present, former, and I do not know which. I have to basically say no. My purpose wasn't that, and it never was. There are other opportunities and other opportunities for that. This is a concrete case that deserves consideration in this space in the highest legislative body, by nature and size, only in terms of finding solutions so that it is not too late. I am afraid that due to the recklessness and subjugation of certain decisions or procedures related to these daily political needs, we have already missed out, but I think, Madam Minister, that you will have to give some radical thought to some decisions and decide also to step back. I am disappointed that in the oral answer, in addition to my question when you answered, you denied the existence of an agreement, it made me very disappointed. Although your partner, Mr Roberti, has denied you in his press statements, which he has not denied to date that there is an agreement. I have also received confirmation from government representatives and believe that many have seen this agreement, so I advise you not to deny the existence of an agreement which, I believe, is inconvenient for Slovenia, if I say so. And this is a fundamental problem that you do not know how to get out of the provisions of this Agreement and that you may therefore lack the firm political support of other colleagues in order to make this right. I see this as a fundamental problem, because it was just looking for or buying some kind of social peace. I believe that the problem with reference areas is one year ago in relation to the surface, but today's depiction of the problem of agricultural areas planted under the pesos in the past is partly an objective problem all the time, and partly the cause of such a problem elsewhere. Despite this problem, this factory has been doing well! This non-reliability display was created artificially. In 2004, instead of EUR 10 million in capital withdrawal profits, the factory showed a negative result - this is legal, there is nothing to report, but this is a fact. This is said to be despite these conditions of management despite problems with surfaces, despite problems with droughts and similar things, because they can work well and because the factory is in good condition, of course for the production of sugar. By the way, someone is stressing this as an argument for further restructuring cases. To those who say so, I would suggest that they read the regulation. The Regulation requires the decommissioning of all plants serving sugar production and, if restructuring occurs, very, very little remains. It is interesting, however, that you have landed, at least according to Mr Roberti's statements and by correspondence, which is available, that the problem of decommissioning is the problem of the Republic of Slovenia, not the owners. This is an interesting solution in the light of a regulation that you know more than one, some of us know a little less, but so much so that we can read what this obligation is. Therefore, it is clear to me that in the complementary response that you have sent us, you are neglecting or trying to overlook ecological recovery. Because you've taken over the burden of ecological recovery or the owners have restricted it to you, only 5%, they're willing to pay the compensation. Environmental recovery, however, will be one of the fundamental problems because it is not as pink as it looks with ecology and with these issues. This is one of the main problems in the event of restructuring. Now, of course, as I personally told you on your visit, I don't want to be a lobbyist of any foreign investors. However, the culture of business requires, at least from the executive power of one country, to write at least two sentences after so many months before some who speak on behalf of the Government and the executive authorities make fun of investors who were interested in buying. If the offer is poor from the point of view of the government or the ministry, give them two sentences to make it unacceptable. May 18th - today we are on November 24th, and three other terms were in the meantime, and no answer. Maybe there'll be another offer. Of course, you have just found that the current owners who do not want to produce sugar and the potential investors who see the perspective of sugar production under the prescribed conditions could not agree on the price - because this is a fundamental problem. But here I have to make a critical statement because you have unduly burdened the costs of closure. I would not like to talk about millions of euros, how foreign experts appreciate the market value of the factory, how informal the offer of owners, how much the offer of potential investors is, you know, the difference is only in the amount that Slovenia could not charge the costs. If Slovenia were to charge costs at an appropriate level, like comparable countries in the European Union, I am sure the owners would immediately decide to sell because it would be more favourable. But this difference, this delta is for the benefit of, but now really foreigners, even though the ownership of capital in no way bothers me, and to the detriment of Slovenian farmers and workers employed in the factory. And since this is an exceptional case when the whole industry closes or closes, I would also expect the Government to take an understanding approach to the social programme with possible tax relief. That there will be no tragic situation for the state budget to profit because 190 or 150 jobs will be abolished. It is indeed necessary to recognise that the owner in a situation like this, and because the financial situation, the amount of the deductions and the agreed costs, obviously with the State, enable him to pay more than usual to the workers. Of course it's a double sword. As a result, workers are losing their right under our legislation to compensation for the period of unemployment, which must also be calculated into a net effect or into a social programme. I would expect that, since the average age of employees is around 48 years and the average working age is 24 years, most of them have spent almost all of them in this factory alone, so that the State or the competent authority can also consider any changes, tax or prejudices under this heading. You know, the discharge, as one of the sober and affected workers wrote, 7 million 800,000 tolars sound good and sees good. But when you consider that it will expire within a certain period of time and that you will lose your job, you would rather take your job than your retirement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u63	Thank you, too. All the discussers on the basis of the list of applicants received the floor. And we have about 50 minutes left to discuss. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a procedure for further discussion. Here you go, please. Three Members and the Minister have joined in the additional debate. I suggest, Madam Minister, that you answer in the end. Each speaker has 5 minutes. Member Borut Sayovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Secretary! At this point, when we have a chance and some time, I would like constructive answers to the questions about how you think about what you can sow on these surfaces after we stop receiving the European rent and when these benefits are not so favourable. And above all, do you think that you can have stories, the Ormož Sugar Factory and the sale of Ljubljana dairy, which is now happening, in the end, a common bad point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u65	Thank you. Member Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, my respectable colleague Willy Trophynik, the thought you're playing with, I find it very dangerous right now. You say, a factory or a country should charge this and that, lower the price and take the factory into the hands of another foreigner over this reduced price. Here I presented the position of the parliamentary group and wondered what would happen if the potential foreigner, the owner of the factory closed down and left farmers without compensation, left the workers without compensation and also the rehabilitation of the facility without any compensation and no money for restructuring. Therefore, we must approach this very carefully and, of course, this way of thinking seems gravely wrong to me. Here you stated that, even the boundaries to someone, I would say, an accusation of falsification of data, if the profits made were seen as a negative business. Please, let's not operate on this because we don't know that. You say that due to the lack of ideas and strategies, we find ourselves in the chronology of events. The chronology of events is the only culprit for talking about this today because the factory has come to own foreigners and is not the offer of a foreign owner to the country of Slovenia, but can only be the owner. There is only one intermediate article here that cannot do much unless this potential owner decides to sell the matter further under such or such conditions. Once again, am I setting this dilemma, are Slovenian farmers prepared to produce sugar beet under these conditions? They have an association. This association hasn't come forward yet. As Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, I get many initiatives, many applications for meetings, including vendors of the Ljubljana Milk Shops, we met on the Committee, colleagues, we discussed them. On the other hand, their President is Mr Jurša, there has been no initiative. They get these resignations, as the minister said. At this point, it is obvious that they have calculated that this is enough and that they are satisfied with it. They get it by 2013, and then they're probably counting, and something's really going to happen. And I am particularly interested in what will happen on this site, so that the country can help us with these additional programs. I'd expect the secretary to answer that. I'm interested in the fate of these 190 employees. It is true that some of these compensations will be, and I therefore agree that the Ministry of Labour can also make any changes to the law in this direction, and I also appeal to the chairman of the committee who is leading that any legislative burden in this direction could be adopted in this legislation, saying that these social programmes would be as favourable for employees as possible. Of course, I'm worried about what happens to all these objects on this site. By which programs the country can help us that these objects in the part that will remain will be given some additional purpose, through which these workers who will actually lose their jobs will be given their opportunity. And it's not just 190 employees, it's also a lot of those who are casually involved in the campaign itself, which month gets them during three, four months' work for another 30 to 40, then there's one whole part, say, of the transporter owners involved, and three, four months carry the sugar beet and make a lot of money on it. So it's a whole series of activities, and if we lose it in Ormož, it's not just Ormož, it's the whole part of northeast Slovenia, it's very big. And here I appeal to the Government to help us as much as possible in this process and to try to find alternative programmes as long as this restructuring plan goes in this form and as provided for in this market order and Directive of the European Union. This is now a fundamental issue and this is ahead of us, which needs to be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u67	Thank you. Member Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u68	Thank you. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I have really talked about the fact that agricultural policy is not defined in Slovenia, but I have defined it in a very simple way to get as much agricultural funding as it requires, that is one level of agricultural policy. The second part you presented, colleague Sušnik - regulatory adoption of regulations is indeed on the move. However, there is no effect or measurement of the effects of such funds, or if I am concrete and I attach myself to today's point, we have already discussed in 2004 that we need a scheme at the level of the Member State that will, for example, come into a situation where a sugar factory needs to be restructured. Do we have this scheme, and what does this scheme entail? This is an integral part of the agricultural policy, which I have not heard today that we have, this scheme, and that we are even thinking about it intensively. The second thing is, today's debate would be good if we heard about how we imagine an agri-food chain in Slovenia. If this is in such a way that the government sells a share of Ljubljana's dairy just because it has a small share in Ljubljana's dairy, that it obviously cannot replace the management of Ljubljana's dairy, then this is something very far from serious agricultural policy and these criteria are really badly crystallized, we can talk about not actually having it. I miss that story. And today, we could also have a more substantively qualitative debate if we had this scheme ahead of us, and also, somehow, because we are obviously not going to exhaust all of these options in this debate today, I expect, for example, the Committee on Agriculture to obtain a concrete scheme and continue to discuss the rehabilitation of the sugar factory in Ormož or the restructuring of the whole of agriculture in this area, because obviously this scheme either does not exist or is such that it is not actually an attempt to be presented in public. And this part of agricultural policy is the one we are missing in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you. And I invite Minister Maria Lukačič to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u70	There was a lot of talk about ecological recovery. It is a fact that ecological recovery will have to be carried out in accordance with European Union and Slovenian rules. The rehabilitation programme is approved by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and I assure you that this will be done in accordance with the rules. With regard to these 10% which are intended for farmers to pay for the unamorted part of machinery. We agreed with farmers at the beginning of last year that if sugar and sugar beet production continues in the 2006-2007 marketing year, farmers will only be willing to accept 10%, because they will be able to increase their production surfaces in relation to the previous year and thus provide better conditions for obtaining restructuring compensation. This was the decision of Slovenian farmers and not my decision. All the funds earmarked for the reform of the sugar sector are derived from the restructuring fund, which is said to be from European funds. Nothing here is financed by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. To all those who think it would be possible to continue the production of the sugar beet, I can say sadly that Commissioner Belova expressed her great dissatisfaction on Monday in the world of agricultural ministers because the reform of the sugar has failed to achieve the desired effects, production has decreased by only 700 000 tonnes of sugar and the target is 5 million tonnes, so she announced to the Council in January a proposal to reduce the linear reduction of quotas for all Member States producing sugar beet. This means, as Mr Sok has mentioned, that it would be a decline in food and it is better to set goals so that we can see that this is not likely to be an economic production of sugar beet and that we are going into a form of restructuring that will provide economic production for our farmers. I had interviews with a representative of the factory yesterday, who again assured me that the objective of restructuring in bioethanol had not failed and that they were very inclined to establish a logistics centre for vegetables in part of Northeastern Slovenia. This seems a very appropriate programme to me, and I will also advocate for it to be realized in this part of Slovenia. There was also talk about the organisation of farmers. I think that as well as well-organised sugar beet growers in Slovenia and as many interviews as they did with me - in no other agricultural sector as in this one. There was talk about the potential areas Slovenia has to produce for sugar beet. It does have enough of them, especially in northeastern Slovenia, but you know that production has declined from 10,000 hectares to, last year, 6,700 hectares. This is due to the fact that this production has been abandoned mainly by smaller farmers with more fragmented surfaces and a single working piece less than one hectare. Of course, as the price of sugar beet dropped, the cost of production deteriorated and smaller farmers began mass abandonment of sugar beet production and had to be restructured into another production in the last three years. With regard to individual restructurings, I can say that we import wheat 50% according to consumption and that we have the ideal opportunity to take care of our own supply of wheat in this part of Slovenia, that there are quite a few Slovenian investors who want to redirect themselves or establish the production of the hemp industry because they are talking to the pharmaceutical industry and the material for one side of the textiles, on the other hand for insulation material. That we already have quite a few Slovenian investors who would like to establish this production and talk to a association of sugar beet growers. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I am also concluding this debate and thus this item on the agenda. But before I interrupt the session, a procedural proposal. Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Since the Minister is still here, allow me to state my next procedural decision or option. Madam Minister said the things discussed at the closed meetings of European agricultural ministers - a very important matter. I think that today's public debate, an open debate, has in fact shown how more can be achieved in the area of reform of the sugar market by better shaping Slovenia's agricultural position. That is why we will propose to the Liberal Democracy Chamber when the Government prepares the position or position of the Minister of Agriculture for the next meetings, where quotas will continue to be limited to reach the so-called European reduction target of two million tonnes, in order to address this at a special extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Agriculture. I hope that this will be done and that at a special extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Agriculture we will give much clearer instructions to the Ministry of Agriculture, how to better represent the interests of the Republic of Slovenia and, above all, the producers in the field of Ormož. In fact, this is important because today we cannot adopt any formal Council decision. Therefore, the only option now publicly forecasting is this, and I hope that, sir, whoever will then be president of the Committee on Agriculture and whoever will then be able to come, to explain better than today what Slovenia will do. I think there is a lot of possibility, I suggest that you also consult the Minister for the Economy, whether there is a possible or a different form of this or that aid, so that we do not discuss whether we are going to grow fish in some filthy lagoons or whether there will be a logistics centre there. I think that Slovenia must have a clearer position here in relation to the discussions led by the Minister, and that, if the Government itself does not, we must look for a position here in the National Assembly. I hope that the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture will make this meeting so organised, in such a way that Slovenia will be better prepared to represent its views than it has before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u73	Comrade Squeakl, thank you for introducing us to the purpose of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. As you know, this was not a procedural proposal, plus this point at which the Minister was invited, we have already concluded. This concludes the meeting of the assembly, which we will resume in half an hour. That means 2:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u74	Dear Members and Members! Please take your seats! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. In accordance with established practice, I ask all of you to verify the functioning of your voting devices. We continue with the 21st item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the participation of workers in management, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 6. [[55 members voted in favour.]] [[Against six.]] The bill was adopted. I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated for the second reading of the home working body. We are moving on to the continuation of item 2 of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. On Wednesday 22 November, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been adopted to the draft law, it is not possible to submit the amendments in the third reading of the amendments, and therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving on to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that due to the parental working body of the amendments adopted, the law would not be inconsistent. Explanation of voice. I am opening the procedure for explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. Here you go. I call upon the Ambassador, Mr. Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u75	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. So we have already stated firmly, when we consider this proposal, that we oppose these changes or this novel, because we believe that there is no serious need for this law to be changed in this direction, in order to tighten the conditions for obtaining citizenship and to introduce into the law as it is proposed. And we regret that the proposaler did not listen to our proposals so that they could make this entry as a reflection of today's time. The LDS can't agree to any changes that exacerbate the conditions for punishment, nor can the conditions regarding the duration of the legal community. We are convinced that it is through this law that we are somehow demonstrating our inexperience and non-Europeanism if you want, even though some countries, including the European Union, have rather strict laws regarding citizenship, but are rarer among them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u76	Thank you, too. Is there any other desire to explain your voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 16. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 9th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the draft feed law. On Wednesday, 22 November, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the proposer, that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law for the third hearing, and since, pursuant to Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure, the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not notified me that the law would not be harmonised, we are moving to a full vote on the law. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, all of whom voted in favour. [[Everyone voted for it.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to a follow-up to the 12th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications. On Wednesday, 22 November, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the proposer of the law, that the third examination of the draft law would be carried out at that meeting on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. At the table, however, we received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which discusses the need for a harmonisation amendment. The proposal for a decision will be that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare a harmonisation amendment by Tuesday, on which we will vote on Tuesday in the framework of the votes. I also hereby adjourn the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which we will continue as stated on Tuesday, 28 November 2006, at 10 a.m. Nice weekend and a nice day ahead.
