ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mr Drago Koren alone. We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the System of Payments in the Public Sector. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give my word to the government representative for further explanation of the bill and at the same time welcome it. Here you are, Minister Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Messengers and Members! Public sector wages cost us about 700 billion tolars each year, and this is the framework that we are talking about today. Initially, I would like to stress that today's two proposals, i.e. amendments to the Law on the System of Salaries and the Decision on the salaries of officials, cannot be seen in isolation, but must be seen in the context of the overall regulation of all salaries in the public sector. The public sector's wage reform was launched in 2002. The Wages Act laid down some basic principles, namely the principle of uniformity of regulation for the whole public sector, the principle of transparency, and set itself the objective of eliminating wage imbalances in the public sector. Since 2002, this salary reform has remained a dead letter on paper to date - we have a law that has not yet made any changes in reality; although the law itself is good and the principles followed are very positive. The law provides for such a system of wage regulation in the public sector. The salaries of officials shall be governed by a decree adopted by a national assembly uniform to all holders of public functions. The salaries of directors in the public sector are regulated by a government regulation already adopted by the government last year and will enter into force as from 1.3 this year. And everything else, i.e. the salaries of public servants, a little over 150,000 public servants, are regulated by collective agreements. First, with a collective contract for the public sector, where wage classes will be set for typical indicative jobs - there will be teachers, doctors, playwrights, officials and everyone else in the public sector - and then there will be jobs in collective agreements of activities and professions. The government decided that, at the intense pace of negotiations for the conclusion of a collective agreement for the public sector, priority offices pay directors and officials. Why? To show for the first time that we are serious about the reform of the wage system in the public sector and that, therefore, those segments that are not linked to collective negotiations can and want to be regulated as soon as possible and as effectively as possible. Secondly, because, in particular, there have been anomalies in the wage segment, which the public has also pointed out to which the media have been alerting, to so-called "excessive wages". Thirdly, because we want to establish orientation by regulating the highest wages, i.e. the functional and principal salaries, and also set a starting point for the continuation of negotiations for the conclusion of the public sector collective agreement. And that is the context, 700 billion tolls from public cash registers at the annual level, so it is necessary to be particularly careful and accountable in regulating the highest wages, so when we regulate our salaries. The amendment of the Wages and Decrees Act and the next item on the agenda are complete and virtually impossible to deal with without each other. The enforcement of the decree is also linked to the enforcement of amendments to the law. The law provides for the establishment of a system for officials with effect from 1 March. It foresees the uniformity of the system of functional salaries, this is the so-called regulation of the salaries of all public function holders in one decree, transparent and uniform, and provides for a simple composition of wage holders of public functions. The salary of a public official consists of the basic salary and the work-life allowance. Justice officials, judges and prosecutors are said to have the structure of salaries such as public servants, doctors, teachers and others. It consists of a basic salary, which evaluates the function, of supplements that come into consideration only in the event of some exceptional circumstances and cannot be a rule anymore and of part of the salary for work performance, which is a novelty that is now being operationalized by the amendment of the Law on Judicial Service, which will be before you at this meeting of the National Assembly. In escalating, that is to say, in the annual coordination of pay grade, statutory officials, we share the fate of public servants. Therefore, there are no different bases for wage-setting, but wages are coordinated in accordance with the agreement reached at the annual level by the government on the one hand, on the other hand, by the representative public sector unions. This is the essence of amendments to the law on the public sector wage system. A minor change is also necessary in order to effectively implement the new system of directors' salaries with 1.3. The law already contains a security guard that allows certain directors in the public sector to be reduced from 1.3. wages, but we wanted to make this even clearer so that there would be no conflict in practice and complications. The law and the decree are therefore a whole package and bring, as a whole, a reduction in the functional salary, mainly from the reduction of the work-life allowance by 0.5% to 0.3%. I therefore need to explain in particular why we are proposing to reduce this labour-time allowance. It should be said that today, of course, the current annual work-life allowance, i.e. for the year of work, is 0.5%, but public servants receive this allowance on their basic salary, while officials receive this allowance on their entire salary. The public employee allowance of 0.5 per basic salary represents approximately 0.3% of the total salary. For a functioner, 0.5 is 0.5. Therefore, it could be said that this supplement is 0.5 compared to that of officials and public servants of officials' privileges, for all except mayors. These have a calculated supplement for the working age of 0.5 on the base salary. The financial effects of this change will, of course, be positive. Together with the reduction of some wage classes in the decree, savings will be made in 2006 at a level of 550 million tolars, savings over the whole period of public sector wage coordination, i.e. by the end of 2009, somewhere at the level of one billion tolars. However, taking into account the assumption, which is very realistic and also the only option for us to implement wage reform in the public sector, it is that each year we will spend approximately half of the annual escalation, i.e. the increase in wages due to inflation, on paying into a special fund to address the imbalance, and this savings amount to about 4 billion dollars. Part of this saved amount will, of course, be channelled into paying for the additional work performance of judges, because once again, in the judiciary, the structure of wages changes so that there will be no more balancing. This means that judges will also be paid after performance or after efficiency. The level of wages at the end of the coordination period, i.e. at the end of 2009, will be based on this assumption, i.e. that 1.25 or after the conservative option 1% will be paid each year to the non-conformity fund, i.e. under these assumptions the level of functional salaries at the end of this coordination period, i.e. from 31.12.2009 onwards, approximately 4% lower, without taking into account additional resources for stimulation or for additional work performance in the judiciary. At an individual level, virtually all the officials of this year's 1.3 are lost. Our wages are therefore reduced due to the impact of the reduced work-life allowance from 0.5 to 0.3. Such an average minister, if I may say so, loses about 50,000 dollars gross at 20 years of working age, an average member with 20 years of working age, about 40,000 dollars gross. What does that mean? Does this change, this reduction, mean degrading, reducing the reputation of political officials, ministers, Members, presidents and others? I believe that it means, on the contrary, that it means a responsible attitude towards public funds towards tax money. I would like to re-set this law and this decree in the context of the overall public sector wage regime. Today we do decide on our salaries, but we need to reflect this and realize that we are deciding on the pay system, which costs us 700 billion dollars a year, so I firmly believe that if we act in a responsible manner, that is to say when we adopt a proposal for amendments to the law and the decree, the reputation of state institutions and public officials increases, because we will show that we are able to see responsiblely with public funds. As a matter of fact, we are among the few privileged who have this power to set wages, and we regulate them ourselves. This, of course, is a temptation, and it is on this point that, in my view, we must deal with a high level of responsibility and realize that we are chosen or appointed to do public benefit and not for our own personal benefit. People say that, we're all about change until they touch us. Today we are in a situation where these changes, i.e. the reform of the wage system in the public sector, which was welcomed and supported in 2002, are being implemented and touched by ourselves, so it is a very responsible decision before us or today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to the Minister and the representative of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. At the first meeting of its sixteenth session, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the public sector wage system. In a supplementary explanation, the representative of the proposer, Dr Gregor Virnat, stressed that the purpose of the bill was to enable a smoother and faster transition to the new pay system or to facilitate implementation of the law on the public sector wage system. The Act, which was adopted in 2002 and amended and supplemented in 2004 and 2005, lays down common foundations for the public sector's wage system, namely the principle of equal pay for work in comparable places, titles and functions, and to ensure the transparency of the wage system and the incentive to pay. These principles remain unchanged, but it is true that, in practice to date, there has not been much change, and this needs to be overcome as soon as possible. After presenting the opinion of their services, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that the applicant had taken into account the comments made in the written opinion and had also drawn up proposals for amendments to the Committee. To continue, he drew attention only to the comment on Article 5 which was of a more nomotechnic nature and because there was a minor misunderstanding. A representative of SWIZ and a representative of the Slovenian Union of State and Social Authorities also participated, stressing that representative public sector unions oppose the government proposal to start paying officials in accordance with the new payment system no later than 1 March, because they felt that the legal conditions for the entry of 150,000 public servants into the new pay system would not be met. The representative of the Council of State took note of the fact that the draft law was supported by both the Commission of the Council of State for the political system and the Council of State at its meeting. The Council of State supports the Government's efforts to pay public sector officials and directors. Before that, they also believe that the proposal is not ideal. The State Council points out the risk of partial change in the regulated area, since the law is only bound by the entry into force of the decision on salaries of officials and the regulation on the salaries of directors in the public sector, but there is still no collective agreement on the public sector to regulate the salaries of other employees in the sector. For this reason, he expressed the hope that the government's work would not only stop in regulating the salaries of public sector officials and directors, but would also advocate the early conclusion of the negotiations on a public sector collective agreement that would allow for a comprehensive regulation of public sector wages. The representative of the Judicial Council stressed that the Council of Justice insists on commenting on the proposed amendment to the law. In their view, some salaries are being reduced to judges. In addition, he stressed that payment is one of the conditions for ensuring the judge's independence, if it is not a judge's right, but his duty to citizens and at the same time their right to a lawful and impartial judge. During the discussion, the representative of the proposer responded to these and other expressed concerns about the legal solutions envisaged. The debate reflected divergent views on the proposed novel. Part of the debaters considered that in this way the partial approach of the pay system was somehow being enforced and that it meant that the proposed law should distance itself from the objective pursued and, above all, that it was necessary to respect the statement by which the government committed itself not to make uncoordinated comments into the legislative process, while most of the debaters supported the early regulation of the pay system and thus to approximate the real possibility of signing a collective agreement for the public sector as a whole. The amendments tabled under Article 1 were the amendment by Mr Anton Kokalja and the SDS, SNI, SLS and DeSUS members, and the Committee also supported some of its amendments and all the articles together as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Aloise Sok, New Slovenia, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u6	Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Around the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on salaries in the public sector and on this law of binding decree, which we both have before us today, much has already been said in public and much has been written in public. Even in 2002, when the basic law was passed, this was the case, and the fact is that since 2002, with the exception of the two novelties adopted in 2004 and 2005, nothing has actually happened in this area in relation to the regulation of the highest wages in the public sector, and so today we are faced with this decision to regulate the public sector's pay system, for which we spend about 700 billion budget dollars on an annual basis or, if you want, taxpayer's money. So it is something that the previous government coalition has predicted, and this time it must actually do so. The bill is, as has already been said, closely linked to the proposal for a decision on the salaries of officials. Both regulate the highest wages in the public sector and indirectly affect the classification of other jobs in the public sector. The adoption of the law will also allow the enforcement of the decree, at the same time as the Regulation on the salaries of directors in the public sector as of 1 March this year. We know what information we have been able to read in the media in the past regarding the salaries of directors in public institutions. This will set up a system of salaries for civil and local officials as well as for directors of public institutions, public funds, municipal administrations, etc. And that is the most important thing to say when we adopt this law. The new pay system will bring immediate savings of about 600 million Slovenian tolars, as the minister has already explained here, because once this law and decree are passed, the allowance will fall by all from 0.5 to 0.3% each year. Thus, the level of that allowance will be the same as for public administration employees or public servants. Even though the proposed regime does not fully agree with the unions, they say that the proposal is not fully coordinated with them, and the same applies to some who belong to the wage classes, we will adopt this law in the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party Group and also the decree that follows under this law. For three reasons in particular: firstly, because this law will achieve transparency in the pay system, because there will also be unity in the public sector in this law, and firstly in order to eliminate wage imbalances. In particular, we are pleased to see that this law and decree are being amended, and we might say, some kind of outrageous discrimination, namely the salaries of mayors in smaller municipalities. What has happened in the past in this area needs to be changed and these people must be shown that their work in these local self-government communities is appreciated. Members can vote in favour of this law without a hint of bad news, because - as the Minister has explained and we all know it and we do not need to speak specifically here - they also pay us Members less with this law. But we all know when American President Roosevelt announced a new economic programme called "new deal" in the last century, he first began. We know that that anecdotes is known, that it first reduced the temperature in its office and then ordered that all civil servants act the same. So if we want to do something, then this law and this decree must be adopted. And I hope that this will be done by most Members of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Jakob Presečnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u8	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with a colleague, a respected colleague and colleagues! Amendments to the law on the public sector wage system are necessary for the implementation of wage reform in the public sector. This is a reform set by the law already in 2002. This law laid down fundamental principles, namely the principle of uniformity and transparency of wages and established the elimination of wage imbalances. But the problem with this law is - which was adopted years ago and then with corrections - which is also typical of some other very ambitious laws: the problem is, of course, all these laws to bring to life, the problem is to realize them. This government has also set itself one of the objectives of finalising this highly sensitive area, the areas of public sector wages. And why is this a sensitive area? If we are to implement a reform aimed at rationalising the use of public servants' salaries, we must probably take something away from someone. And, of course, it is difficult for anyone who has a certain right or in this case a certain salary to pay it. However, of course, there is no other recipe for achieving this goal; if there was one, I would certainly have used it in many ways. The proposal of the law in question seeks to enable all the highest salaries in the public sector to be regulated by the government regulation on the salaries of directors in the public sector, i.e. not only the salaries of directors in the public sector, but also the salaries of public and local level officials. The salaries of the officials will be regulated by a decree to be dealt with, as is known, at the next item on the agenda. By approving amendments to the law on the public sector wage system, we will therefore arrange for the highest wages in the public sector, and for all other salaries, a suitable solution will have to be reached in the public sector collective agreement. Many comments were made at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice by representatives of trade unions, as well as representatives of institutions affected by the law in one way or another, following amendments to the law. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are aware that this is an infringement of certain rights and entitlements, on which we are particularly sensitive, so we approach the decision on this law with all seriousness and responsibility. However, it should also be borne in mind that it means harmonising the highest wages in the public sector from this year's 1st to 3rd, a very decisive move which testifies to the seriousness of the measures announced, with a view to reducing the costs of public administration. The adoption of the proposed law will make an important contribution to public sector wage reform. I must also say here that so far there have been many imbalances. However, given that wages were regulated in specific laws, there was no real comparison. Surely there will be imbalances now, but they will be more visible and comparable and can be remedied later. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will therefore support the proposed law by adopting this law, and we will also show Members that we have serious intentions in regulating the wage system in the public sector, because we are also Members who, due to the adoption of this law, as far as wages are concerned, are in a worse position than ever. However, we are the only ones who can make a final decision on this and are therefore particularly responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Boštjan Zagorac. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! The law that we have before us and the decree that will yet be before us are, in fact, inexplicable. These are the words of the Minister on the Committee, so I apologize in advance if I will ever use any statements or things in the decree. For the law before us, we are convinced in the Slovenian National Party that it is a law with which the government wants to save; to save in a way that would please people; and, in our conviction, it is a simple bluff. If we look at the country from an economic and political point of view as a kind of enterprise, it means reducing wages for employees in the company is a particular crisis, a crisis that we have been alerting in the Slovenian National Party for a long time. The fact is that the law covering such a large segment of people is not in line with the social partners. Although all those who have signed the coalition agreement are probably aware that it also states that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia undertakes not to introduce any law into the legislative process that will not be supported or coordinated with the social partners. The ethical code of government adopted by the government also speaks. It seems to me that such a lack of alignment with the unions is unhygienic. If we look at the paying classes that follow and divide Members and other state officials into certain groups, we must be aware that all 90 Members have been elected to the elections, and I think it is wrong to classify ourselves as individual classes. It is also true that the reduction of the labour-time allowance from 0.5 per cent to 0.3 per cent, as proposed by the Government, must be consistent with the social partners and must have a broader consensus. To avoid misunderstandings, we support saving the country in the Slovenian National Party, but not in the bluffing way proposed by the government today. We have already proposed some solutions to how the state could save enough money without interfering with the wage system in the public sphere. One of these is, of course, the withdrawal of a permanent mandate, where a number of financial resources would be "spent" by reducing the judicial backlogs. The abolition of the state council was another attempt in which the state would also put up a huge pile of money. Members of Slovenia in various memberships, let me mention NATO, amount to, say, about 55 billion Slovenian tolars annually. The OSCE Presidency and the organised conference, which was three days in Ljubljana, cost this country 800 million Slovenian tolars, these are the funds that have been shown. We will probably never know the truth about the amount of these funds, and if we were doing a survey on Slovenian streets today, no one would know that this was happening in Ljubljana except for the Foreign Minister. All we got for these 800 million Slovenian tolars was the own promotion of one of the ministers. Last but not least, if the government had real savings objectives, it would be wise to consider adopting a possible decision on the removals of directors in public enterprises. We know that some directors abstain in a certain public company for three, four, five or six months, and then receive 24 months' allowances, even though we know that in all these contracts the retirement range is from nothing to 24, but I do not recall the case of any director of a public company whose majority owner is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, receiving a retirement: nothing, two or five. So far, it has always been an example of getting a retirement of two full years. Such a decision would be very interesting and would be welcomed by the Slovenian National Party. Last but not least, such a decision could be reached by the government through its supervisors, which it has in its companies, which it is the majority owner of. All of these are facts that make it impossible for us in the Slovenian National Party to agree to a bluffing way of saving the government, and we will not support both the law and the decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u11	Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The Public Sector Wage System Act is inconsistent. Therefore, the DeSUS Group cannot support it, or the DeSUS Group will oppose it. The law was adopted three years ago and completed almost every year. Now we're re-enacting it. The ambition of the law on savings, on transparency, on the elimination of wage imbalances is good, and this ambition is supported by the DeSUS Group. But of this ambition, there's not much left to do. We are of the view that these objectives, which have been written down, will not be achieved to a large extent, but have ensured procedures that have witnessed a great deal of dissatisfaction, a great deal of opposition not only between the opposition but also between the coalition Members and Members. So there was quite a lot of perceptions and dissatisfaction. And the forecasts, we have heard again today, it is predicted that it is necessary to adopt the law first, then it is necessary to adopt a decision, then it will be necessary to adopt a collective agreement for the public sector and other collective agreements, etc., and all of this ultimately has certain consequences. The Minister has repeatedly pointed to this or, I would say, signaled that they would be careful that it is only a good example, that it is a matter of orientation, what we will do later, and that it is a matter of determining the direction, now, I quote his words. Among other things, the minister says that this example is good, perhaps for someone, for a vast minority, for a large majority, it is a bad example; those who write poorly are much more than those who will benefit from it. The next thing that bothers us in the DeSUS Group is the benevolent of the National Assembly. What, though, does the executive power have to be benevolent to us, since when is it so established that we are just an appendix, some unnecessary pendant, perhaps even disturbing to whom? This is a flawed logic and such logic of course we do not support; even when I speak of the benevolent, I speak of what can be quoted, I would say, from authorised articles, not from what a journalist might have written wrongly. So, this orientation and this signal and these government benevolents are also not accepted by the DeSUS Group. The methods and methods of work used in this process are such that there is no consistency with the social partners, which no one hopes to deny. In addition, in the last part, even some novelty in the proposal, which was previously not harmonised, has been brought about by a novelty that speaks of a reduction from 0.5 to 0.3. That is why we will also support today's amendment, which is proposed because this type of one of ours has been rejected in the previous proceedings, and we feel that such an amendment is at the expense of 150 000 public servants and I do not know how many 100,000 workers should not be overlooked, so that we must not make their situation worse, and the coalition treaty also states, inter alia, that we will not do so. We also reject this because the supplement for the past work does not mean anything for the one who has barely entered the work relationship, but does not get anything; some already have 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 39 and almost 40 years of age, and of course they are losing a lot. We do not agree that only an older generation would pay for this. We will not support this. The thoughts and reactions of many of the above-mentioned respected institutions have been transmitted today, and many concerns have also been raised by coalition members and Members. I do not know what arguments they have heard that they will now change their views, we do not know them in the DeSUS Group of Members, and we are not the ones who change their position just to obey them. We're not the ones who'd agree to be told, take a deep breath and don't breathe, and stop breathing. We will try to keep breathing and argue where we feel we have rational arguments. We are opposed to the government's question being paid by older, public servants and those who will come to order later.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor to put forward the position of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Before any serious discussion, we are well aware of the size of the system that we are dealing with. The public sector employs 150,000 people and pays over 650 billion a year, says almost 700 billion. With these figures, we ask ourselves in the SDS why such a giant system, which consumes one third of the state budget, does not yet have a regulated pay system. Let us recall the recent discoveries of disproportionately high salaries of some directors of public institutions, and the agencies that accounted for a few million a month knew nothing about the amount because their salaries were calculated by accountants. The president of the country was a poor man compared to them. Every employee's wish is to pay as much as possible, even in the public sector, and there is nothing wrong with it. Unfortunately, however, wages also depend on the ability of the economy. The acceptability of this claim is greater if we know that it is almost 700 billion SIT at the annual level, that is the sum that is greater than the sum for investments at the annual level. At the same time, it must be recognised that all employees and not only directors of certain public institutions in the country but others have a desire or right to higher wages. The proposed law should also be adopted in order to eliminate the salary imbalances and salaries of directors, in view of the validity of the regulation or the decision on the salaries of directors of public institutions. However, there is a major problem with the relationship between the salaries of individual sectors where they were for the same or similar work and where there are different wages. These imbalances occurred because in the previous period the system was not willing to settle. So we can say that the system wasn't there, but basically everyone had their own rules, without the possibility of a comparison. However, the confusion was increased by various supplements, for each industry a different supplement. During the period following the adoption of the basic law in 2002, the date of entry into force of the law was postponed twice, and we warned about this in the SDS, also because, as the opposition, we were backing the said legislation because we wanted a clear, transparent and European comparable situation to be created in the public sector's paid work. We were aware of the responsibilities of the large funds being spent, and rightly so, for this purpose. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that the very salary area is also the most sensitive and immensely large area for demagogies. We are talking a lot about a regulated public sector, in particular an efficient and friendly public administration as one of the segments of the public sector. However, if we do not have a regulated or basic motivational factor, this is a salary system that applies to the whole sector and is also transparent and public. It is unacceptable and abnormal that just the greatest deviations, it is said, excruciating cases of various wages are hidden behind secrecy. The salaries of the budget are secret data - this world does not know. It is also necessary to adopt the proposed law so that it will not be self-evident that public wages can only be paid by Members. In the SDS, we are aware that the system, as proposed in the law, is not ideal. But can a system with more than one salary be ideal? Can anyone be happy at all? It's hard, but there's someone who would say it's the right thing to do. However, it is important that all are subject to the same rules of conduct, behaviour, including responsibilities and not just rights. Thus, there is a system where progress is included, both in position and in salary. The whole system, the whole set of public legislation regulates this and the law under consideration is one of the necessary conditions. It must be acknowledged that this is the first attempt to make this area definitive. In the SDS, we are convinced that the system will still have to be repaired, that it is not ideal, but how and on what basis we should correct it if we do not have it yet. In Slovenia alone, we fixed it and drank it for 15 years, and we were always at the beginning because we improved the virtual on paper or on screen, but never the real one from practice. That's why we came to the point that someone was hoping to settle a few million sums. And since time has been on my mind, I would say that in Europe, too, this system has been created for several decades, and they are not quite satisfied. It is said that as soon as possible we must begin to correct this, to prepare and cannot skip the entire stage of development. And that's why we're going to support this law in the SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The word is given by Dr Pavle Gantar, who will give the position of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister, co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In explaining the amendments and supplementing the Law on the Complementation of the Law on the Public Sector Wage System, the applicant refers to changes in the public sector's pay system and in particular to public servants who have been established by new legislation in the previous term. The applicant submits that, by amending the law and adopting a subsequent decision on the salaries of officials, he will put in a single salary system, realise the intentions of the law on public sector wages, and in particular that he will regulate the highest wages in this sector. Today, the Minister has made his intentions very clear and I must say that the explanation was interesting. But I think he said more than he was going to say. In the LDS, we believe that this reasoning of this law is misleading and does not tell all the truth about the changes. Firstly, it is not clear why the highest salaries in the public sector should be determined only by setting the highest salaries of the elected officials at the same time, unless public officials, especially those in the leading positions - and those in the leading positions in the public sector, are compared with public officials. We're actually comparing these two categories. Such an equation, even though it happens through payment systems, is harmful to the functioning of public administration. It is understandable to everyone that there must be an agreed relationship between the pay system of public officials and public servants. This does not mean, however, that it is only on the basis of a new decision on the salaries of officials that we can also set the highest wages in the public sector. The Minister said that, for the salaries of officials, he dictates a decree, which we will also adopt today. However, the salaries of the highest public officials are laid down in the Regulation on these salaries. Why should I actually regulate these anomalies that are the highest in the salaries of these officials, why should these anomalies be eliminated by correcting the decision on the salaries of officials? We simply do not understand this, if there are anomalies, they are corrected by a regulation and the decision on the salaries of officials has nothing to do with it. If there are anomalies in the salaries of public officials, tell us what they are and we will correct them with this decision that we are amending today. And it's just such an interpretation possible, no different. The applicant claims that this law will pave the way for a single pay system by eliminating various work-life allowances for officials. Of course it doesn't. It is certain that these supplements, which are now available to beloved officials, will simply be poured into a single salary through sorting into wage classes. If I am not mistaken, we are Members in six such classes. Now that we have colleagues and fellow Members of this variety of supplements, of course they will express themselves in different wage classes. In general, this provision does not apply to judges, state prosecutors, state lawyers who belong to them, provided that this is provided by law. And the laws governing these areas will determine that. The Law of Judicial Service already says that. Therefore, these changes do not lead to a single pay system in the public sector, but a partial approach to the pay system is once again being adopted and is a step away from the declared objective and not a step towards uniform and comparable pay systems. As we will see in the decision, rather than the government abolishing the old, it creates a new wage imbalance. At the same time, a number of actors, trade unions and others working in this area have also identified and overlooked the Government's intention to reduce the salaries of some officials by reducing the labour-time allowance from 0.5 to 0.3, in fact setting negotiating points for negotiations with the public sector. We are officers here, loved and appointed, hostages in negotiations. Why? We don't know that. But because of such an approach, we could refer to this as a story of unsolicited consequences. Instead of improving his negotiating position, he made it worse. Yesterday we found that a trade union is established in the public sector, which will certainly make negotiations difficult for him. Since he did not negotiate, savings are unknown, and of course we do not know what they will be like if they do. At the same time [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The 700 billion remain the context in which we are moving, and this will remain the same under this law. [[...]] That is why, of course, we will not support and oppose this law in the LDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. He will give the opinion of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! We are aware that the subject of wages for regulation is very difficult, especially when it comes to 150 000 people, if we want to ensure relative justice, and that it is especially unpopular after all when it comes to salaries that you decide on for yourself. At the same time, it is a beautiful field for demagogy, for half-truths, a basis for accusations and silences and for all, I believe that unfortunately today will work too. With regard to the Group of Social Democrats, the proposed law creates so far-reaching changes for us and raises so many fundamental issues that we will not support it. Let me give you a few basics. First time. The law is prepared without cooperation with the competent unions. Despite the signed agreement between the government and the unions - also the minister proposing this law - has signed such an agreement - that the changes and additions to the pay system will not take place without or before the new agreement, the government ignores such an agreement and proposes substantial changes to the law. As Social Democrats to such ignoring the social partnership, we cannot agree to a word in such an important area. No demagogies, any unreal propaganda initiated by the government in this law, can deter us from doing so. Only that fact could and would be enough not to support the law. But secondly, the rule of law and its enforcement does not introduce a single salary system, but a re-difference for many groups of public servants. Instead of putting in place a truly unified pay system, in some important groups three have already been mentioned today, this is a group of judges, prosecutors and lawyers, introducing new wage-setting rules and instead of gradually introducing a single system, we return to the beginning, to the various systems, to fight each individual group and to each individual union to create specific rights for it. It's a bad trip to law school. It's like a third. It is not true that the proposed law will save in the entire system. It's a simple lie. That's a lie. It tries to implement a few savings with very controversial solutions on March 1st, and in the next four years it will be due to the law to increase the volume of wage funds. I am not saying that this is illogical or impossible, because usually, according to my experience, whenever we tried to adapt and adapt payment systems by motivating people, we needed some percentage, two, adjustment reserves. We probably need this now too, but then don't say that the system is being adopted to save money. That's not true, that's a lie. Only on 1 March would this happen at the expense of a particular group, or in the next four years it will be due to an increase in the law. It's like the fourth. The proposed solutions need to be assessed in terms of compliance with the Constitution, which we are also reminded of in the legislative and legal service, and many of the groups that I have already appointed, including those dealing with law. In fact, whenever we have changed so far any system that has affected people's rights, wages, pensions, invalidity, various nominal benefits, we have always changed it in a way that we have not reduced our rights. This is the first time we've done this. I am convinced that this matter - at least for a serious assessment, if not completely - is unacceptable, because in no case has the principle of protection of rights been adopted constitutionally so far if it has intervened in them backwards and reduced them. These are the reasons for voting against the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of a review of the amendments of 1.2.2006. Excuse me? Do you have a question, procedurally? No, no, no. What do I want to remind you of before the debate? We are discussing an amendment to Article 10. In order for this to be closer to us, I will read this article, saying: "Until the public sector collective agreement is in force, an additional 0.3% of the basic salary for each year of work is temporarily fixed for officials." I would ask you to really stick to the topics relating to the amendment to Article 10 or Article 10 in your deliberations. That is why I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Who wants a word? It's Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to protest in some way because in his opening act, the minister again used the word "privileged" and it is in plural for officials. I must say, I am not a member of this category of privilege. On Monday, however, you answered my question with a specific issue that there are 46 privileged members of the supervisory boards and boards sitting in the government and ministries at this time in just one area. These are privileged people. Those who, in addition to their basic salary received for the function they perform, of course, perform other tasks during their working hours and receive material "satisfaction". And it looks like it. We will set an example when these privileged ones of whom I have just spoken will give up. Then we will be credible, of course, for the example of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Now specifically for this amendment. I support this amendment being deleted for a substantial reason. Indeed, as has been pointed out several times today, the law itself has not been harmonised among the social partners. This is an eclectic breach of the coalition treaty, an ethical code that I have already quoted on the committee, and it can be once again signed by all ministers. It is also a matter of duplicity and an unfair attitude of the government towards the social partners, as Minister Virant signed a declaration on 3 May last year, the second point of which makes clear the assurance of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - it is said, on behalf of the Government - that it will not put uncoordinated changes in the law. I quote: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia undertakes not to put any additional amendments into the legislative process and does not support further amendments and supplement laws that are not consistent with the social partners." [[End of quote.]] Such unilateral action, as the government has done in this case, is not good, is not right for the social partners, is not wise and proves once again that it is a relic of the absolute control of all branches of government, that is, the executive branch of government [[I'll talk more about it after we have our ruling.]] . That is why, of course, this bill also contains this provision, which has now been discussed, which has never been negotiated between the social partners. Therefore, among the experts involved, this Appendix 0.3 even refers to it as "Viranto's supplement". This is not just about officials, it is about all 160,000 and some employees in the public sector, from teachers, doctors, police officers, soldiers, all the way to employees in state and municipal administrations, which this same withdrawal of this 0.5 will catch up with a little later. But later, of course, this means that the same will happen in the economic sector, the private sector and so on. It is therefore a measure which, without discussion between the social partners, should not be in the proposal for a law, and we therefore oppose it. And in the end, money drives some to their senses and others to their senses. I therefore propose that the proposer also use this second part of this syntagma to come to our senses - with better solutions than this.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u22	Thank you very much. In the Social Democrats Group of Members, we were aware that we were going to a place where demagogies could be most fruitful when this amendment was tabled. And this is how the Minister began his introduction. I believe that some other fellow Members and fellow Members will join in, but I think that is why it is also important to try to pour pure wine at this point and tell us what this is all about. The first is, if this government really wanted to save - this has already been said - it could also save in the pay system of public officials in many specific areas: incompatibilities of functions, awards for participation in supervisory councils. I would not have made the decision, as she said, to make a big promise that we would reduce or settle our salaries to the Secretary of State. And what did we do? Because they were still a hundred percent success, we gave them this success in a new coefficient and thus claim to have arranged wages. These salaries, however, remain the same or higher than they were before. We have a number of types of ministers' salaries, and ministers are themselves assigned to where and to which group of salaries will be judged. Finally, we must adopt the law and the decree and enforce it on 1 March in order to settle the salaries of directors in public institutions is simply not true. This is what the government wants to do because it does not hope to pay in public institutions without at the same time arranging wages elsewhere. That's possible, let's just say it. Not to say that it is a systemic condition to enforce it. As regards the specific proposal. I must say that I am firmly convinced, and this government even in the various documents and those written that the reduction is additional to the working age from 0.5 to 0.3% targeted not only because of the salaries of the officials, but mainly because of the salaries of the public servants, because this is also written in explanation that the government would be better placed to negotiate with the public sector, and to say, see if the officials have landed, you must also agree. As much as can be said at the negotiations and how much the government holds the word, several times has already been said today. And she's just gonna force it out. It has to be said that it will not stop here. The government has a specific provision in the Economic and Social Reform Programme, after which it wants to replace the work-life allowance with a permanent allowance. The work-life allowance should also be abolished in material production, namely for all 300 and so many thousands that work there. For them too, today’s decision will be a good example. And when, on this basis, even on the basis of a bill made by the government at the average working age of 20 years by 4%, the nominal salary will be reduced to all in the public sector and to all in material production, pensions will go up so much slower. And 500 and so many thousands of pensioners from this have borne their consequences. I want us to be aware of that. If the Minister is able to prove his demagogism differently, he should try, only this is the truth that we will come to within a few months or in a year or two, and it will be the result of today's decision. That no one would think that we're just talking about us. We in the parliamentary group said, Mr Minister, when the government will conclude an agreement with all the social partners: in the economy, in the public services and in the economy, and promise not to blackmail these social partners with the changes they are today, we are prepared to cancel these 0.2% a year for ourselves not to say now, your interest and your wages are what you are fighting for. Do it. But until you do, you have to tell us what the consequences will be. And in the end. It should also be said that solutions are systematically questionable. They're questionable. To date, no right that has been guaranteed has ever been taken back. In fact, it's taken back. I know, in fact, you're going to say, it's not back because it's forward since 1 March, but it's for the working time anyone's already got, or just one year, and it's only 0.5 or 30 years and 15%. To him, this right will be reduced by 40% immediately and will constitute an intervention in the acquired right to return. It is right to know this and this will certainly be judged by the Constitutional Court in one way or another. The arguments given so far by the government have been in this part, not the arguments, but the arguments, not true, it is acceptable. Okay. You can't argue that, but you can't argue that, and that's a serious question. Therefore, we are convinced that, because of the protection of the system, because of the unacceptable consequences that this decision would have on all employees and pensioners in our country, it is right for the government to seriously reconsider the proposal it has made, we will not support it in Article 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u23	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Of course, it is clear that Members of the DeSUS Group will support the amendment, not least because we have already proposed it ourselves, but because it has not been accepted. We would like to say that we do not agree to such a game, which, while rejecting this amendment, repeats two concepts. One is called privilege and another responsibility. With regard to privilege, let us say that Members and Members of Parliament, I suppose at least, do not fight for our privileges. It is also very few of us that the state budget, based on what is now being proposed to reduce from 0.5 to 0.3, will not be visible to Members. Of course, it has to save a lot for others, for those more than 100,000 who can, but these are workers and public servants who can contribute to the mass of a very important number. Therefore, this will certainly be remembered by the Minister, and our negotiations on his part have also been made clear. If we lose 0.3, we lose the law, the law doesn't make sense. That was said on the record. And this, of course, is now to be seen as a struggle for the privileges of Members, of course, does not hold criticism back. The other thing is that Mr Minister knows that a number of coalition members, not just those of the DeSUS Group of Members, are against what he proposes. It's really strange that things are changing now and I don't know who's standing on their toes and why they're ready when someone's standing on their toes, pressing their teeth and silently enduring pain instead of asking, step down with your fingers. But that's right. This has also been recorded on the record, and this has also been recorded in the public media, including personal assurances to me and some other Members who opposed bad solutions. So the privilege we're talking about is declassified. With regard to the responsibilities that Mr Minister has mentioned in this context, those who will vote in favour of my proposal will also vote in favour of saving and in favour of the state budget. Those who don't, you're irresponsible. Of course, that's no way to argue. Those who will oppose, by the constitution, by the law on Members, and also by some purely ordinary human rights, we have the right to think with our heads. And we take responsibility, but not for a handful of privileged people, but for the 100,000 who will be affected by this bill on the pay system. We feel responsible for them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you. I'll be brief, Mr. President. I have already told the Minister on one occasion that I will not support this proposal or that we have also tabled an amendment that mitigates the consequences, particularly in assessing the function of certain positions. See that I, and in the past we have proved in our client that we are willing to save, to reduce also our own wages and to support significant reductions in percentages. I would like to remind you of a 20% reduction that has been in place for many years. However, that we are placed as elected representatives of the people in a position when we are overtaken by State secretaries, we can assume that the directors of the Directorates will soon be ahead of us, and so on, to evaluate our position. We can go so far as to get back into the situation when we do what we do for free. This will, of course, be the most exemplary for taxpayers, the most beautiful. The question is, What will be the honor of this situation and what our responsibility will be? I would prefer to see the government decide to propose a reduction of 10% in wages, especially among officials, and we will all save much more as will be saved by this measure. All the nice things about being responsible for taxpayers are nice, but it doesn't convince us. And I'm surprised that colleagues from the coalition, which is how they agree to their function, and their reputations are so devalued. Finally, there are few functions directly selected. They are Members, they are Mayors, they are President of the Republic. Everyone else is also named by us. And it's funny to suddenly find ourselves in pay grade, lower than the ones we named. If this trend continues, we will go in the wrong direction. I think we're downgrading ourselves, and then we're not surprised if the public categorizes us, like we do. I call for at least this amendment to mitigate the effects of this government decision and maintain at least a little of the reputation that I think we deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u27	Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that, in fact, the reputation is not only linked to the height of the salary, but also to the reputation of the National Assembly. But right now we're at the amendment, so it's 0.3 or 0.5 or 0.5 or 0.3, that's the question. Before that, a colleague of Kumer said that it was called - or suggested that it could be called something called the Virant Supplement. However, I can see that if Parliament accepts this, then this will be an addition to the National Assembly. It seems to me that in this wage regulation, which is a difficult issue - we ourselves have seen how this discussion has been going on since 2002, when a new law on wage relations was passed. We were able to read for ourselves what millions of wages were paid in the public sector to some of the directors of the institutions, and, of course, people were expecting Parliament to do something. And if we can and if there's anything we can do, then, once again, we need to start with ourselves. You can't take something and prescribe something to everyone else, and you don't have your share. That's the way I see it. But I know it's hard not to talk without it and that the social partners are actually having a hard time giving up anything. Everybody's just saying more. And if we also listen to the opposition about how these debates revolve around here in the National Assembly just this week -- you say, more for housing, more for scholarships, more for studies, more for social services -- yes, but the question is where we're going to take them. Where are we gonna take it? This bag is what it is. Each savings, of course, comes in handy. Because you can't just take it out and not put it in. That's demagogy, isn't it? That's what it is, actually. And, of course, I can't agree with that. But it's true, there's a lot to be done. You know, these big redundancies are more of an owner's thing, but they're gonna have to be cut into that, too. What's the point of this 100 million-dollar retirement? What's the point? On the other hand, we know that workers earn as much as they deserve when we have so many and so many thousands of pensioners who barely survive, so many and so many social problems. Of course, as far as warning and present in the control councils are concerned, we will do the most [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u29	Mr. Sok, please focus on the amendment to the article.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u30	This is an amendment, Mr. Chairman. It's an amendment. I want to explain why I will be in favour of a solution as proposed in the law. And I will not support this amendment because I want to point out the thousands of problems in this country. I don't think this is any kind of back-up intervention. If the law is amended, then a new relationship shall also enter into force from the time the law enters into force. I do not believe that the Constitutional Court - which my colleague Potsch was referring to - will find this unconstitutional. After all, even if a company goes bankrupt, someone loses a job that they had for an indefinite period of time, could they also say here that an intervention is an acquired right? And no one's explaining it like that. I won't support the amendment. But once again, Chairman, everything I have said concerns this amendment. But if you would rather just hear everyone say whether it's for or against, then that's how it's supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u31	Thank you very much. One moment, honourable Members and Members. It is a great honour to welcome in our midst the President of the Swedish Parliament, Dr Byörn von Sydow, and the members of the Swedish parliamentary delegation who have joined us on the balcony. Respected [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] Dear guests, I would like to have a successful conversation and a pleasant stay in our country. [[...]] [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you very much. [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Squeakl, a procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u32	Please, President, I would ask you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to do what you said at the beginning of this point, and that is, to warn Mr Sok that he went beyond the context of the debate on the amendment to Article 10, because today we are discussing a system of public sector wages. I hope that we are not discussing the wage system in the private sector. The questions raised by the gentleman about the contracts are certainly not the subject of Article 10. If you make up your mind and do not remember it, we will only understand that then we can go beyond the debate you started. Mix here the demagogy of discharges, the loss of jobs with demagogy, which, of course, Mr Minister started, but simply not possible. So I suggest you remind him of Mr. Sok. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u34	And, of course, let's just keep an eye on that, and we'll respect what you said in the beginning. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you very much. At the beginning of the debate, I think I have pointed out that we are discussing an amendment to Article 10. Mr Kumer has a replica of the performance of Mr Sok. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. I'm a little embarrassed that as a new Member, a new face here, I have to remind some of the other Members who are sitting here of the facts that have happened in this Chamber. Two years ago, there was a long list of executives who had a lot of pay in this room. A spokesman from two years ago today is the Prime Minister and he could have done something at that time. It was already adopted last summer by a government regulation and has not yet experienced its implementation. Now, of course, it is necessary to do so, because obviously there is a fear of someone, to join all the officials so that, of course, this regulation can also be brought to life. But good, that's right. Second. I know it's easier to take a decision than to lead a social dialogue. And that's it. This 0.3 is due to the fear of having a dialogue with the social partners in this area, and of course it is easier to adopt a decision. And a third. Speaking of savings, through three of my parliamentary questions, I will reach three billion that could save them by 2009. One billion trips abroad, not to mention, until 2009. The second billion I could have asked the emissary question the day before yesterday [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u37	Please hold tight. I gave you my word as a replica. Replica to Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u38	I am replicating, because Mr Sok was talking about money, where he said we were talking about demagogy, not where we came from, and I'm telling you where we could get these billions. The third is, of course, the management of state property. In a year and a few days, we sold almost no more state property, and we talk a lot about it, even in last year's year we changed twice, complemented the decree. The only resource to be filled in from this title is the sale or rental of falcon day. But everything else is almost nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the issue of the supplement at work, I think it is certainly necessary to say a few words at least for those who have been facing this issue for several years. I think this question is much more complex than we're dealing with right now. That's my view. The fact is, we can't partially solve the work-life allowance. That's a consensual question. Whether the dialogue is difficult or not, we will have to conduct this dialogue. The real situation in the labour market is that we are those who, on the basis of such a large supplement at work, are simply too expensive a workforce, compared to Europe, compared to what is now being done at the best time of our activities at some 40 years of age and with some 15 years of work experience. We are too expensive compared to them, so it is so difficult to establish an effective system of employment for older people over 50, or more than 55 years. That's a fact we're going to have to deal with as a society. This was also the subject when we adopted a new law on working relations in the previous term. It is evident that all employers as one have advocated a slightly better employment opportunities for older people and the maintenance of older people in employment in order to reduce this percentage in general. I think that this is necessary and that this consensus must be pursued in terms of reaching consensus. I am little concerned that we are dealing with this at this moment only in this context, although I welcome this on the one hand if this is a contribution to taking this issue seriously. I would rather see that, in general, for all employees, this allowance is resolved through a system of working conditions that should give them the limit under which the collective agreement cannot. I accept this reduction so little with close feeling, because I fear that we have not allowed a serious dialogue to begin at the entire level of the staff. I would therefore call for further consideration to be given to this issue, if this is, as the Minister has stated, that the capture of Appendix 0.5 in the case of public servants, such as officials addressed to a much larger sum than on the basis, would then be understood, but that this system should be amended to cover 5% of the base without all other functional supplements, etc., would be much more correct, given the basic starting point of use 0.5 per year. I think we should really look for dialogue here. If we are serious about the labour market and with reforms, we need to be comparable and likely to be able to make this change from one point forward. But if we intervene again, it will easily cause too much conflict in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u41	Mr. Minister Virant has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I'm going to list nine reasons why I don't think this amendment can be accepted. First time. The adoption of this amendment would create a legal void. The amendment is also legally incorrect. In particular, the basic law on the public sector wage system is laid down in Article 25, specifically in the third paragraph: Functioners are entitled to an allowance for working hours of the amount laid down for public servants by a collective contract for the public sector. Of course, we do not yet have a collective contract for the public sector. We are in the midst of solid negotiations and we are seriously counting, the common objective of trade unions and governments is to conclude a treaty this year. The negotiations were initiated by the previous government in mid-2002 and nothing has been done in this area until the end of its mandate, so the collective agreement has not been signed. And by means of a transitional provision, we determine the amount of the allowance for working time during this transitional period until the conclusion of a collective agreement for the public sector. And if this provision is deleted, as the amendment foresees, then we are in a legal void and I fear that the only possible legal explanation is that we are left without an allowance for work well. So think carefully before you vote for this amendment. No, no, it's a legal fact, otherwise it can't be. That's another thing. In particular, I would like to answer Mr Rezman, who said that in this debate 0.3%, 0.5% does not go or does not defend functional salaries, but that he defends the salaries of 150 000 public servants. That's not true. The Public Sector Wages Act provides for the possibility of reducing the nominal salary only for officials and directors, for civil servants, while others explicitly state that their nominal salary cannot be reduced. And once again, a public servant, a doctor, a teacher, an opera singer, if you want, a playwright or a cleaning lady working at the Ministry, gets 0.5% on her basic salary. The basic wages in the public sector today are approximately. 50% to 60% of the total wage. So he actually gets 0.3% on his salary, and the government is proposing in these negotiations that in the new system, which will evaluate work in the basic salary and will only be an exception, we propose 0.3 in exceptional circumstances to maintain the level of the volume of wage funds rather than lower. This should be emphasized in particular. If you want me to put it simply, the allowance for officials is reduced from 0.5 to 0.3 to make it easier to maintain and not increase this allowance throughout the public sector. The effect of the supplement 0.5 in the public sector in the new system would be 17 billion plus at annual level, i.e. an additional 17 billion tolls at annual level, or a reduction in basic salaries. The next reason is that this amendment retains the privileges I spoke about. The fact that we are the only ones in the public sector who receive 0.5 per full salary compared to all public servants who receive 0.5 only on their basic salary can be considered a privilege. Isn't it? By adopting this amendment, we would set a bad example and a bad starting point for further regulation of the wage system in the public sector. The adoption of this amendment and already proposing this amendment is an irresponsible act because it increases the volume of wage funds, as a result it virtually prevents employers from offering a labour allowance to 0.3 unions and consequently increases the volume of public sector wage funds by 17 billion dollars per year. And it is an objective circumstance, whether you take it as a demagogy or not, that you oppose the adoption of this amendment or that those who support this amendment oppose the reduction of the functional salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u43	The word has Mr. Christian Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! This amendment, which my colleagues have proposed, I do not think that what the Minister has now explained again is acceptable and I will not support it myself. I am aware, however, that the area we are talking about today is extremely sensitive, difficult matter. There are 150,000 public sector employees who have certainly multiplied in recent years. According to my assessment, there are too many of them and that they are not successful enough and that we should do more here on this success, certainly also in this context, and that I believe that it is difficult to reward the one who is more successful, the one who is less successful. This would require more of this reward for those officials who are good, who are above average successful, than those who may not have a specified hour and have no success at the end of the month, except for the salary they receive. The public sector is well-paid, well-rewarded towards the economic sector, definitely. The case from the local community, I've said it several times, and I'm going to do it again here, which is "fitting" in this context, that the director, the principal of kindergarten, has a better salary than the mayor of 18,000 inhabitants, there's something wrong here. By the mayor taking care of everyone in this kindergarten, except the pedagogical leader, the world is wrongly set up, my dear colleagues and colleagues! And something's not right here. And that the same tutor in this kindergarten has an extra allowance for working with children is something very strange. That's wrong. This is the public sector, colleagues and colleagues! And here we should fix things that are completely disproportionate. And this reform in the public sector will be one step forward and certainly not a final step. We still have a lot of work to do here, all of us, who are connected in one way or another. And lastly, if we want to make order, first we have to go to our own backyard and then we have to go to our neighbor. This is one rule of the game: if you are yourself "this right", then also ask your colleagues. But if you mess it up a little, it's hard to expect success from your loved ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u45	Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the amendment of colleagues from the Social Democrats. The reasons for this, I think we have something. I will tell myself that I agree with my predecessor in the part where he said there are too many people in the public sector. I agree with that, of course, but I highly doubt that this law and the system will eliminate this anomaly, that there are too many people working there. At the same time, I cannot agree that this law will increase the performance of public sector employees. The point is that the supplement at work can be reduced, at least in our opinion, only by agreement and not by imposition. You have not reached this agreement in the coalition, at the same time with this law, I will say that you have breached the coalition contract to some extent, and today, if we adopt this new 0.3% supplement, it is in fact no longer an agreement and agreement, but rather an enforcement of a fact, unless you assure me that you will negotiate with the trade unions concerned and find that 0.4 would be the threshold that would be acceptable both to the government and to the trade unions, that you will arrive at this national assembly in two months with the amendment of the existing law. Last but not least, I do not know the case in the world or in Europe, where loyalty, loyalty or the dignity of an employee who has worked for many years in a company would be rewarded by lowering it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u47	Mr. Tomaž has the floor It's bad luck. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. From the present debate or from your point of view, especially those who support this amendment would find it difficult to find any meaningful argument. But look, the prevailing state in which the current government is, given the level of resources required for public sector wages, almost 40% of the budget goes to wages, gentlemen. For the wages. In one congregation, this is between 10% and 15%. But in this country, that's almost 40%. 700 billion compared to 1,700 billion. Above all, the problem is that in some segments of the public sector, too much employment is essential. Mostly probably in the administration. And even in the last decade or in recent years, I have seen, as mayor, that also in the field of education and education. In a way that has changed standards, they have demanded a higher number of employees. But the birth rate and the population are, of course, declining. It was also the fact that previous governments, with various additions and wage increases, also bought support in elections. The worst and the most selfish is just looking at yourself. I'd be against it, of course. My salary will fall by 6% due to a reduced work-life allowance; I am only 30 years old. But the essence of the shift, which we need to make in the public sector and set an example for everyone else, especially those who work and pay taxes, have relatively lower wages, we need to set an example or have a strong argument in negotiations with the public sector trade unions - we, officials; some, not all, because judges, prosecutors and lawyers are exempt from this reduction. I think that if this current proposal of a decree were negotiated in the public sector as a whole and only those employed in the public sector were reduced by 0.2%, this would mean, in the case of 700 billion, 14 billion dollars - per year, it would be said that if all employees were only one year employed and thus reduced from 0.5 to 0.3. In the whole calculation - I don't know, Mr. Minister is talking about 17 billion, but I don't know if I understand correctly, but I am sure that in the entire calculation, for all the number of public servants, this amount will be significantly higher and is probably already at the top of the 10% reduction in the resources that are now needed for public sector salaries. But that's not the point. It's a reduction. In fact, it's not about reducing wages, it's about reducing the allowance, which is just by law. I also remember that we used to have some extensions to the permanence that was the employer's business. The employer can also today, by means of his regulation, probably his staff for permanence, for the effects resulting from this, when someone is longer in his company, he can give such an supplement. But what happens to us is that someone works in a company for 20 years and goes among public servants, and this employer has to give him an immediate 20 years of work, so to speak, an allowance at work. I strongly agree that there is somewhere to start and that an example needs to be set. However, I expect that this move will succeed first in this House - and therefore I also oppose this amendment - that the matter will succeed in negotiating with the unions, because all public sector employees need to be aware that the economy needs to be burdened, in fact to burden the budget and to increase the money available for investment for development. So I hope that this gesture, of us parliamentarians, and I hope that everyone in the public sector, the unions, will bear fruit. However, I expect the government to start taking action in areas where there is too much employment or regulation in the way that this employment has increased to an excessive extent. Just one case. In the area of education in seven, eight years, in our budget, the amount for parental contributions for the payment of kindergartens has increased from approximately 90 million to 250 million per household. This was the effect of all the supplements to pay, negotiations, collective negotiations, the ministry with the unions of education and, of course, all the other increases. That was an effect in about seven years. I cannot support this amendment in any way for the reasons I have stated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you once again and remind you once again to focus on the content of Article 10 or the amendment. Please, we are also drawing this debate, or this debate further needlessly, because we will still have a lot of opportunity at the next point to discuss these matters, but please once again, the amendment to Article 10, the amendment to the proposal is that this Article be deleted. Yes or no, that's what we're talking about. Mr. Milan Squeakl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. I hope, however, that you will allow me to respond to at least some of the Minister's inappropriate statements, which, in the course of the debate on Article 10, discusses many things, which does not belong there. I would start with a question to my fellow Member, who said that his salary would be reduced by 6%, or maybe he belongs to that group of mayors who will be raised by 26% at the same time. But that's less important. Gentlemen, the question that we are discussing today is not whether this, as the Minister says, costs us 700 billion. That's not even a question. I hope it's not a question of whether our wages cost us 700 billion. The question, Mr. Minister of Public Administration, should be: Do we allocate the money we have for wages in such a way as to ensure that those who receive this money are adequately active and that the country is therefore effective? And, Minister, I would fully agree with you, and I would support everything you suggest if the government supported us not to end the anti-corruption commission. [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] I'll tell you what this has to do with anything. [[...]] It's pure demagogy. The minister said that some ministers will receive a net reduction of 20 to 25 euros. At the same time, the same government says that we will have a very complicated income to determine whether all ministers, state secretaries, have declared all revenues on the basis of global income, discussed this in some, if not others, at least a lay group of Members and Members. You say that the government cares about increasing efficiency. I would like to tell you, however, that if you want to increase efficiency, I quote, the World Development Report, in 1997, that in order to increase the efficiency of the public sector, in addition to the appropriate design of incentives for good work, to create barriers to arbitration and corruption. And you're not doing any of this today. You're removing your incentives, because when you do this today, I assume that the ruling coalition will have to support it, create pressure on the unions. And instead of negotiating ways and creating incentives for better public sector work, you will primarily design or end some social dialogue. Here I agree with my colleague Brenčič. This issue should be addressed by 0.5%, 0.3%, within the framework of labour legislation, but not through another demagogic move by this government. That is why I say that the demagogue move of this government is that we have here before the Slovenian public a discussion on whether a Member deserves 20 or 15 000 higher or lower net salary. Is the minister, the minister first, the minister second, the minister third, deserving of such or other wages? These are not questions at all, Mr. Minister of Public Administration. If you were the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Wages, I'd agree with you. However, since you are the Minister of Public Administration to create the conditions for the sector to work effectively and to create barriers to arbitrary and corrupt action, but as a government you will not agree to abolish the anti-corruption commission, then you create a lot of fog here. So the effect of this rejection of the amendment will, in particular, be a great pressure on the union. I wonder whether this will also be the way the government will respond to the criticism of the European Commission that we have problems in the pension system. My fellow Member, Mr Potts, has made this very clear. The abolition or reduction of the allowance at working hours, sometimes called past work, from 0.5 to 0.3 will be transferred to the entire economy on the same day as the collective agreement or general collective agreement, as proposed by the government in the collective agreement law. This will reduce wages for many people, have a number of problems to understand, a little less resources in the budget, and in particular reduce pension bases. And I wonder if that's how you'll solve some of the mistakes you've made in the pension register. I cannot help but support the amendment of the Group of Members. Now for what Mr. Secretary has said. Mr Minister, if you, as a government, believe that there is a legal void, then I suggest that you order the Minister of Finance to stop the payroll today and to reduce the item 0.5 to 0.0 in that computer program there. Because, Mr. Secretary, you said there was a legal void. If there is a legal void, you said that if we accepted this amendment, it would be a legal void. You know, we're in the dark of what kind of reading, the government has the right, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to form an appropriate so-called harmonisation amendment, and you can't say that if we accept this amendment, it will be a legal void. If this amendment is adopted, then you will have to do something or, as I said, suggest to the Minister of Finance that he throw it out of the payroll. But it's not here to "bluff" us so we can't support it because there's going to be a legal void. If a legal void arises, because if the procedure is not completed, you know what to do. A transitional provision shall be introduced. But you're doing something else, and you're here in front of the Slovenian public, scaring us not to support the amendment, because it's going to be a legal void, and you need this article to press on 150 000 unionists in the public sector, and as a result, 600, 700, 950 thousand are all employees in Slovenia in the private sector. That's why you need this. Whether it's a way of solving or pursuing what is called social dialogue, I don't know. I have to tell you, of course, that before approximately, if I am not mistaken, 17 years was in the former country and then in 1991 at the invitation of Mr Peterlet and Mr Drnovška in Slovenia a number of international institutions. And they went into this appendix to the past work, and they said, "Why on earth do you have in this country," and we know when it came to, "appendipation to the past work?" And after we have explained to them that this is one of the incentives where you appreciate the experience of people working in the public sector or in the private sector, that this is one of the ways that you, of course, retain institutional knowledge, of course they have forgotten this idea. But you're 16, 17 years old. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The World Bank, etc., came up with an idea because of course you want, because you can't otherwise reduce the pressure in the state budget. [[..]] One of the colleagues today spoke about what a problematic state account we have because 40% is in there for wages, but there are, I don't know, 10% to 15%. Forgotten Sir, who said this, that, of course, the state budget provides money for teachers' salaries, etc., in primary schools, that much is being done locally and does not tell me that administrative units do not provide a service for, I would say, citizens and citizens of the individual municipality are, of course, financed from the state budget. This is how we talk about having a much more rational operation at the community level, because some of the functions between municipalities and the state in funding have been divided by mostly state-funded, but they are always carried out at local level. When we get out of this room, it's all local. And all public spending is carried out locally, so of course this is not an appropriate claim. I want to say that if we also have 40%, international comparisons will show that this is completely consistent with what we have in comparable developed countries. Why is this important, Mr. Secretary? Because studies show that you cannot carry out the activities of the state if you do not have capable public servants, public officials, and if you want opera singers, the cleaner would not mention because most cleaners, as far as I know in the state administration, work through cleaning services and would advise you to see if they are well protected in labour legislation. In short, to discuss that 700 billion or 40% is something that is wrong is a basic misunderstanding of what a state is. The function of the State is to provide services for citizens and citizens. And only well-managed and well-rewarded, with appropriate incentives, encouraged staff will be able to provide such services. I would still say that to abolish just as in some decree on officials, in the law on salaries, in addition to past work, would be applicable to work in some other legislation, in some other way. When, as colleagues say, you and the social partners agree on this approach, then come to the National Assembly. Everything else is demagogy. And after 13 months of rule, if you accept this today, of course Mr Janša will be able to boast that, apart from not knowing what he has already abolished, but the stickers, and reducing notary services, he has now reduced his salaries to officials. But in between, there's a lot of darkness going on. We will end the anti-corruption commission and, of course, disable it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u51	Mr. Squeakle, let's hold on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u52	It's working. [[...]] And at this meeting of the National Assembly, we will do a lot of other stupid things, which will make 10% of this money, Mr Virant, 10% of the 700 billion, pay 70 billion more because the government is making bad decisions. You know, of course, I mean the unnecessary payment of interest, the unnecessary debt of Darsa, which I doubt will be accepted at this meeting. Mr. Virant, I listened to you in detail. You said you'd give nine reasons, I managed to write five. So I don't know who the other four are. But what you said today is demagogy for me. The MPs of the ruling coalition will just vote the way they twist your hands. Of course, I will not support this, and I will support the amendment of colleagues from Social Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle. Mr Kontic Boyan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I don't have a problem. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u55	I'd like to ask if you could stop the conversation because I didn't give you my word. Here you go, Mr. Kontic, continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I will, of course, support the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group. In doing so, let me say that I am not burdened with wage levels and would support the proposal of a minister who would say: We are reducing wages by 10% to all officials or as much as it takes for this country to survive and that the government is functioning normally. But not in the way you did it this time, by reducing it from 0.5 to 0.3. But not because the salaries of the officials will be reduced as a result, it is least problematic for all of us sitting here in the hall, but because it will signal to the others that the matter continues this way. And probably this percentage of 0.5 won't stop at 0.3 will also fall to 0.0, but where people are much more sensitive to this supplement than we are in the National Assembly. There's a lot of reason to support this amendment. And when you speak, Mr. Secretary, of the privileges, someone can already have the privileges. Usually, the privilege is spoken of by those who just know it. This privilege of 0.5% on past work or for permanence, or whatever, a work-life allowance, is a percentage that everyone has. How we calculate it and how it can be calculated for mayors in a way that everything is as it should be, on the basis of the salary and not for other officials. The approach is wrong. Everyone should, like the mayors, account for the allowance for past work. And there's no need for that from 0.5 to 0.3 because we're all going to be in the same position. And speaking of privileges. They are privileges, but not in this house parliamentary. However, there are privileges for those who go to this House of Parliament, the secretaries of State, and for those who sit in various supervisory councils, and who are therefore rewarded, in addition to their salary, which is now higher than that of Parliament, for the meetings of the Supervisory Councils. I am in favour of taking the approach to solving this problem, if this is really a problem, in a different way than the one you have proposed today with this law. Which somehow I can't get rid of the feeling that we're behaving, or you're acting like hyperactive kids who have to do something, and the result of work isn't necessarily that good. This needs to be addressed systematically, as the government always likes to stress when it rejects opposition proposals and comprehensively resolve proposals. This reduction from 0.5 to 0.3 will also be reflected in all other employees in the Republic of Slovenia. Sooner or later.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. At the same time, Mr Rezman, I apologize for not having previously assessed that you have a replica of the Minister's performance and I have written you as a debater. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I, too, do not have enough time to be able to answer all the 9 announced arguments, and I have not heard all of them, even though I have tried to be attentive. There's something I'd like to answer. It was said that an amendment would result in a legal void, so to speak anarchy, that we would not know what to do. I would like to remind the Minister that the proposed amendment is a consequence - this is a consequence of some of the events that have happened before, and it is a response to what you have proposed. This is not the cause, this is the answer to the previously caused cause. As far as the legal void is concerned, I am not a lawyer myself, but I remember that we still have a law in force on Members who regulate this matter. I believe that Article 24 of the Law on Members states how this past work is accounted for. We have not changed it so far; the most recent purified text of this law is still in force. I don't know if we could then say that we are working in a legal vacuum, or even that we are creating a legal void for the amendment applicants. Well, that's one thing. That's another word. You've made it clear to me that it's not true that I'm advocating for public servants and other workers you're predicting in a similar way, what's now going on in the field of civil servants' salaries. That's right. I'm in favour of them. Because I don't understand this logic so that -- and we can check it in a year, in two years, in three, in five -- so I don't understand this logic that the reduction of the percentage for the past work will result in an increase in their salaries. Parents find new logic, it's the title of a book written by Fuchs. It's been a long time since I've had this in my hands, but that's all I can remember, there's no rational defense in the logic textbook. We, at least some, advocate that what you are predicting in the introduction should not happen to public servants, older generations and other employees. That's why you wrote about orientation, direction and facilitating your negotiating position. Just by the way, because we've all talked in a row about the need to make a deal. I agree. We need to make a deal. And let me remind you - I will not talk about it now, then at the salaries of the officials - that we have another document, a document called the framework for reforms, which is supposed to contribute to a better life for the Slovenes and the Slovenians. There we foresee a different procedure for regulating this past work.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I will not convince anyone whether to support this amendment or vote against it. I'll be against it myself, but I'd like to draw your attention to something else. I was very pleased with Mr Brenčič's earlier opinion on this subject, and I might have upgraded it myself. Although this is a very attractive question at this point, because it is a state of emergency and we have it built into our system. However, I agree with all those who say that a thorough reflection is needed. But there's something else I need to warn you about. This also works like a stick with two ends. The fact is that this supplement is important right now because we have such a system of payroll. If it were a different system, it could be zero after all; or it could also be 150%, it would bring exactly as much as it is now when it's 0.5. It's exactly the same if the payroll system was that way. So it's not some one and only one, and it's a priority thing that's worth it, I don't know, going out with my bare hand in the fire. And you need to think about it. See, in Slovenia it is widely known and we have all come to accept that anyone who loses a job at the age of 45 will find it very difficult to get a job. Why is that? After all, at 45 years of age, people are still willing, willing to work, even the health situation can still be fine, but employers have calculated something else. Something else. This 0.5 brings so much interest and I am automatically more expensive because I have so many years of age, automatically, but the employer doesn't even know if I'm capable, whether I'm not capable or good, really I have some work experience, but it's not necessarily good work experience that the employer will benefit from it. But I'm automatically more expensive because of this accounting factor. So the question is, if we don't have to think about another accounting system here as well. Look, the fact that this is a factor and that I'm more expensive at my age of course has a positive and negative side. The positive thing is, if I get a job these years, I'll automatically get a higher salary. That's right. But what about the other side, what if I don't get a job because the employer prefers to take the one that has a smaller - 0.5 - less bring the 0.5 and is cheaper because of it. And it's exactly the same as the employer's about performance. I'd rather have the same job opportunities as a younger one, and my employer would test me if I were capable, and then give me something, just like he'll probably give the younger one something to keep him. That's what they say. It's a stick with two ends. That's why I'm not going to put my bare hand in the fire after the bones because of this 0.5 or 0.3. Because in the final stage, there can be a two-sword. But I agree, and I confess that to all those who advocate that they bring something at this point, but it doesn't mean that in a year, two, three, four more such systems of accounting will be in place. I'd rather have a different score. And as far as I know this legislation from this area, where there are several laws, decrees and the like, what has never been said before is also foreseen, a system of progress, a hierarchy of progress. And I'm going to make progress with the years, if I'm successful, but I'm going to make progress not because I'm older, but because I'm going to be successful, because my employer is going to see some guarantee that I'm going to bring him something more, and he's going to put me in a higher class. And I'm going to replace 0.5 immediately or more than 0.5. Therefore, because of my age, progressing from my point of view of success does not seem to be a good move. And it also seems more fair to me that if someone is more concerned - and by the way, when we talk so much about some successful, good, hardworking, friendly public administration. And there's a system where it doesn't matter whether you're better or not because you're making progress because that 0.5 is what you're bringing. The senior promotion system because you're good because your boss puts you up there, but it's stimulating for the employee, and for the employer. And that's why I said I wouldn't convince anyone how to vote, I told them. But I've also said my thoughts on this. I'm not saying it's the only rule, but it's one of the possibles. One of the possible and as far as I know, let's say, in neighbouring countries, there's more of this system of class progress than there's a priori factor that gives you something to do with the number of working years. And I don't think they did it by accident, because this system was built a little bit longer than we did -- so good, we have a country that's not as old as theirs, so they've already put this period through and they've come up with some system that I thought was effective. And I think it's really effective and also stimulating, and it also reflects, let's say, if we talk about public administration, with customers, because those who are more friendly officials, let's say, if we narrow this area down a little bit, they'll probably get some commendation, and their bosses will probably add something to it, and they'll put it in a higher class, and they'll be stimulated to be kinder and more successful. But we don't have that, we were just saying that we have to be more successful and more friendly - just how? With the reward system this is done everything - I speak in general about kindness without political omens, only as the party that appears at the window, nothing else. One part of thinking, one system of thinking, and I'm not saying that you're wrong, but I think we have just as much right as the other that advocates a different system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u61	Mr. Secretary has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Some opposition Members, as well as Mr Rezman, feel that they do not want to hear or do not want to understand certain matters. See if I'm systematically trying to show you what's really going on today. In 2002, a law on the public sector wage system was adopted. And this law provides that functional salaries are regulated by a decree, that directors' salaries are regulated by a regulation and that public servants' salaries are regulated by a collective contract for the public sector and collective agreements of activities. This law was adopted in the previous term, it is good, it has good principles because it is based on the uniformity and transparency of the pay system. So the ambition was to regulate the pay system in the public sector. And now we're here, the government has set up executive salaries, first of all intervention, then by a regulation that will enter into force with 1.3. Now we're regulating the functional salaries and, of course, these are ours. And we're in a situation where we have to cut down, when we have to settle our salaries. And we will continue to negotiate with the unions, as we have done so far, to conclude a collective agreement for the public sector. Now I ask you why, if this supplement 0.3 is so wrong in the public sector, why is this negotiating ground on paper already, I think more than a year. That's what the previous government said. Mr. Squeakle, you voted for him. The former government has adopted a bargaining base supplement of 0.3%. And once again, I'll explain why. Because in the new system, the structure of the civil servant’s salary changes. Because we want things, as the law has instructed, to make them uniform and transparent so that the work is valued with a basic salary and that some supplements are not distorted. It is said that the teacher’s place of work is worth being evaluated by basic salary and that the allowance should go to the person who performs work in special circumstances, on Sundays, on bad working hours, under radiation, doctors and so on. That's the story. And so if we want to keep the same work-life allowance unchanged, it has to be 0.3%. And I'd like to see a negotiator on the government side who would say calm souls, and we're going to raise that to 0.5, thereby increasing the amount of wage funds automatically by 4%, the average working time is 20 years, times 0.2 is 4%. That's very irresponsible. And from the opposition side, when you are not responsible for these negotiations, when you are not responsible for this budget, it is an unbearable ease of decision-making on the system. And if you think that what we're talking about today doesn't affect the whole system, which is 700 billion tolls per salary, you're narrow-sighted and short-sighted. This is where we fix our wages. Have you ever heard of an expression of exemplary conduct? And once we've arranged the summit, we'll also give orientation and anchor for everything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman, you have a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u64	Now we've got a real lesson. Mr. Rezman and the opposition don't understand. A little earlier, one of the coalition colleagues said that the stick had two ends. I wonder if there is at least a theoretical possibility that Mr Virant does not understand something at the other end. I guess not. But I allow this theoretical possibility; only that he is a man who is not a man to argue, but to command. And some of us just don't let ourselves be commanded. Give us this right to declare it publicly. Secondly, you say we raise to 0.5. No, you're dropping to 0.3. You don't know the interlocking sequence. You don't know what's causing it and what's causing it. That's really what elementary logic teaches. That's what kids in elementary school understand. Maybe I get it wrong, I don't know, I'm right, and I studied these books on logic, I had to because I'm such an expert. There's something small left, not much, but something small. Then you say it's an outrageous, unbearable irresponsibility. You know what, tell us, let's stay home, Members. First, we lose our wages, because that would be the best way to save money. So it was in the Paris commune, but the Paris commune is over 200 years old. I hope you don't kick us back into the transition from the Middle Ages to the New Ages. And if we stay at home, then indeed the executive power will be more or less benevolent to us, but she has made her own decision; but we do not agree with it. We have all the legal rights, not only the legal and legitimate right to disagree and to say so. Past work, again that stick that has two ends; whether we are older, I also judge among those who already have more than half the required working years for the pension, whether we are better, whether we are more experienced, whether we are wiser, or worse, etc., really this is not a matter of some mere average. But why don't we ask ourselves, is it not possible that this has passed work or an addition to what we have done in the past, perhaps even some compensation for what we have already created for those who are not yet creating anything? Is it not a compensation for those who have allowed younger people to study, to get jobs, to get some technology, etc., to get into the hands with which they can create new value, and perhaps to separate something for those who will retire at the time or at the time. So, Mr. Virant, please. Take note of the advice of your fellow Member that the stick has two ends, and do not insult us, how unbearable we are, how incomprehensible we do not understand anything, and how you are the only one who knows everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u65	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would like to clarify a few things first, of course I will not explain for a long and broad time why, in order to support the amendment, I would also like to know a few answers to the questions raised with regard to Article 10 and the amendment tabled in our Group of Members. First time. It's not clear to me, I admit that I didn't listen very carefully to the minister when he talked about the 14 billion, which, according to my mathematical knowledge, is 2% of the 700 billion, and then a colleague explained again about the 14 billion and talked about it, 0.2% of the supplement at work is 14 billion. If we know what to count, it's a billion 400 million. If the gross salaries of all civil servants amount to 700 billion in the state budget, it is said that savings at a thousand 700 billion are not exactly devastating, but I would say so. I understood the minister when he said that when we moved from the public servants' payroll system, which is not public officials, except for mayors, who are also officials, where the allowance at work time is calculated on the basic salary, it is, say, a coefficient of 53 thousand dollars or what it is this year, times 8, if some well-paid public servant is then about 400 thousand or 450 thousand gross. Today, this staff member receives 0.5% of the supplement per year, which is reached or a maximum of 20%, as is the case with the officials. The difference with officials is that even under the new system, officials are actually paid down. This means that Members, ministers and judges have no basis and on the basis of the supplement, but the whole salary is basically also the basis, at the same time it will be an effective reduction in wages; this does not mean anything to us, because, in any case, our base for a pension is higher than the maximum pension. I hope we all understand that. We don't give a shit. Those of us who understand the matter must be totally mindful of how high an allowance we have per year, because nothing helps us to measure our pension, because our pension will be maximized given that it will be measured maximum, given that the base will be high enough. So nobody can tell us that we're selfish here. And that's why it's demagogic to talk about being a role model. However, the State secretaries, today's state secretaries, must set the pattern. I don't think anyone's demeaning what we read in the media, in the newspapers, I haven't seen it on TV, because I don't have time to watch it, but in some newspapers I read that the state secretaries' performance allowances, which is not a crowd, are true, but they are - I think there are about 14 or something like that - 100%; which means that if the secretary of state today has a gross salary of one million to make it easier, they get an allowance at work if it's 20 years at work, 4% times 500 thousand. But when he gets a new marriage, he's going to get 0.3% because you're going to accept it anyway, but he's going to get a million gross. Why? Because he was enrolled in that class, which he classified as an effective gross salary that he now has, no matter what its real basis is. He will have 200% base, current, transferred to 100% of his class. Which means that, instead of what I said, at 20 years of working time times 0.5, he's going to have a 10% supplement, which means 50,000 today, and then he's going to have 0.35 times a million. So he's not going to know practically anything, while other officials who have gross salaries are going to know each other as he is, without any additions. But I'm saying we don't really care. But the worst part of all is that we don't know how much right now - I understand that public servants will go from 0.5% to 0.3% and that they won't know it if their base, which they will cover, is supposed to, of all the old bases and all the supplements, will rise by 40%. Tell me, Mr. Secretary, will it rise by 40% to all public servants? Will they have the same pay effectively? I'll read it differently. [[...]] I read in the papers, and in here in your explanations, that a lot of public servants' salary will go down. And that's why I'm asking you how you're going to compensate them. In addition, if we really have the intention of harmonising the allowance at work due to the way in which the gross salary is accounted for in the current way, then please say this: from 2006 onwards, the employee who worked 20 years and worked this year 21 will receive for 20 years still 0.5 and from here on out nothing whole will have to get the effect of as much money as he did before. Because this is about what it looks like to be an attack on functional wages, but we need to know that 0.2% is a small amount for such high wages in relation to all the other people in this country. It is said that it is not at all a matter of lowering salaries for officials, but of lowering wages throughout the country, and that is what you want to achieve. And that's what you're going to go to that item, which is essentially the most important for the employer, actually because it's related, however, to the fact that a person with a lot of work experience, at least in my opinion, can contribute more to his job than someone who's barely made it into a work relationship. And here I think that, of course, the employer - I am talking about the economy now - will be able to divide the work of the rest as he would like. And if he wants to reward the workers who have worked with him for a long time, he will give them additions, but in our mentality, our Japs, which we have here in the economy, in the leadership of economic organisations, of course, will result in a completely different, contrary. They're going to be looking for all the ways they're looking for them to get people to pay their wages as much as possible. Attacks on transport costs at work, attacks on food costs during work, now attacks on the supplement for working hours, then the attack on allowances for working conditions will be due to the fact that we know that employers in hair make sure that working conditions are exactly the minimum of what the law prescribes and even for a millimeter do not go better. So if we look at, say, what happened in the crash in Canada and what happened in the accident, unfortunately we don't have a lot of them, and what would happen if, say, a thousand meters underground, something like this happened to us, I wonder if the workers in the mine could have such working conditions with us so that we could wait 36 hours before they came to rescue them and stay alive. So here I'd like to ask, yes, I'll be right out, I won't talk anymore, no, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u68	Thank you. It's a replica, actually. I'd ask you once again, don't scare others to defend their wages. The fact that public servants are being reduced by the reform of the wage system in the public sector is not the case. It's not true. I didn't mean to be insulting, and I apologize, Mr. Rezman, if that's what you understand. I didn't mean to be insulting, but I want to point out 100 times if I have to. I can read to you the article of the law on this subject, the first paragraph of Article 49, which is intact: "If a public servant, after fixing his salary in accordance with the provisions of this Act, has received a lower salary than the amount of the salary fixed by the rules applicable until the application of this Act has begun, he shall be paid a higher amount of wages until the equalization of both amounts." That's the first thing. And the second thing, the calculations show what you found very well at the beginning and you've come to the right conclusion that the supplement for the work well 0.3 in the new salary system based on the base salary means in the mass, in the amount and on the individual level so much plus, the minus littleness might be, as is 0.3 or as is 0.5 per the old system. Therefore, please do not say that the reduction of the labour-time allowance from 0.5 to 0.3, or this proposal made by the government to the unions, reduces the salaries of public servants. Then I would ask you once again, Mr Ptrč, Mr Cvikl, your government gave a negotiating base of 0.3 per year in the public sector in the previous term. Why? Due to the fact that Minister Bohinc, with the law on the system of wages, has well set up a wage reform in the public sector and this negotiating platform has also been good and rational, but it has not done so. And I guess if I were to take the matter forward, I'd find myself in a situation just like this here in the National Assembly. It's just not what you're saying, it's not going down! Not to mention this, this is indeed a demagogy that this also has an impact on working time in the private sector. You all know that this is regulated by a collective agreement between employers and employees.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I'll give two replicas. First Mr. Squeakle, please. Then Mr Potts, then Mr to the third.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u70	Mr. Virant, it's true. The previous government put this at the negotiating table, and you're legitimizing it. Sir, if you'll excuse me. What you say is, of course, slight ease, as you think it is necessary to rule. You've been quoted very nicely as "the unladen breaker of iron laws", Sunday's diary, today's issue. Look, Mr. Virant, the difference is that--I said it earlier. I will support this if you ensure that, of course, you keep all the legislation that prevents those who, in saying, are now "something less" from getting it in any other way. Then of course, Mr Virant, because you say so - you say that we will now provide some 700 billion more effectively allocated and these people will sacrifice something. Then, Mr Virant, you must propose to the government today that we maintain the corruption commission. To keep this committee out of what is a key problem. It's very easy, you know, to say that people worked for free on the reform committee, and then to make contracts with some of these groups. You said we accepted that in the previous government. It is true, as a starting point for negotiations, and it is necessary to negotiate with trade unions, not to come to the National Assembly, to shake hands with your ruling coalition and then to say, this is now the law. We can't negotiate out of this. And so, of course, I say, Mr Virant, if this government were to rule less easily, then this debate would take place during the discussion on the use of resources from the state budget. I'd say we'd save that much and that much money. But this government didn't do it, Mr. Virant. This government, as you yourself said, has decided somewhere to have such an or different army, and has therefore given an additional 36 billion to the military. I would prefer to give an additional 17 or 14 billion to the more efficient public sector. And you say, we've already spent there, now we have to save here, the way we save is not the negotiation, but the adoption of the law. And of course, I don't think that's a responsible way of managing it, but it's about breaking it. It's about breaking. Okay, you're gonna break the hands of your MPs in the ruling coalition. Allow us to challenge this here because we have this constitutional right when [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u71	Your time is up, Mr. Squeakle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u72	I'll be done. And it's not really here to attack us that the previous government has accepted something, and that's why you have to do it now. It's a completely different context than you suggest.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u74	However, I am also applying for a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u75	Mr. Miran Potch has the replica. I warn you of a time you have very little.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Virant, you know very well that the guidance is only some of the facts of all half-truths. And you know well that half-truth is much worse than lies. And that's what you do. How can we talk about this, compare the proposal and enforceable fact? True, we have proposed, but we have regulated all the changes through an agreement with the unions. You explicitly violate your own signature and your own promise. How can you ignore the fact that in government law you wrote in explanation that changing the work-life allowance will be a strong element for you in negotiations with trade unions? How can you say that it is not true that in economic and social reforms you want to change what you have written - an allowance for working time in a permanent allowance? [[It's a warning sign for the end.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u77	Time's up, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u78	And these are all the important changes that you silence to show your interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u79	Mr. Willie Rezman, you have a replica as a third.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u80	We talked about this 0.3 in the past weeks and months or months, not because it came last minute. If this were a serious intention to negotiate, then we would be preparing simulations so that we could see how things are going to happen, trends and so on. Of course, it was none of this, or it was not presented to us because it might not have been pleasant. I'm asking, how long will the nominal wage remain the same? How long before public servants have nominally the same salary? Will nothing ever happen? If nothing ever happens, then why are we changing that? Why rape people into conflict if there are no special effects? We just can't all understand that it's less. There's probably another course to be done in this regard. If we had simulations to prove it, we'd probably have less talk and a better deal. If that were a serious intention, and if it were evident to the opposition that it had already proposed it in the previous term, in the previous year, how did you hide it all the way to the last one, which is the last thing that this has ever set out in the proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u82	Thank you very much. We did not hide anything because, in the case of functional salaries, the previous government had never talked about Appendix 0.3, but the unions, i.e. public servants, offered a work-life allowance of 0.3. And here you have to admit that you're in trouble. I believe that perhaps Mr Squeakl does not know that he voted in favour of such a proposal in the government. I guess the thing got past him somehow. This was proposed as a negotiating starting point by the previous government, a smart proposal, a rational proposal, a blue proposal and we keep this starting point forward and it is on the negotiating table. Look, without the signature of the unions under the collective agreement, this Appendix 0,3 will not be in the public sector. Which means that we will still have to argue that they accept this proposal, which means that due to the addition to working hours, wages do not increase. Our logic is this, first of all, to show ourselves that we are capable of doing this, and by the way, to remove this privilege, which is indisputable and also the Secretary of State has it, Mrs Pečanova, so it is not exactly what you said before. Today, 0.5 is charged to the Secretary of State on a full salary, not just on the basics, as you and I do, and it is new that it will receive 0.3 on the same full salary. It is said that his salary from this title will be reduced by exactly 4%, assuming 20 years of working time. That's 100% business. And Mr. Rezman. See, the whole concept of wage reform in the public sector - once again set up in 2002, well placed - is based on some starting point where you obviously have not deepened. I'm not saying you don't understand, but you obviously don't. It says that wage imbalances in public servants will be eliminated in such a way that no one will receive a reduction in nominal wages, but that those who will be placed higher in the new system will grow faster in the coming years because half of the escalation, i.e. annual coordination with inflation, will be allocated to the so-called disproportionate fund.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Pavel Gantar has the floor. I would like to remind you that the time for the debate has run out for Mr Žnidaršič, who has 12 seconds at his disposal, Mrs Patrati and Mr Kumer. Here you go. Are you registered?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u84	I've got half an hour left. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u85	I'm sorry, but that's all I'd like to say is that the following Members have been tabled for discussion: Mr Brenčič Stanislav, Terčon, Anderlič, Cvikl, Gulič.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u86	Mr Vice-President, you have warned me that others have been reported, of course, I do not have half an hour, but much less, because my colleague Squeakl has also applied. In short, I would like to point out in particular that what I have already mentioned before will be my support for the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, because I think that this amendment simply brings things back to the old way it is. Otherwise, I can't understand him. Above all, I would like to point out that I would be happy to support not only this amendment but not support it, but I would support the law and the decree in its entirety if I were confident that it actually leads to the goal presented by the Minister, to a more transparent, more equitable, pay-as-you-go system in the public service segment, public officials, senior officials or directors or anything and public-loved and other appointed officials. Don't go there! The story that the Minister brought to Parliament today is a school story about what we call accidental consequences. When this government wants to achieve a specific goal, not only does it not achieve that goal, but it achieves exactly what it has been striving to accomplish or not achieve. And that's today. This is the story of the unsolicited consequences and the first one, the most obvious, is the unfortunate 0.3 with which he sang, is that the unions of the manoeuvre have overlooked and even further organised themselves and will have an extremely difficult situation in the negotiation of the new collective agreement. Not only has it not reached its goal, but it is even moving away from its goal. At the same time, I would say that maybe we're not so stupid that we don't want to or we don't understand, but how well do we understand you. We also understand the law, the decree on the salaries of public officials, the regulation on the salaries of high officials and the collective agreement. We're not that stupid. But once again, we'll tell you very precisely that you can't run public sector negotiations by trying to regulate some anomalies in the salaries of public officials we find that they are not. You can't say that the problem with the million-dollar salaries of directors who were was how the salaries of public officials were arranged. We know well that this is not the case, we know well that the problem of additions, which is considered an addition, or that it can work when the director is still up, down and down and there and, of course, a lot of other things. And that's a story that doesn't drink water. About the permanent allowance, it's a matter of agreement. Of course, he is not necessarily like that or otherwise. We could agree that we have other mechanisms. If I were joking, I would even say that you are Members, Ministers and beloved officials, we do not deserve a permanent allowance, but on the contrary. We deserve an allowance for instability. We're a very volatile category, you have to be aware of that, and it should be arranged in a very different way if we're on it. But I'm not gonna talk about it. Of course, the problem that appears to be a great deal, but it is of course that human capital is very important that this human capital is rewarded after years also with certain ratings, permanence and so on, not only here, not only in the public sector, especially in the private sector, but elsewhere. First of all, I'd like to draw your attention to something else. Because there have been a lot of stories that have come together in this one-chain, which is very simple, and this is a story about the public sector, about employees, about the efficiency of the public sector - I agree, Mr Vice-President, this is not a topic, so I will not be a principle either. I'm just gonna say one thing. If someone thinks he's too busy in the public sector, it's either possible or not. But if someone thinks that too many employees in the public sector will be reduced by holding down the "pays", then I will tell him what the next unsolicited consequence is. They'll go the best, the ones they can go to, and the others will be the ones who have nowhere to go. The result is poor, diversified and ineffective public sector. So, of course, pay attention, pay attention to the consequences that you did not anticipate, and they do appear to you. That's what I'd end up with.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u87	Mr. Tarchoon Davorin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, Minister, you've talked a lot about role models. I wonder, of course, why the government has not already taken advantage of the prospect, why you did not lower your wages and then come to the independent branch of power, the legislative authority, with some proposal for systemic regulation. You've come with one example where I think you'd be more "damaged" by others than the government itself and you're trying to lead the matter in the right direction. I have no doubt that the public trumpets under the control of the SDS and the government, or the government coalition, will somehow report in such a way that some members of the opposition wanted to raise the allowance to 0.5, but the government survived to 0.3. But he didn't make it. They'll ask themselves a more objective question. You, Mr. Minister, have already been to a press conference, I think I've been looking at something about where you set your example, about which you're talking, and you said yourself your salary is going to go down somehow, I don't know a couple of ten thousand, I don't know 40. You also said on your parent's working body that the indisputable fact remains that if you have an additive 0.3 instead of 0.5, that this nominally means less. That's right. But you don't tell me anything else, you don't tell me where you're going to be, and which minister is going to be in the first grade, minister of the second grade, and I don't know which class, and maybe one of them is going to get paid because it's going to be the first grade. You do not tell which minister is sitting on which Supervisory Committee and which State Secretary, Members of course do not sit and how many fees they receive. We've read some data in newspapers, but not all because they're protected by the law, and how much they "cash" there, and you don't tell me who's got a performance contract going on. You don't say that. And the undeniable fact is that, as I said, some Members of the ruling coalition who don't know exactly, some of them are "frozen," and they won't mind, then they'll be bent on how the government brought them around. This has also been the case in previous mandates. And our governments, the executives, also wanted to "bring a little bit around". I must say that the legislature has ever wanted to jump a little bit; this has failed in law, and it has failed the executive to break this balance, even in the end, of some kind of power relationship, of some autonomy it has. Apparently your voting machine will do this precedent today. You must have trained them well. There's something certain, Mr. Secretary. In all of this round-trip, in addition to some bentils, others are not, because perhaps they have elevated mayoral salaries, which are also mayors, will be quite a "sourball" of approximately 150 000 public servants who cannot go to any class, have only a coefficient - Minister One, Minister Two, or Member Two, Member Two, too, we will survive, of course, without problems that cannot sit on any supervisory board and that have no implementing contracts. And all in order for the government to boast that it has "split" a few billion for the salaries of public servants, including itself. In the same session, she "bubbled" the country, at only one point, for 250 billion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u89	Mr. Anderlich Anton has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u90	A man could say, perhaps, but impossible, what I'm hearing from the minister today. You might ask yourself where he's been for the last ten years, what he's been doing. How he has been involved in all the procedures for regulating wages, if you wish, in Slovenia over the last five years; but, after all these experiences, he is so disdainful that it is obvious to all in a row that we are so uneducated, because we hope to ask ourselves what we really want to do with this law. I think that the government wants to regulate something that is not ready or has not tried to deal with the most vital instrument that all modern societies have as a basis, namely to negotiate social partners, to achieve some social agreement, to achieve some balance in society. Indeed, if we are talking about how employers will be one way or another by abolishing the Chamber and so forth without one suitable representative. If we are talking about compensation for officials of certain things, which will be an example for public servants, then the unions here also have nothing else to do. In a year and no longer have you made any serious attempt - at least I did not see in any proposals - to reach an agreement with the social partners in the field of wages. Moreover, I understand that you have to make the penance that the Prime Minister has imposed on you, that what you have done in the past years and even now, either side-by-side or directly, during working hours, work in lectures, honours "cash" and so on, and now with your fingers pointing to others who are "like" bastards who are here defending the interest of trade unions, public sector workers, so that no violent action will take place through law in their basic status, position, level reached. There's no other way to understand these texts of yours than that. If you say that the wages in the global will decrease or the wages in the global will decrease, you say that you will train the system to be more stimulating and so on, meaning that, because wages are individual, they are not in the mass, they are not just some amorphous mass there and fall as far as they fall, but that means that they will have to be known from the calculation in each individual so that they can achieve this reduction in mass. That's clear, though! Will you reduce the number of employees? You won't because you're failing - you've increased them since you've been in power. All right, I'm not getting into what you're gonna do with it. But you cannot claim in your text that you will reduce this, that you will make a stimulating system that will make those who will be better, more friendly authorities, or, as one of the Members has already said, you will even increase. I understand all that. But it's usually a Pharisees, believe me, if you're working one and you're talking the other. You are the best example of doing one, and you convince us how to do the other; we know this from history and who does it, and I don't want to get involved in it. I would also tell you that the previous governments - among other things, you were in one - were when they couldn't reach whether or not they had the right solutions and so on, and if we went back 1990, there was always an attack on the so-called functionary salaries. It shows up with a finger and sets an example for people, yeah, they're bastards, they eat your bread and so on. But the salaries of Members, if you want, of officials, have been regulated and actually stable since 1992 forward, as far as the system is concerned - from the law that someone has even quoted today. And that's irresponsible. And I'm sure you don't believe what you're saying, because you would have read it differently, but you would have written it down to reduce it in a global way, and on the other hand you would have said you would increase. I even believe and know that this will be at point 2 when I look at some of the current allocations, that you will reward those you want to reward, those who think are control of the government, that they control the transparency of the work, etc., and you will lower them. But we'll talk about this later. That is why I believe that you, too, want to start dealing with social bargaining in spite of everything, and that we should go the other way, so that we can try, if nothing else, with the social partners to agree on this 0.3 and then come forward and make it legal. So far, it has never been different from the fact that an agreed agreement was enacted later, not that something had been done with the law, in one branch, in order to whip another. This is truly a perverse, arrogant, unworthy thing to do, if you want, by the governments and also by this Parliament that will do so. Is it really possible to impose so much responsibility on yourself that you will say to 150 thousand workers, "We have reduced our wages, look at the example, and you must also lower your wages." Where, in fact, what you should do is stimulate, encourage people to do better, I don't know what this was all about. This way - no.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u91	You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u92	Thank you. First of all, I must once again strongly protest that you are implying that this decree and this law indicate a reduction in public sector wages. There's no record of a downturn in public servants' wages. Yeah. You're reading a decree that regulates the salaries of officials. The mass is, therefore, the mass of salaries for officials, Mr Anderlič, will decrease by about 4% and the level of salaries of officials will decrease by about 4%, and there is no mention of any reduction in the public sector, i.e. in public officials. You just have to read things better and look at something else. That's one thing. It's about the social partnership. See, the public service allowance can only be determined by a collective contract for the public sector. So we don't have a choice. We must get to this supplement through the social partnership, we must. And if we negotiate unsuccessfully there by increasing the amount of wage funds, it is said to raise the supplement or have an extra 0.5 on a higher base, then you will have one, too, because the solution, as you yourself have seen, is temporary. First, we settle matters for ourselves and then, when we go into negotiations, we show that this negotiating platform is logical and that we also prove this by making the same allowance for ourselves. However, as far as those personal hints are concerned, I would not like to go to a personal level, but you can take your time and you can search through all the papers in the public sector for a few days, and you won't find that I would ever get from the budget, from the taxpayer's money at a time when I was either acting as Secretary of State or Minister, except for salary, anything. You won't find anything. What I'm saying is, I created my own existence before I came into office. And if you looked at my receipts, you'd see that each higher function is slightly reduced. And even when I finish my job, believe me, I will find myself in a different way than many of your ministers and Members who couldn't find a job for a year, so every month they get a full salary, and then after exactly 365 days, after the miracle, the job was found.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u94	If Mr. Minister were honest, I would go to see because he's talking about the party members, how long they've been paying, three months is when a member of the state council came out of retirement and then received a salary for one year, and then she went back to retirement, but it's out of date. But now I believe that after the news we will not read anything in any media about how you or you haven't done anything at work or, rather, you've been doing it during work. For many of the activities that were were during the work. We forget that 80 million, it's the past, there's no problem. Even now that you're teaching at that family college, it'll probably be free, that's no problem. But I'm not getting into it. Just not to tell us that we're making ourselves cry. We're talking about the law on civil servants. Is that right? I'm sorry, about the public sector salaries. However, the public sector's salaries are not those 90 Members, and I will deduct those 44 who are in opposition. It's not the public sector, but it's just this national council. And it's just a tease and a lie. Cause and effect. And if you're saying that you have to have a marriage to negotiate first, you have to do it, and you're going to end up doing it there, 0.3. Why don't you negotiate and why don't you put us all together in the same basket and negotiate together - if we really are officials, which we are also part of public servants, if that's true. Then why aren't we in the same package? Please! Make it all the same and that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you, colleague Anderlich. The following colleague of Squeakl has been reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u96	Procedurally first, but since the President has replaced him, it makes no sense. I just want the President to warn the Minister that he should remain within the 10th Amendment debate. Mr. Minister, I'm going to focus on two of your concerns. One is to lead by example, and the other is the slight ease of our discussion. First, I would say that when someone is under stress, he is usually stressed when he is found on the unreal or semi-real, then his heart starts to be faster, his mouth dries out, and a person needs plenty of water. I understand, but you know, water doesn't help with stress, it's more advisable to get back into the right thesis, and at least not to change what you once said. Why? By example, I would even believe you, Mr Minister, if you suggested in 2004 that the previous government have a minister one who will be in the 64th class. The previous government, in accordance with the Government Act, said that in one class, the 61st class, three classes should be lower, which is likely to be you, given that you are an important minister and, of course, are the Prime Minister of the Government's Personnel Service. So if we are already talking about leadership by example, then I suggest that all ministers remain in the 61st class, not that we have for the first time three types of ministers, and I have no doubt that you will be higher for three classes than your former Minister, Mr Bohinc, has proposed. Another time. If you are leading by example, I would ask you to maintain what happened in 2005 when Members, politicians, officials for the first time gave a comprehensive forecast of income, assets at home. Now, of course, as global income has entered into force in 2005, it will be necessary to maintain a comprehensive forecast of income from home, abroad and property changes at home and abroad. Keep this and then, of course, it is not a problem, you can, of course, reduce wages and we will even confirm it, that the demagogia needs to be reduced by 20,000, and of course it is only the reason that you want to break the backs of some others. I have already said that it is necessary to create incentives and we could combine, Mr Minister, if we look at and believe that colleagues in your services know this, years of work and reward efficiency or reward, where, of course, longer, longer working hours and higher performance ratings would mean higher wages and, of course, higher working age, lower pay efficiency or lower allowance. This is how people with experience are encouraged, not taken away from them first. And that's why he's going here. It's about a government with uniform ease breaking its back. You were the first minister to come to this Parliament with an unconstitutional law that broke the backs of public servants. Now, through this law, you will break your backs to the unionists at collective bargaining. And the following about slight ease. The former government proposed starting points in 2004. We are now in 2006. We expected that, of course, a key part of the social dialogue would be concluded so that we could integrate this in some way into the budgets we adopted in 2006, 2007. You have not done so, and the dialogue at the key points has not even started yet, and you will now, of course, use today's decision to break your back, and in the meantime you have already spent the money that was available to you. The government of Mr Janša, with your agreement, Mr Minister, at the government, on 13 April 2005 at a spring meeting in Cyprus and in July 2005 at a two-day session, you have already wasted what you had in the state budget. I know that it is necessary to save, but not to save on public servants, but above all not to save on public servants by putting an end to the allowance with some demagogic story here, but at the same time, of course, you are allowing the officials to do so, especially if you stop as I said at the beginning of my debate, the barriers to arbitrary and corruption. If we had this, of course you would be the minister who will increase the efficiency of the public administration, the public sector in Slovenia, and so I think that at the end of your term you will be the minister, who will mainly reveal what is good, after first breaking the backs of public servants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you, Comrade Squeakle. A replica of your performance has been signed up by the minister. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u98	At the end of the term of office, at least the Minister, who will be able to demonstrate with measurable data how much we have saved by simplifying procedures for citizens and businesses, is verifiable and can be seen every day. That's another thing. What lifts your pressure and drys your throat, I don't know, usually lifts my pressure and drys my throat when I listen, if someone looks me in the eye and lies, invents, cheats, and speaks senselessly, so we're different. For the 15th time, I'm going to reject today's thesis that by this decree and by law we are reducing the salaries of public servants or predicting a reduction in the salaries of public servants, not true, not true, not true. We are talking about the salaries of officials, the law on the system of wages and the collective agreement that we have offered does not provide for a reduction of salaries for public servants. However, as far as my salary is concerned, whether it will actually be lower or not, I can send you a payroll every month, from 1.3.2006 onwards, and you will see that from 1.3.2006 to 37,000 gross, then I can deliver this to you every month, and these are also public data we will not have any problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. I would warn the President to warn the Minister that the guest is in the House of the Legislative Branch and that he is also acting as a guest and that he chooses the values and words he makes for this speaker. Please, once again, you are a guest in this house and I suggest that you warn us that sometimes teeth need to be squeezed a little, but when something sounds to be treated like a guest in this house.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u101	Thank you for your warning. I believe the Minister has heard your directions, and I am joining him. And we are continuing the debate. Next on the log-in list. Do you have a replica of the minister, Mr. Squeakl? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u102	For a little while. I'd still ask the minister, given what he said, which of what someone said was a lie, and if you would, of course, state it with the facts. As far as your salary is concerned. Do not send it to the National Assembly, you continue to send it to Kosovo to the Commission, along with the entire property situation, but not to abolish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u103	We'll proceed immediately with the replica. For the sake of order and readiness of Members, I will read to you the list of applicants. The first word will be given to Member Gulič, followed by Member Petan, then to Member Sok, and then to Member Šteba. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Gulic. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u104	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister! Of course, the desire and willingness to settle matters must be welcomed. But that's all, actually. What I've been listening to since 9:00 a.m. today is actually dominoes falling from one lie to another. What has been read so far is said to be a proposal for a law, and what has been said on the Committee on Home Affairs has been complemented in some way today and has been said much more, at least by the Minister, as it was at the beginning, as it was probably thought. I don't want to talk about it. It is clear that there has been a lot of injustice here for all Members, 90 present and absent. In a way, we have been vilified and taken away from us also some of the matters belonging to other citizens. Indeed, we are not children here, Mr Minister, to punish them, to explain to them how they should be examples, how they should not be examples - we are examples or we are not, individually, as much as anyone tries to be an example and as much as he wants to be. Some are not just a good example, but they can be a bad example. Another thing that is also important - no one can take away our right to fight for our wages. Here was the obvious, here was the sin, here was the unheard of thing. This is a normal right that every human being has. Those who are organized in unions do so through unions, those who are otherwise, and otherwise. We're just here to say something. And this example, of course, is not a real example, but it is only in some way a fictitious image of what should be the real example. What you want is not to be an example to me, but to be the first dominoes in a line that falls. And all of these demagogic or any of the convincing methods that you're using here, they're all going to end up with this 0.5% and have 0.3, because what happens then will be an example of something. And that's how this system will collapse, otherwise the system will be established as much as the normal reward. To reward and pay within all these functions and services there are much more smart methods that can be done even within a larger range than this difference between 0.3 and 0.5. There's something else I could say. All of this, in particular your appearance and your attitude towards us Members, up to all 90, is of course such that it does not only cause thirst, it forces me to relapse, and if it happens to me, it will be the devil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Ambassador Gulic. Member Rudolf Petan has been reported. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. So I'm going against the amendment, because it's a stick with two ends, but different than I understand. I will stand against it because I do not want to harm the elderly, who, because of this way of accounting, are more expensive in the labour market and higher when this coefficient is higher, we are more expensive. And I want those of us who are already in age to be equal at the start of their youth service. I want and probably most of us want to prove with work and ability that we deserve a higher salary, and even before work, because with this way of accounting, we will have less job opportunities because we are more expensive. Because I don't want to be discriminated against as a job seeker because I'm older, it's not my fault. But it's my fault if I'm unemployed, inefficient and inefficient, and that's why this system of 0.5 if you want to be unfair to me and to the elderly in the labour market, and there's a lot of them, and they're getting more and less jobs. But the problem is not in 0.5, but in the reward system and the reward system with 0.5, with 0.2 and 0.3, it's unfair and higher when it's coefficient, it's worse. That's why I'm going against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you, Comrade Petan. Member of the Parliament, Aloise Sok, has been reported. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u108	Thank you very much. In all this debate, it seems that there are some types of opposition conflict with the government and the ruling coalition, namely those oppositions who, as a position in 2002, have been following this decision. And of course it's not a problem in everything we say, because now there's a lot of talk over this amendment about everything else. The problem is that our pay system in this area is impenetrable, uneasy, uneven, and the worst part is disproportionate. Thus, wages are not in proportion and this is the root of the problem in all of this. Of course, it is elegant in the opposition to criticize, but I have not heard in all this debate from the stand of the opposition some better solutions how to bring this story to an end. The easiest thing to say is it doesn't apply, it's wrong. Now I don't know if this proposal is to maintain 0.5% for each year of working time, the better, given the fact that, as regards the salaries of officials, this 0.5% is already set to the basic salary and the allowances. While for others in the public sector, this supplement is only on the base salary. It would be unrealistic if we didn't actually agree to equalize this system now that we're trying to put this system together for everyone. This would mean a negative signal for all those who would then negotiate in the public sector. I know it's hard to press the button when you're losing something yourself. That's hard. I would also expect the Minister not to react so vigorously to all these provocations of the opposition because there is no need to react that way. Well, we all understand what provocation is. I think the Slovenian public will understand that too. Nor do I believe that after the government today, I am sure that we would accept that the government would boast of 600 million savings. Since, as has been said several times, this savings will not be made, as some salaries, especially in the field of justice, will then be increased in accordance with the decree adopted. Nor does it need to be praised by the government. After all, the government can boast that we have met the criteria for taking over the euro, and I have heard from Mr Rope last night that this is due to the former government. Let us say that this is the credit of all governments during this period, because we have all worked to achieve this goal and that this will happen. And now we're ahead of it. And also public sector wages are actually success and previous government coalitions and this. The former adopted the law in 2002. Now we need to get this system to the end. I must tell you, this isn't about breaking hands. If you have ever worked in a government coalition when you were around, in such a way that you broke anyone's hand, in this government coalition we had many discussions on this subject, different opinions were given, and eventually Members were left to vote for this law and then to vote for it or not. I am sure that the majority will vote for this and I will vote for it myself. And this amendment, to say the least, I don't mean to support it. Because if we had, then in the concept of this law we had not done what would actually give the government an option, there was some way to negotiate with everyone else. But if the government does not have it, then the success of the whole reform in this area, if I may say so, is very questionable. I believe that if we take such a step, then we will also have these great dabata that have been in the past and these great derogations that we can read about in the media, especially with regard to directors of public institutions, that this will be resolved once and for all and that all these deviations will be removed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr Šteba, a fellow Member of Parliament, took the floor and I will not give him the floor because there is no time to speak to the SDS member. Only two others have been reported: colleague Pavel Gantar and fellow Member Milan Cvikl. Comrade Gantar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you very much. In fact, it's kind of a replica because it refers to the former government. I used to be a member of a former government, a larger government, so I understood it as some kind of interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u111	Comrade Paula Gantar, please allow me to give you the replica because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u112	No, I'm talking. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u113	And I won't give it to you either, so you have [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u114	Just don't take my time. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u115	a simple debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u116	'cause I'm running. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u117	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u118	I'd say this, in particular. First time. What could be a possible solution? A possible solution would, of course, be that the Minister goes into negotiations with the public sector, negotiates all open dilemmas and solutions, negotiates the amount of the allowance at work and commits Members to share the fate of everyone in this sector as they will be negotiated. That would be one of the possible solutions. I'll sign it myself right away. And this could be the commitment of all of us Members and Members. No problem, no problem. The problem, Mr Minister, of course, is not in this appendix, the problem is that some of us will have a few thousand or 10,000 smaller wages because we have not been allowed to choose to have large salaries. The problem is that you are actually deceiving and wrongly engaged in negotiations and that you will therefore produce instead of a single pay system of chaos and problems. And secondly, the previous government, indeed, and now I understand, the current government has been elected to make everything different so that it would be better not to. And so it was as soon as the government came along, for the first three months we said, we heard how things would be different, how things would get better, how the bad practices of the previous governments would break. Many times, the former government has, of course, made a wrong move. What do we hear today? Today, the government is saying in all important matters that they are doing the same as the previous government or that it is driving even further, if I may say so, from the previous government. Let it be Iraq, let it be wages, let it be the euro or whatever you want. This government is increasingly similar to the former, former, LDS-led government, and you are becoming more and more like us, like we used to be. But that's bad, because today we're different and better and the problem is simply that once you get on your feet and tell me we're doing it, we're doing it because that's what we think is right, because that's what we want, because that's why the voters authorized us, because that's how we understand the will of the electorate and leave the former government alone. Those of us from the previous government have landed here, we have a great time, and I must say, every day I say, it is well known that I am an opposition Member, it is good that I am not in the previous government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u119	Thank you for your confession. However, Member Cvikl has also been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u120	Very briefly. I will, of course, support the amendment for what Mr Petan said. Mr Petan said that the supplement to the past work should be abolished. He said it should be abolished because only then will they be older than the average, it is said to be up to 40 years old, if we say then some of the 20 years of working age, we will only be competitive in the market. I don't have a problem with that, Mr. Secretary. If the ruling coalition wants to abolish the supplement to the last job, cancel it. But end it in the labor law, stop it in conversation with the unions, not through some story the salaries of the officials cancel the supplement to the last job. And, of course, Mr. Sok. I say that they are breaking your hands because I hear a number of members of the ruling coalition who oppose it in discussions, and I hope that this is not prohibited in the ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u121	Thank you. Minister Virant also took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u122	I'm sorry, but I have to say again, Comrade Dr. Gantar, that we obviously didn't get along well. The comparison between the previous and current government in the field of public sector wages is very simple. The previous government has started well - I hope that you have heard me, I say, well established, with the 2002 law the right principles were laid down - unity, transparency, elimination of imbalances. But the problem is that the previous government did not do so; that is a fact. It has not regulated the functional salaries, has not regulated the directors' salaries and has negotiated for two and a half years with the public sector unions. These are the facts, this is a picture of the previous term. Now, on that good sequel, which is called the 2002 Wage System Act, I would say that we are upgrading this excellent extension. And we've arranged the directors' salaries, now we're regulating the salaries of the officials. And here we are, in front of you, I present you with a proposal to regulate the salaries of officials, which is, in fact, my duty under the law on the public sector wage system. And when I am here before you and I present this proposal to you, I must also propose the arrangements for the work-life allowance, temporarily, until the conclusion of a collective contract for the public sector, not to be followed. And when I propose a work-time allowance, of course I could make a decision about 0.5. But with what face I would then sit at the negotiating table and tell the unions, look, we offered you 0.3 - as the previous government has already offered you, with you as a member of this government, with Mr. Squill as a member of this government, and also with someone sitting in this national assembly - but we will set ourselves 0.5, and we stand behind the proposal of the previous government and we suggest 0.3. What kind of face could we do that with? Social dialogue took place under the previous government between the public sector unions and the government for two and a half years, and the collective agreement was not concluded. We have a good year for ourselves, it is still not concluded and we are not satisfied with it. This is the failure of both sides, both union and government. And this year, of course, we want this success very much in order to conclude a collective agreement. This will be a success for both the union side and the government side, and this is also a serious priority this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u123	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Paul Gantar to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u124	Very short. Free advice, Mr Minister: go to the unions and tell them the Members will accept that allowance at work, for which you will agree in the public sector - 0.5, 0.3, 0.2 or 0.0. Very simple, free advice. And the second time, of course, the previous government started well, I'm afraid this government is going to end badly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u125	Thank you. I also invite Member Aloys Sok to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u126	I would just like to say briefly to my fellow Member, Mr Gantar, that I rarely refer to the previous government alone, but today, of course, this debate cannot be done because the law was adopted in 2002 and Mr Bohinc has simply set this area as a priority. I don't mean to say that he wasn't trying hard enough because he was trying, but it just wasn't possible. And today, if this opportunity is offered newly, then it must be grabbed with both hands, if I may put it that way, and tried what you started to do definitively. And I think that here the opposition should help the current government and the ruling coalition, but not in this way that you are actually trying to obstruct the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you. And once again, I invite Minister Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u128	One sentence, Mr. Gantar, the previous government has ended badly. But this government has started well and will end well.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you. Comrade Paula Gantar, you have a replica. And you will be followed by Mr Squeakl, a fellow Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u130	Dear Mr. Virant, you misunderstand me this time. Just the opposite.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u131	Good. We continue the debate. Parliamentary colleague Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u132	Mr. Sok confused the concept a little bit. He proposes that we support something the government has proposed without talking to the social partners, if you have listened well, agree with the social partners and we will support it. But not to use and abuse the National Council for Pressure on Social Partners.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you. We have thus concluded or exhausted a list of the applicants, all those Members and Members who wanted to debate within the available time. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the practice so far, the rules of procedure of the National Assembly and the timing of the meeting today, within the framework of the voting point, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.05 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. It's on a defensive proposal for a decision on the salaries of the functionaries. In doing so, I would like to inform you that a total discussion period of 4 hours and 5 minutes is foreseen. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the proposal. The representative of the government is Minister Virant. Given that there is no interest or desire to be presented by the proposer, the Minister of Public Administration, we will proceed in a well-established manner. I therefore give the floor to my mother's working body, which has also dealt with the decree. This is the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, as the working body of the mother. But allow me to ask, colleague Pavel Gantar, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u134	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u135	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u136	Mr. Vice President. I think the government would like to explain this decision. The minister was busy sitting in the hall all morning, drinking water, and I suppose he could have gone to that room, say, to the bathroom, and still waited for him to come back. He's coming.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u137	Thank you for your procedural proposal. Minister, you probably want to present your position. Mrs. Kucler, I apologize for calling her earlier, but she'll wait. Please, Minister Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I will be brief because, at the previous item in the agenda, we have found that the law and the decree are so closely linked that it is actually difficult to treat them separately from each other. I would point out once again that the essence of this decision is that it is based on the Public Sector Wages Act 2002 which provided for a uniform and transparent system for the public sector, in which we are all paid from public funds, both public sector officials and directors and about 150 000 public servants. So far, the regulation of functional salaries has been flawed by the fact that the functional salaries were regulated in a number of sectoral laws, creating an uneven and opaque system and it was therefore commendable that the law in 2002 provided for this system to be unified. And now you have before you a proposal for this unification, i.e. a motion for a decree that classified individual functions or holders of public functions into wage classes. They are classified according to the criteria of the method of election, the weight of responsibility and the importance of a function, some institution in the political system. Of course, as I have already said on the working body, I would say the responsibilities, the heavy responsibility and the importance of individual functions in the political system cannot be measured with fine instruments, which means that it is not possible to create a system with which everyone would be satisfied, which everyone would welcome as absolutely just, there is no absolutely fair system here. However, we claim that this decree eliminates a number of imbalances and that the new wage ratios will be better than they were before. So much for the introduction.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u139	Minister Virant, thank you for your brief presentation. As has been said earlier, the motion for a decree has been considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent working body, so I invite the committee president, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the report or the position of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee also discussed the proposal for a regulation on the salaries of officials at the first meeting below. The representative of the proposaler, Minister Gregor Virant, has, as has already been said, combined his supplementary explanation both to the proposal for a decree and to the amendment of the law on the system of public sector wages, as it regulates this similar content and, above all, to the additional explanation for the decision, stressed which criteria were taken into account in the classification of the functions in the decree. He therefore stressed that the criteria which were relevant in the classification of functions were taken into account, such as the importance of the function in the political system, the responsibility criterion and the criterion of the manner in which the individual function was selected or the choice for a particular function. With regard to the highest 65th wage class, the drafter of the decree is limited by the law on the public sector wage system, which was adopted in 2002 with a high level of support. It was also supported at that time that all officials were regulated in a single decree. The representative of the legislative and legal service first pointed out the question of the admissibility of the title of the decision, since he felt that the text referred only to the classification of individual functions in the pay grade and that the representative of the proposer replied that the change of the title was not necessary, since the content of the law did not go beyond its title and that the committee did not take these comments into account the ZPS. The legislative and legal service also drew attention to some of the contentious provisions concerning the amendment to Articles 6 and 7 of the Decree, with a representative of the proposer already preparing the relevant amendments and adopting them as his own. A representative of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia also participated in the meeting, which in principle agreed with the decree, but presented his opinion mainly to the part in which he proposed to supplement the draft decree with the function of Secretary of the State Council. The meeting also presented their views on the proposed decision by the representatives of the invited institutions, namely, the representatives of the judicial branch of the authority which did not support the decree, which somehow disagree with the salaries of the initial judges in the district courts, that it is too low for the two payment classes. Some of their concerns were also expressed by the Ombudsman, the President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia and the President of the State Audit Commission, while the representative of the Attorney General agreed to the placement of state prosecutors and stressed that for the first time in years, we have reached a European standard, when the Attorney General is equal with the judge of the same rank. With regard to those views, the representative also answered and explained the questions raised below. The members and members of the committee supported the bill. In the debate, however, different positions were expressed, the members and members of the committee who supported the proposed decision considered that the proposal for a decision after many years of unsuccessful attempts to finally regulate the pay system in a uniform manner would also regulate it and will continue to regulate it in the future, in particular that the proposed payment system is more transparent than the current one and eliminates the long-term imbalance of some salaries. However, the members and members of the committee who opposed the motion for a decision stated that the functions in the decree were arbitrary, that certain wage relations were inadequate. The representative of the proposer replied that the relationship between the branches of government remained unchanged and that the proposed decision eliminates the current apparent imbalance between the various functions in terms of their role and importance. The amendments to Article 8 which were adopted by Mr Anton Kokalj and the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, as well as some amendment committees were adopted. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u141	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u142	Whereas the Committee, in the end, also supported all the articles of the draft decree together. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thanks for the introduction. We are passing through or on the proposal for a decree have also been identified by the parliamentary groups, they will present their views. First of all, I would like to invite a representative of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Ambassador Jacob the Presbyterian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with a co-worker! The proposal for a regulation on salaries of officials regulates the same content as the proposal for amendments to the law on the public sector wage system. Both documents are linked as they complement and follow the objective of implementing the Public Sector Wage System Act as soon as possible or of regulating the public sector's pay system. This decree, together with the already adopted Regulation on the salaries of directors in the public sector, is also important as a framework on which all other salaries will be determined, as it sets the highest wages. Opinions on whether the relationship between individual officials within individual branches of government and in local communities is appropriate are not uniform. Some Members, as well as representatives of the public concerned, have warned that these relations are not good, that they are not logical and similar. Here we must stress that there is a possibility that any relationship is not absolutely the best, that an individual official is not classified in the most appropriate wage class. Of course that's possible. On the other hand, it is also clear that today, in this National Assembly, it is a very real possibility for us to systematically regulate the wage system of public sector officials for the first time, which we believe is also a good framework for the finalisation of the whole public sector wage system. In any event, the practice of implementing this Decision will demonstrate its possible shortcomings. And there is absolutely no obstacle to making the necessary corrections to the decree for some time now. The Members of the Slovenian People's Party therefore support the proposal for a decree and we are convinced that it brings good and comparable solutions. In doing so, I must stress in particular that this document also regulates the salaries of mayors, where disproportionateity was the greatest and most obvious, partly immediately, and the rest gradually over the coming years, as well as the decree and the law provide. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the decision on the salaries of officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you for your position. Bogdan Barovic will present his position on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Many evaluations and opinions of the Slovenian National Party on the decision on the salaries of officials have already been made at the previous point. Allow me a few key messages. In explanation of the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the decision, the decision to make, to create transparency, with the Slovenian word for transparency, was stated. In doing so, I would only add that this decree is followed by three laws as a result of this decree: the law on the prosecution, the law on the defence attorney and the judges, which, if you have just looked at it in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party and probably also in the opinion of someone else, creates an excellent stage fog. Just look at the "additions" that are regulated by the law and they are added there. Hereinafter, European comparability. Today we have heard and read that the aim of the actions we are talking about, the changes in law and decree, is to compare them with Europe. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as far as you have read the presentation of regulations in other legal systems as Members, you have been able to read the opposite of what has been said. There is no common European model of pay system, evidence, says on page 4, in explanation of the decree, of course, respected colleagues, you have today stressed a number of times Europe. This part discusses savings, on page 6, the explanatory statement states that all estimates suggest that a savings of almost 700 million will be achieved on the basis of the elimination of imbalances in the salaries of public officials at the state level, according to the report. I ask you on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, but what if it does, these 4 billion to 55 billion is just a membership paid by this country to Nate. Or against the 800 million who blew up in the three days of the OSCE Presidency in Ljubljana, I have nothing against the OSCE, but the 800 million was that nothing happened unfortunately. I stress, 55 billion dollars in membership, but we're talking about 4 billion saved money. Last but not least, respectable colleagues and colleagues. I agree, it has been said that it was necessary to start to regulate these things at the summit, I agree, according to November 2005 data, because I admit, as my respected colleague said a little earlier, everyone has the right to fight for the fair payment of his work done fairly. Unfortunately, we are not at the summit, according to the November 2005 figures, we are in 177 places in public sector salaries, I repeat, in 177th place is the first richest, dearest, most paid Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. If 177's the top, all right. Last but not least, colleagues and colleagues. You know, if we don't respect ourselves, if we have an honest relationship with this work, then no one will ever respect us again. We will not support this decision in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thanks for the attitude. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Ambassador Znidaršič. In the meantime, allow me only to inform you that between 13:00 and 14:00, I will interrupt the meeting due to the activity of the working bodies. Here you go, Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u148	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, with his co-worker, colleague and colleague. The DeSUS Group will not collapse for the following reasons. The coalition decree is not harmonised and, as such, should not be the subject of today's treatment, read, the last sentence of the coalition contract. While the decree has seen some adjustments for the better with our assistance, particularly in the field of the judiciary, for which we are interested, to work as best as possible and in particular to cope with the backlogs that we have accumulated but in our view the other allocations are not appropriate. Of course, the decree truly reflects and really reflects this instant reduction in salaries only to officials. However, with a view to the same consequences, of course, for everyone in the public sector. He did not prove that a reduction in the salaries of officials would stimulate a better job, but we think the opposite will happen first. In any case, there are serious differences. In terms of lowering the functional salary when it comes to younger and older officials, it is to the detriment of the elderly, who, by the nature of our party's programme, are obliged to defend. It is, of course, not only for the consequence of a small, lower pension and, of course, less contributions to the pension allowance, but also for a minor reduction in the inflow to the health treasury, where there are fixed costs which will not be reduced as a result and will of course be more difficult to cover. Of course, the reasons why we should reduce officials first, then to everyone else in the public sector, by the government, is, in order to save what we understand by doing, not only in this way, for example, by making better use of the working time of employees in public administration, including officials, with fewer delegations on trips, even when it comes to delegations by the government, not only by Parliament, where they are terribly limited, by limiting some of the costs of hiring expensive apartments, by travelling by a minister, with deliberate employment, by reducing the number and costs of certain fee contracts for various jobs, advice and other, otherwise necessary transactions, which we have read in the media, that only one ministry spent 60 million in one year and so on not to mention. Finally, of course, there is no justification for the re-examination of employees in wage classes, given the comments made by the Ombudsman, the Court of Auditors, the Council of Justice not to list all. Indeed, these are not institutions whose views and opinions could be unrelentingly thrown into the basket, ignored, revised our proposals and actions and, of course, then moved on as if they had not been. Last but not least, our parliamentary group, except for coercion, does not know any argument to change its position on this classification of all officials in the pay grade, by more than 10 members of the coalition, by deducting DeSUS Members who did not agree to the process of coordination with this decree, but today only by not saying so, they are enthusiastically in favour. That's just a foreign reason why we don't support it, because we think that every day and every night we can't change our views. As a whole, we think that, and this is not irrelevant, a further reduction in salaries for officials who, while not having a well-known background in the public, would lead to, in the final sequence, at least in situations where education is not prescribed, for example, in Parliament, that there are increasingly poor structures in education, skills, knowledge and work, which cannot produce some noble fruits in the future, which has been scientifically proven and there is no demagogic comment. For these reasons, we cannot support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you for your introduction. Before we proceed with the presentations on the positions of the parliamentary groups, only my fellow Sušnik ask: Will your presentation last more than 5 minutes? Then please. So fellow Member Franz Sušnik will give his position to the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister! The proposal for a regulation on the salaries of officials ahead of us is one of the ways to achieve a key objective in the creation of a new salary system, namely the establishment of a common pay system for officials and public servants. It is an important segment, which is urgently regulated and, in accordance with the aforementioned law of 2002, has already been passed several times. The imprecise regulation of the highest wages in the public sector, and certainly the salaries of directors, therefore causes the inadvisability of salaries in the public sector, especially in the fact that certain groups of public servants are modelled on the salaries of certain groups of officials and that is why we support that decision in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group because we want to be an example and offer a model for how to regulate salaries in the public sector. Among the objectives and main solutions, allow me to emphasise the main and leading objective that the proposed decree aims to achieve, namely that all functions are classified as wage classes in accordance with the annexes, and that in this way the basic salaries of officials will be shown in the same way as the basic salaries of public servants, and thus, particularly, that the salaries of officials become and remain directly comparable. Notwithstanding the way in which the nominal amounts of basic salaries are translated, the basic salaries for individual functions are determined by a decree higher or lower than the translated basic salaries, and I would like to state the three basic criteria that we support and follow in supporting this decision. This is, in particular, the method of election or appointment, which is intended to be taken into account as one of the criteria for the classification of an individual function, secondly, the importance of an individual institution in a political system and the responsibility of functioning in the performance of a particular function. When adopting this decision, I would also like to mention that this corrects the gross underestimation in the salaries of mayors as a result of the decision of the 2002 National Assembly. [[?]] , when the salaries of mayors of small municipalities simply halved. In this regard, I would like to say that the following must be recognised as financial consequences. In particular, it is important to say in the case of civil servants that the level of remuneration is reduced by 4.6% by the application of this Decision and 7.5% by local officials. This will eliminate these imbalances. Once again, our support for this decree goes in the direction of wage regulation in the public sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u151	Thank you, Comrade Sušnik, for presenting your position. In accordance with the foregoing, I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the National Assembly by 2 p.m. At 2 p.m., when we continue the meeting and the agenda item, he will be the first to present the position of the Liberal Democracy Club. Until then, good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u152	Dear Members and Members! We will continue with the adjourned meeting of the National Assembly and with this interrupted point, the proposal for a decision on the salaries of officials. I ask all those Members and Members who are in their offices or in the lobby to join us. We have cut off the point in the context of the presentation of the positions of individual parliamentary groups. I invite the representative of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, Dr. Paul Gantar, to present the position. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u153	Mr Vice-President, honourable Minister with a fellow member, the honourable Chamber of Members and Members or Members of Parliament alone! Maybe it's not interesting, because we're just continuing the story from the previous item on the agenda. According to the LDS Club, the decision on the salaries of officials is merely a manoeuvre by which the government seeks to pretend unions in some way and to choose a favourable negotiating basis for public sector wage negotiations. This manoeuvre has already been overlooked on the Internal Policy Committee and it would probably be better for these negotiations not to be addressed at all. At the same time, this decree, according to the proposer and also in general, means some kind of action that has already been pointed out. Globally, reducing the supplement to the working age from 0.5 to 0.3 - what significant numbers! - also reduce salaries for officials and thus save money for taxpayers. If you ask citizens and citizens whether they agree to lower the salaries of officials, especially beloved political officials, they will surely answer yes. Especially professional politicians as beloved officials are not, we must admit, a particularly respectable profession in society and many may say that every salary is too great for us. Members and Members of the LDS Club did not go to the elections to secure high wages, so we do not intend to discuss these aspects specifically or even fight for 0.5% of the supplement at work. As I have already mentioned, we are prepared, like others, to share the fate of all public officials, officials, employees, directors and so on. Whatever you agree to, it'll be good for us. Nevertheless, in view of what we are discussing today, I would like to point out that there are some circumstances which, however, speak for the fact that beloved officials have solid salaries. Of course, this solidarity is defined by the criterion of what is social justice and what is not, but let us remain in the word of solid wages. Why? I have once mentioned the reasons in a contribution, and I will only repeat them briefly. The first thing is that we have to admit that professional politics is still a risky business - today you are, tomorrow you are no longer elected. An individual or an individual who pursues a professional post or a beloved place in general must give up his previous job, a job, a profession for at least four years. After four years he can be on the road, the level of the job takes second place and so on. He's glad he can find a job, and a lot of people haven't been able to find it. The lower incomes of Members and the expected job insecurity after the mandate affect people's decisions as to whether they should run at all. In the current situation, young professionals who have embarked on a serious career are in fact not worth running for, and it is simply worth continuing their professional careers more. This may be good for the profession, perhaps good for society, but it is not so good for the structure of Members. The second reason for solid wages, not too high, not the extreme salary of beloved politicians, is, of course, linked to the nature of the public function. We must not engage in profitable activities; our relatives' companies must not operate with the state and municipalities and public companies; we must be as impartial as possible; we must not condition our decisions by obtaining material or any benefit for ourselves, for the family, for the client or for the like. All of these are essential and reasonable limits that we must respect if we are to have a society regulated and that works well. Lower wages for politicians, let's face it, and loved officials will not rise, and I agree with that, and they have not lowered the reputation of politics in society, so there are other reasons for a higher or lower reputation, but they can start something else. They can only begin to respect their own beloved officials and thus pave the way for greater partiality, not even corruption. Many in politics would be able to, I'm not saying that, I'm not saying that there is anyone in this room, but we are speaking objectively, not just as Members. Many in politics may think that now that they are in politics, they can take care of themselves because they have the ability to influence and decide or even when they are in power. That's not good. That's very bad. Of course, the promise of law-makers is also to lower the salaries of officials, this prospect being sand in the eyes of the public. Some will actually get lower wages, some, especially those in repressive appliances, if I may say so, the judiciary, the prosecution, will get bigger and we don't even know how much they're going to increase because not all the supplements they're going to receive are yet to be known. Thus, what will be saved from politicians and independent supervisory authorities, such as the Court of Auditors, the Information Officer, the Ombudsman and the President of the Republic, and so on, all that will be stored here will be used for judges, for prosecutors, which is of paramount importance. Alone, we in the parliamentary group have no objection to saying that state prosecutors must also have comparable salaries with judges, but we do not accept the argument that prosecutors are part of the judiciary, they are part of the judicial system, certainly, but not part of the judicial branch of power, unless the judiciary knows the authorities and the relations between prosecutors and judges, you understand, as the old ones say, that the Serbian word 'kadija sudja, kadija sudja', the prosecutor and the judge are not in the same so-called judicial branches of government. In particular, because of what we see once again a shift, that repressive authorities, prosecutors, judges are rewarded in particular, and that wages are reduced in so-called independent bodies, which the government does not like very much. We absolutely don't accept that. We do not accept, as we have already said, the very logic of regulating the pay system on the basis of a law that is good, in our view, the procedures are bad, which they drive. That is why we will not take part in such maneuvers, we will not support the decree, and we will oppose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u154	Thank you for your position. I would like to take the floor by inviting Mr Dusan Kumra, a fellow Member, to present the position of the SD Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A respected minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! During last year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sent to Parliament a motion for a decree on the classification of posts in wage classes to partially enforce the law on the public sector wage system. Given that this is an act, which also means the implementation of constitutionally defined relations between the institutions of individual functions, especially between the institutions of functions in the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government, I will try to justify the opinion of the Socialist Group of Members in a somewhat broader context of these relations. In fact, the decision itself is made directly and in a pragmatic manner and is essentially justified more than simply to regulate wages. It also substantiates the relationship between the government and this national assembly or parliament. Both the law and the decree are a new stone in the mosaic of persistent destruction of the principle of the division of power, the author of which is always a government. I started to call it some kind of constitutional erosion. This principle, namely the principle of the division of power, still provides for and provides for Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. For some time, however, the conditions of unity and concentration of decision-making in the government have been created in Slovenia, i.e. in the executive branch of the government, and Parliament plays only the role of legalising such decision-making. If, on the one hand, this project is carried out in accordance with the principle of any compatibility, especially political government, remember public servants, or according to the rule of sanctioning non-compliance, such as Kosovo Commission, RTV, scientific and research institutions, universities and, last but not least, the Economic Chamber of Slovenia, there is certainly another way of this same project in relation to the Government to the legislative and judicial branches of government. In particular, the Court wishes to restrict the powers of the Judicial Council and to intervene retroactively in individual proceedings and to amend the rules of the game during the course of the proceedings themselves. For the Group of Social Democrats, the most important relationship between the executive branch and the legislature is the government towards this National Assembly. Let me just remind you of the Government's attempt to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by means of a law that should allow employees in individual ministries who, due to the Government's rules of procedure, cannot stand alone at the government's own meeting, but could do so in this national assembly instead of ministers and secretaries. It is sufficient for Members to have a State official explain the matter and in this way legitimately represent the government in this National Assembly, there was a fundamental and basic argument. Of course, the story goes on. Thus, in the proposal for a new law on access to information of a public nature, the government has written it down peacefully, citing: "In addition, the proposaler proposes that the joint annual report should no longer be submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration, as it imposes an additional burden on it because it does not bring any positive effects. It is enough for the government to accept it and publish it on the world web", the end of the quote. I believe that this paragraph tells us everything about the relationship and relations of the executive power to the legislative one, is said by this national assembly and, of course, by us Members and Members. And the result of such a relationship is also this proposal for a decree regulating the salaries of public officials. If we come from a government assessment, which she herself wrote to the proposal for this decree, I quote: "...the consequences of regulating the salaries of public function holders in different regulations are also disproportionates or anomalies. Payment relationships in new cases do not reflect the importance and responsibilities of individual public functions", the end of the quote. Then I must say that this decree represents a new, even greater anomaly. Even in this decree, the defined wage ratios in many cases do not reflect the importance and responsibilities of the individual public function. Among other things, there is a status relationship between the three branches of government: legislative, executive and judicial. On the other hand, the decree classified into individual payment classes also reflects the importance and responsibility of each public function. Apparently, as the minister or government sees it. For illustration - through these glasses, the function of all state secretaries of the government, led by the Secretary of Government, is more important and more responsible than more than 80 Members and Members of the National Assembly. The Secretary of the State Assembly is also responsible for the importance and responsibility of more than 80 Members and Members of this Assembly. Here, of course, I must add that these are functions that are politically compatible and are, of course, from a human resources perspective, within the power of the Government and the current majority authority. In other words, the whole government team, all ministers, one, two, three, all state secretaries, one, two, three, together with the secretary of the government, are by weight and responsibility to more than 80 Members and Members. And that's kind of an anomaly for me. It would not be if a minister or government came forward with a proposal that a minister or a minister for whom the Prime Minister, at the end of the year, had given an assessment that the Ministry would run it, but not a ministry to find himself in what kind of payment class, such as a Member of Parliament 4, 5 to be in this class of payment 55, 56, but not that all of these are, as a rule, entirely at the top of this scale of payment classes. Finally, all 90 Members and Members of Parliament were elected in direct elections, while all those I speak of were appointed in this national assembly by the majority of Members and Members. Whatever the case, it is an underestimating attitude of executive power towards this House, its importance, its work and its responsibility. It is therefore incomprehensible for me to act, and the attitude of Members and Members of the coalition, so that they do not put themselves on this government's absolutism, and to say, let us not put ourselves on the sidelines. This isn't just about pay. It's a lot more than that. It is whether or not we need Members and Members to simply attach to government proposals, which are, after most decisions already, more or less final, and only need more than half the votes for this national assembly, or are we able to say no when it comes to these issues of government's attitude towards parliament, which is not in favour of this house. A little more self-respect is likely within us. We will not adopt a decision in the Group of Social Democrats on these and other reasons for this motion.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the position of the Nova Slovenija Group, Member Alojz Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, co-worker, ministry, distinguished fellow Members and Members of Parliament! I will present the views of New Slovenia briefly. In fact, it is likely that any one of us sitting here today, and also those who listen to us, would arrange for his or her function or importance, and sometimes take into account personal reasons. I believe that many in this country, after what the President of the Republic has done, we hear yesterday and today, would probably immediately lower his salary for some class, but that's how it is. There's a decree ahead of us that's been in coalition coordination for a long time. Finally, we have somehow agreed to propose what is before you, and I hope that this will also be adopted today. In the New Slovenia Group, we have decided to support such a decree. While it is true that some of the concerns were whether it was really necessary to include 6 classes of Members in such a decree, or whether we were not all equally elected. But the truth is loving, and the Members are also burdened differently by their duties. And we know such a system in fact already in this House, and we have known it before. One of the things that has particularly satisfied us in the New Slovenia Group is that we are somehow correcting the salaries of the mayors, because these have actually been in many congregations so far, we could call this shamefully low and thus the work of the mayors has been completely degraded. This was known, of course, by the Members of the previous reference, but they never had the will and the idea of changing this discrimination and correcting it. This time they are corrected in this decree. As far as the decree is concerned, the New Slovenia Group will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u158	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate on the motion for a decree, and then we will discuss the amendment tabled by Article 7. In doing so, I remind you that the two content sets are scheduled for the same time as the parliamentary groups have notified them. So much for the notice. As we say, we are moving to a general part of the debate on the proposal for a decree. The first one has the word of a fellow Member, Miran Potč. [[He's not here.]] There's a colleague of mine, Aloise Sok. [[He's not here.]] I give the floor to my fellow Member, Stanislav Brenčič. [[He's not here.]] I would ask the leaders of the groups of Members to inform me of the absence of their Members who had previously announced that they would discuss. I don't think I'm asking too much, and I believe that this would be right, especially because of the ease of conducting the meeting. I give my word to my fellow Member, Zagorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! As my colleague, Mr Barovic, said in his presentation on the position of the Slovenian National Party, I will not support the decision myself. The reason for that is quite something. Above all, I have been stabbed in the eyes of the big words of both the minister and the government members that this decree, in relation to the law, brings transparency in the field of public sector wages. With regard to this transparency, it must be said that this decree and this law are followed by three other laws, which we will deal with a little later in this meeting. This is the law on the state's prosecution, the law on the state's attorney and the law on judges. In these laws we can find a number of supplements that are in one way or another disguised in this law. That is why I think that transparency will only be in the part of the public sector's wages where the government wants it, but not where it wants to hide it. So I think talking about the transparency of such a decision is a complete bluff. With regard to the implementation by government Members of the fact that we are going to European comparable salaries in the public sector, I must say that I was very surprised to see that the decree says that the decree is not comparable in Europe because Europe does not know such a common solution to public sector wages. So I don't know where you get the idea of this European comparability. The three-quarters explanation in the decree is intended for words on the country's large savings in this particular area of public sector wages. As my colleague has already said about the pay phone when he was representing the position, it would be more prudent to save where we spend a lot. These are various memberships, the Ousse meeting in Ljubljana, and not least when he mentioned it, even when I was explaining the position of the parliamentary group on the law on salaries in the public sector, I said that, above all, state companies and their directors are those where it might really be possible to "supply". Let me tell you, for comparison, November's personal income, which is exactly what the director of one such public company, for which, if I tell you the name of this company, probably no one in this national council has even heard. All these are the reasons why I cannot support such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! I know I'm going down on a very slippery floor when I'm discussing a decision on the salaries of officials and it's probably wiser to keep quiet and remain a philosopher. However, there are some things that need to be said about this decision. If the salaries of officials are to become more transparent, i.e. transparent, if the salary system for officials is to be more equitable, then there should be sufficient clear identification criteria to achieve these two basic objectives. However, the debate held on the Internal Policy Committee shows that there is almost no area covered by this decree which could certainly claim that at least these two criteria are in line with the proposed decree. In fact, I have the most comments on the relationship between the different branches of government. If one of the criteria according to which officials are to be classified in the decree, including the method of appointment or election, for me, those functions related to direct elections are certainly those that may be classified higher than those where the appointment is concerned. The moment, the risk, the possibility of repetition and the time limits is the one who does his job. Here, of course, the ranking of Members in the proposed 6th grade is already something to discuss, as the system of elections for all Members, at least 88 of them, is the same. I understand that functional supplements play an important role in the current system, but we are talking about classifying them into classes where they are classified by basic salary. And if I ignore or dismiss this part, this disturbing part of the decree, then I have to point out at least one more matter that I feel is not well resolved in the proposed decree. It is a question of placing in the pay grade of all those officials who act within the framework of the independent authorities, so to speak, but it disturbs this, let's say that not even the inclusion on the agenda of the petitions commission and of human rights and equal opportunities was possible when the Ombudsman's Office had comments on this decision. It is, therefore, that some independent institutions, which are being paid for by this decree, actually push their heads into the sand and do not want to hear arguments that these representatives do not have the opportunity to derive income from any other services, additional obligations, functions or anything else, so that the reduction of wages there is about 200 000, but I am speaking grossly, because the amount is approximate, is not accurate, I think it would be more correct to say about 190,000 gross, but the thing that should be considered. The range between the first of the same as could be heard from the President of the Supreme Court, to think that the range for several wage classes is unacceptable for those who want to ensure quality and accountability in the future. This is just a few small reasons why I think the ruling is bad, in addition to everything else that could be understood and linked to the previous text of marriage, which we have discussed and which makes my judgment in such a way that I do not support the proposed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador William Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u163	Thank you. Speaking of this decision, it must be said that Members of the DeSUS Group do not know at this time exactly how we will vote because there are two conditions here. For the first time, it must be said that we will support the amendment that is now proposed for this decision, which, after all, has also emerged from our initiative. We wanted more changes in this branch, in justice, but that was what we could reconcile, but it was no longer the case. The second part, which is how we will vote in relation to the decree, depends, of course, on the adoption or non-admission of the amendment to the previous law, because this is crucial, and this moment is difficult to predict. If the amendment to the previous law is adopted, then we will also support this decree. On the contrary, we will be very sorry if we cannot support this because the decree has a whole range of good solutions that we would otherwise support. What bothers us most about all of this, as do some others. The procedure we've come to what we have now on the table. Let me remind you that on pages 21 and 22 of the Coalition Treaty, it says that we will accept in the National Assembly those who are in the coalition only what is previously coordinated and which will also be coordinated with the social partners. I'm afraid that's not the case right now. Secondly, we are somewhat disturbed by the fact that this reduction from 0.5 to 0.3 to add to the past work is only the first part of the forecast from the reform framework. There's talk of checking whether this supplement would be eliminated at all, but here we're talking about de facto one part we're just reducing, at least by number, that we're not going to argue about the final effects. What bothers us about these two documents is as follows. In reform, in the framework of reforms, we have said that we will explore whether this can be done. And we also agreed to study these options. It is written that we will do so in a way that, at the same time or perhaps even first, we will arrange a permanent allowance. Now we've skipped that again. We've skipped one phase of negotiations and that's what's bothering us in this process. Therefore, once again, we believe and call for it to be taken into account that all that has been promised in terms of negotiations and consensus has not been achieved so far and that we cannot simply forget and forget this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u164	Thank you. The next on the list of registered participants is Ambassador Franz Kangler. I give my word to Ambassador Bojan Kontic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In dealing with this decision on the salaries of officials, I can’t help feeling that the decree is written according to who is performing a particular function at the moment. For a quick look at this table can show that, for example, Mr Hanžek, Minister and Government, Mr Kos, who are going down the ladder and Mrs Barbara Brezigar, on the other hand, is the Attorney General, who is going up the ladder. This, of course, convinces me that, in addition to how to classify individual officials, you have seen, above all, who is the official you are classifying, the ratio of Members: State secretaries: Ministers. The comments already made on the committee, everything in the parent’s working body, are certainly true. Most Members are classified in payment classes under the entire executive branch, which is certainly not logical. Let me also point out that it is not logical to compare the President of the Commission, for example, to prevent corruption, to sort of classify him as the mayor of the third and fourth classes. This is among the mayors of municipalities from 30 to 100,000, less than these mayors and more than the mayors of between 15,000 and 30,000. This is certainly not acceptable and it is not logical. Although I also know the jobs that are taking place in such municipalities, and I agree that the mayors have so far had a bit too low wages, but again you have been very generous with the mayors of small municipalities. The wages were really lousy there, and I can agree with that, and it's only right that they get their salaries fixed. But all the other mayors haven't been given that much support in preparing this decree. As I said, there is a lot of illogicality in this decree, and this decision cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u166	Thank you. The next on the list to be discussed is Member Roberto Battelli. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. It is interesting how our Parliament does not actually have a place to decide its own position. It's paradoxical, but it is. We also have such a privilege, Members, that we cannot resolve our own issues on our own without the logic of government regulation in society. This is not an eyewitness to the government. This was more or less in all situations, except when Parliament and democratic regulation were established and adopted a constitution. If you look at those discussions, they went in a very different direction as far as Parliament's situation went. It's not about pay. It is a status, a position of Member during and after the performance of the function. I mean, if these things were to be cleared, it would also be much easier and much more objective, impartial and probably deepened in a way that would not arouse suspicion of demagogism or even hypocrisy. Let me stress that some of us have been out of every possibility of building any professional career for 16 years, unlike all the others who can do so. Being a Member in no way compensates this moment less than this fact, in no way. So we have such a privilege in particular. It's practically impossible to tell the public. I'm being stopped on the street right now, and they say, 'cause you retire whenever you want. I would not say that a pension would be something a person would like to gain as soon as possible, for retirement is, however, the enjoyment of certain rights that were accumulated after a person’s work. Members can't work normally when they're not elected. That's the problem. And that's not solved. I don't know. I don't even know how I'm gonna decide. In fact, I feel like in those American sequels, when someone's been arrested, a cop tells him everything you say from here on out will turn against you, will turn against you. What I would say is the low level of thought I've expressed, so low is the situation we're in. It would be good if we took these issues seriously once and for all, and probably only then could we create such an atmosphere that would enable us to carry out our work even in such decisions. The President of the National Assembly may also take the initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u168	Thank you. We continue the debate. The next item on the list of debates is Ambassador Majda Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u169	There is a bit of a gloomy atmosphere today and in many ways I would like to continue on the points left by my previous talker, Mr Battelli. Perhaps even by thinking that you have prepared a situation where we should be here already because we are here, and because we are getting paid, and because this salary is too high in the public eye, it has been blamed. In fact, it is very difficult and difficult to talk about this issue at a time when there is a presence in the air somewhere, that the roles of officials are - because people are allergic to the status and role of officials or public officials in general, because they should be treated as being too high for any pay. On the other hand, such thinking, which could be a common denominator of common thinking, can put aside a second thought that is expressed by any minister of present or any other government earlier in order to make such identification and understanding of public service and the lack of visibility of public services a problem when people no longer decide for these public services when ministries have any problems writing that anyone is still studying and responsibly dealing with documents, because it is simply not worth it anymore; not only because of this underestimated and unappreciable treatment that they have, but also because of, after all, of these arrangements that we are facing today. And so the ministers keep moaning that they don't have the resources to handle it. What bothers me about the solution that the government came with is, in short, at least two levels of conflict. One of these is the kind of move that, Minister, you simply cannot deny that you have regulated certain issues at a certain point. In fact, before the local elections, you have arranged for some of the issues affecting the salaries of mayors and mayors who have repeatedly shouted after the resolution. But a way like the one on the table also has its messages. However, another fundamental message in the general discredit of public services is that in some ways certain segments of the public service that perform supervisory functions in the country are penalised. Here, of course, I am referring to the services of the Ombudsman, who, as has already been said today, did not even want to speak on a commission where he could, about independent services such as the Court of Auditors and other commissions, which oversee the work of those who, after these decrees, receive a significantly higher salary than they themselves. So in a way, it seems to me that it's even going so far, for some resulting punishment, that if you can't replace someone else somewhere, you can't even change the law of his appointment, but at least his services are getting smaller. Today, we may also wonder if we can determine our reputation by paying. I'm sure you don't. However, the discussion of what is and how the reputation of public service is being discredited in my opinion is too weak, too brave and certainly too demagogic, at least that's how I understood it to this day.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u170	Don’t worry, the National Assembly will wait until the end of the conversation, Comrade Kangler, Paul and Friday. Are you done? Thank you. Then we can get back to work. I give my word to Ambassador Mitja Ljubeljska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. Honorable House, Honourable Minister, Honourable Representative of the Government! It is difficult to say something about this decision that has not yet been heard, both today and on the working body itself. It would still be possible to discuss from different perspectives on the concept itself or on the process of defining the pay system or on the criteria or on something else, but this is not the subject of this debate. Any one of us in his professional practice has already dealt with changes in the payment system, knows that this is an extremely difficult and sensitive subject that has never been perfectly solved, which practically never meets such individual functional or organizational areas or individuals in these areas. The problem is that casually or eagerly, each individual is looking for where he will be in the new payment system, what he gets and what he loses. And that seems human to me. And that's what's happening with this decree. Each branch of power is so legislative, executive and judicial that it values itself more or less, each one views his or her interests through his or her values, and for these views appear or hides the visions and desires of individuals as well. I have no reason to doubt the allocation of functions to the individual payment classes defined by this decree. I believe that the allocation is based on clear criteria, such as the method of election, the weight of the functions in the state political space and the responsibility of the individual function. And that seems important to me. It is clear to me that these criteria are not measurable and can therefore be challenged on the one hand or on the other, depending on the weight of the individual criterion in relation to each other. However, these criteria must be clear and in an honest and corrective manner also recognised. And that's what I think they are. I myself see the fundamental objective of this decree and, under this resolution, the proposed amendment to establish a fair and transparent allocation of payment grade functions on the basis of such criteria, in order to eliminate the wage imbalances both overvalued and undervalued. Such a decree with the proposed content, including the amendment, therefore we have before us and it would be a mistake, in my opinion, if Members, when we decide on the proposed law, on the amendment and the decision, if we want the public sector payment system to be systematically regulated, when deciding "for" or "against" to be viewed by everyone from their specific point of view or interest. For each of us will lose something, one less. I'm one of the ones who's gonna be the most because I'm 40 years old. I believe that Members should also be involved in this game, which applies to all the same basic criteria, both for officials and for public servants. This is probably what citizens and citizens who are taxpayers and other taxpayers expect from us. Members must decide whether we are in favour of such systemic changes, whether we are in favour of wage regulation in the public sector or not. Do we want to establish a transparent, orderly, uniform, fair system or do we want to keep the executives of public institutions and the payment gap between functions by delaying? Whether we want Members to demonstrate by their own example that wage reform in the public sector is not an empty word and a promise, but that it is an act that will, among other things, bring great annual savings in public finances or in the state budget. Because of these main and important aspects and arguments for me, I myself will vote for this law, for the law, and also for the amendment and the decree. The adoption of the law and the decree will also be a good basis and a journey forward in order to improve the wage system in the public sector by complementing and modifying it, of course if practice shows this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u172	Thank you. Member Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u173	Colleagues and colleagues! I am among the rare here in this Chamber, which I have been following for 15 years these developments around the evaluation of our status. I was in the first assembly, but this time for the third time in the National Assembly, and I am monitoring how every time the status of Members was somewhat valued at the start, we are reducing it. The individual segments of the executive branch are increasing. The situation is not only sad, as Shirtz's colleague said, but also bizarre. We are somehow in the role of the employer to whom the employer sets the wage and, of course, slowly cut him in such a way that you are the employer's superior position. I understand the public doesn't appreciate us. I understand that we're also for the government of some kind of skyscraper, because we're just doing some work that's superfluous. Because the government knows exactly what it's doing and, of course, where it's taking all of us. But that we accept this role, but it's bizarre if it's not already a defeat. And I'm afraid, as I said in the previous law, that we're going to get into the situation where we're going to be doing this amateur work in the next term. Perhaps we would return to the congregation system once a month, attaching what the government proposes and going home to our jobs. It'll be the cheapest, but I don't know how good that's gonna be. I am truly surprised by my colleagues and colleagues from the coalition ranks that you are so easy to agree to such an evaluation of the status of a Member. As I follow the situation in Italy, which is closest to me when I watch TV, I listen to the radio and read the newspapers when the minister comes with such proposals, laws and decrees, we would already carry it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you. The text is by Dr Mitja Slavinec.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u175	Thank you so much for saying that. I also consider the decree inappropriate, because it does not treat functions as such, but rather the officials who currently hold these functions. We have already heard a number of cases where payments are made on the basis of officials who occupy certain functions, raise or decrease. In most cases, of course, very, very tending. And on the salaries themselves, no matter how nominal the pay goes up or down, it doesn't matter. It's a matter of principle. The wages themselves are only cheap populism and demagogia, to which colleague Gantar warned in his opening remarks and, of course, said the same thing as we heard a minute ago that they would be the best wage for most if they were nothing. But, as it is said, it is a demonstration of the power and status, power and status of the elected government in this House, which, from directly elected Members of Parliament, works as farmers in the field of chess, blind supporters of government decisions. And that's why, of course, we need a little more than half of the entire national assembly. And where does that lead? As it is said, it is not just about wages, but it does not pay Members at all. Before that, we had much to learn about the good example. Last but not least, the good example of these benches is coming out, and we have only 80% of the salaries that are legally due to us. And this Parliament has adopted a 20% reduction. We are also the only ones, if we are already talking about the ratings that we have so many times put into the media, which we do not have a recognised academic title allowance, then the restrictions on reimbursement of travel costs, especially for greater distances, then the departures that we have heard about earlier, which in the case of Members and other officials are extended to one year, and the directors get it in a single amount, and in a large amount, we have heard many times today, two years. The point is that obviously someone has an interest in creating negative selection in terms of getting a little bit more than half of the previously mentioned blind who are pressing buttons. In politics, it is not possible to be rich in a fair way, as wages do not allow it. Therefore, the motive to be rich in material terms is not to engage in politics. At times, however, it was possible to be rich spiritually. However, there will be fewer and fewer for such degradation and, therefore, fewer for the best, capable ones who will decide on such an activity. And once again, we see that the thing is focused on negative selection. I certainly do not agree with the fact that the purpose of this government is to save, but it is certainly the purpose of this government to survive as much as possible with the means as possible and to be able to motivate and stimulate people accordingly. So let us not be cheaper, but rather try to be as good as possible. That's not the last thing people expect from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u176	Thank you, Mr. Slavinz. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate does not seem to me to be a spiritually-consuming one, even the opposite. I could say that when you look at the relationship and two halves in Parliament, you can even have fun. Those of us who vote against it will walk out of this hall with such a relaxed and joyful feeling. Unlike those who support it with their teeth. I think there'll be more satisfaction on the losing side this time. Otherwise, these principled debates, such as intelligence, sexual power and money, are always very interesting. For for the first two each thinks for himself that he has the most, while for the third of the money we all think we have too little. And that's about the way this debate is going to be. However, if the spirit of Minister Virant was in order to save the citizens 4 billion dollars, I could support him in this good cause, and I would also advise him that there are many areas both in the field of public officials and local self-government, where he could draw on more of this money. I certainly don't object to an increase in the mayor's salary. Those who work faithfully, seriously, and responsibly in their congregations certainly deserve little. However, some who are merely ornamental to their congregations have designed four parishioners who do the left - hand part of the work instead of them, but there is a dilemma as to whether the matter is going in the right direction. And one of the reflections concerning the reform of local self-government and the initiative of the Minister to consider, and this is very serious, even on these matters and on this relationship. It is also funny that the height of a mayor’s salary is not decided by the real work and results, but by the reflection of the ruling coalition that supports him. This feeling, however, is not as real at times as political. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u178	Thank you, Mr. Sayovic. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u179	Thank you, President. This dynamic of our performances is quite fast. The opposition Members quickly come to the word obviously because the coalition has little to say and the content of their previous performances is such that it points more to the self-adjustment of what their rulers have ordered them to do. At least that is how I feel when I have listened to some of the few coalition MPs so far. When I attended this meeting of the National Assembly today, and yesterday before yesterday, actually, I received calls from my supporters, because I'm one of those who's calling me the Mayor of Maribor, and they said to me, "Milan, please, don't say anything about this law today, because it's only going to hurt you." They're right. Today, it is very delicate to talk about this, because Mr Virant, with his performances so far, managed to turn public opinion in this direction, that everything concerning the salaries of Members and the salaries of mayors is blasphemous, especially after yesterday's low-level show in the lower-level local TV studio with the low-level leader and in my opinion, those calls were even stronger "I, do not dare talk about the salaries of Members". So, it's no reason that I'm not going to talk about Members' salaries, the reason is that many have already said everything. But I'm going to talk about that part of this marriage that concerns one part of the officials, and these are the mayors. In the Liberal Democracy, we are aware that some mayors have been underestimated at their level of wages and we welcome the fact that some movements have also taken place at this level. However, we are convinced that all of these mayors, as well as the parishioners, needed to raise such a radical level of classes, which they therefore belong to, because we know that from the previous lowest 36 now it has risen to the lowest 46th, which means 10th grade. That means, of course, if you calculate, the highest rise among all those who so far are actually covered in this new decree. We have nothing against mayors, we have nothing against some of the changed valuations, but we note that those mayors who are mayors of the smallest municipalities are, in fact, overestimated by our judgment. We believe that this is because this political coalition has some of its ambitions, some of its intentions, which have already been demonstrated in the establishment of new congregations, when these congregations, are in fact almost small, even through the arguments of higher budgetary resources, were given a positive opinion or, therefore, were largely voted or likely to be voted in the national assembly. Of course, I don't know if you've told your citizens what it's gonna mean to raise the mayor's salary in the smallest municipalities. What does that mean? When you raise the mayor's salary, it means you're interfering with the budget. And by raising the mayor's salary, it means that, with that restriction known, 15% of the world's most saints can get for meetings, it means that you also raise the amount of wages or these meetings for saints and, of course, in the mass it means a calculation that will literally be the principles of the budget, because I do not believe that Mr Virant, who talks about savings, on the one hand, will tell Minister Bajuk or Minister Zhagar to improve the criteria for funding these municipalities, because he will indirectly increase public administration. Let me illustrate this by saying that I will not use the example of a hypothetical congregation that belongs to up to 2 000 people in the municipality. In this case, this municipality is 700 people with a budget of 72 million. So far, according to this methodology, this mayor has received a net salary of 5 million 962 and according to an analogy of 15%, meetings of municipal councillors were 5 million 526. Together it was 10 million, and out of 72 million, 10 million were officials themselves, and that was 15% of a municipal budget at that level. Following the new ranking in the higher pay grade, these expenditure for the mayor's salary will increase to 7 million 700, for the saints to 8 million 100, total to 15 million 800, or that will mean 22% of the municipal budget or 7% of the increase compared to the previous situation, the prevailing situation. We do not say that there was no need to work, but at such a height, and in this way it is very questionable. The question is whether all these consequences of one such case are also calculated in all the other cases in this mass of increased expenditure on officials, especially if we know that this will happen in the already established municipalities, that this will happen with the new municipalities, and in this mass our calculation is to increase this consumption by a billion. If this is rational, prudent, proper conduct, let the government, of course, think about how it saves, how it speaks, how it acts soberly, wisely in all these ways. For this reason and only for this reason, I have decided to discuss these functional salaries, how many of these anomalies, how many of these disproportionates, how many of these open questions there are, how widespread is the possibility that these salaries of mayors will also fall on the principle of the autonomy of local communities even outside these defined classes in the range, because they are very large. How many of these possibilities are there that the Minister or Prime Minister, or, I don't know, will distribute all the ministers who are politically more appropriate than those who are slightly less suitable, into their classes, how they will do it, and who will do it with us Members, these are all the other questions that have already been asked, so I'm not talking about them. Of course, I don't intend to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u180	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go, Mr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Given that there is quite a debate behind us and that a few questions have opened up, it seems appropriate for me to reply at this point, to replicate certain matters. The first point that has been raised is the issue of the harmonisation of both the law and the decision with the social partners, i.e. the trade unions of the public sector. The fact is that neither the law nor the decrees are aligned with them, that we have worked for a long time to achieve this harmonisation. In fact, when it comes to legislative proposals when it comes to laws and other regulations falling within the competence of the national assembly and government, it is, of course, necessary for social dialogue and social partnership to be understood as a procedural standard. This means that it is necessary for trade unions to submit proposals for consideration, that they have the right to express their views, their comments, that they also have the right to hear arguments on the other hand and, in the event that there is no harmonisation, the Government is particularly obliged to argue the proposals in non-coordinated points. That's the standard. If this standard required full harmonisation of all laws, regulations, trade union regulations, then, of course, politics in that country would not be determined by the government and the national assembly, the national assembly and the government, but would be determined by trade unions. In this case, public sector unions, of course, represent one small part of the electoral body. When we are talking about salaries in the public sector, of course, we are talking about the whole. It should also be said that the law itself on the public sector wage system explicitly stipulates that the functional salaries are regulated by a decision of the National Assembly and that the directors' salaries are regulated by a decision of the Government and by collective agreements. And on this concept, this system was agreed by the unions in 2002, a declaration was signed on the harmonisation of the law on the public sector wage system. In particular, I thank you for all the positive discussions and for your support for the government proposal. I am aware that, as Minister of Public Administration, I am sitting in a hot chair where it is my job to arrange wages in the public sector, perhaps because of this area, this is one of the hottest chairs I am fully aware of. And as has been said today, no one is usually satisfied with their salary or at least not fully. I've already said in the introduction that the decree eliminates many anomalies. You all probably know how the functions were classified and how they are now classified in the pay grade. I would not mention the most pronounced anomalies; I would comment only on the observation that the situation is deteriorating or that the so-called independent and supervisory institutions are being treated inadequately will not hold up. The judiciary, as an independent branch of government, the Court's treatment as an independent branch of government, is demonstrated at symbolic level by the fact that the President of the Supreme Court is now equal to the Presidents of the other branches of government; I think this is an important step in the symbolic alignment of these three branches of government. The Attorney-General, as the top of an independent supervisory institution which performs an important function, is classified in the 64th pay grade. And if we compare it to the current situation where the Attorney-General has a lower salary, for example, from the Deputy Secretary-General of the Republic, I think this is a major step forward in eliminating wage imbalances. I would like to comment on some of the comments that have been made when the government regulates the salaries of Members. Of course, the final decision on the law and the decree is at the national assembly, i.e. the Members. You are the MPs who will press the button for or against, the government is the proponent, which means that you will be the ones who will arrange your wages, as well as ours, or you will not. And like all other laws, the procedure was the same. So the government is coming to Parliament as a candidate and the National Assembly will decide on the proposal. Of course, it is not just the salaries of Members and Ministers; we represent a relatively small part of the total number of officials, including the share of the amount of wage funds, so today you are deciding on a significantly broader issue. The calculation made by Mr Petek is based on the assumption that the local community would make maximum use of all the possibilities for meeting members of the municipal council and the sub-districts. For this, the municipal council and the mayor take full responsibility and must also put an account before the electorate. And that's right. We have local self-government, mayors and municipal councils responsible for the management of local budget money, and this is also true for salaries. How much they hire, what salaries are paid in the municipal administration, what salaries will be assigned within the range to the parishioners and what meetings to the saints, of course, is a matter of a congregation. This is not a matter for the Minister of Finance, or for the public administration, or for the government, or for the National Assembly, we have local self-government to do so and we have local elections to do so. Many times today it has been said why you are saving in this area, why you are not saving in other areas. See, savings projects run in many areas and many of the things that have been pointed out today, hold and take seriously, and we also intend to do so. The question of the question, for example, Mr Kumra, which has been raised in relation to meetings in the Supervisory Councils, in the Councils of Public Institutions and so on, is very appropriate and we are doing so; the Ministry of Finance is preparing a regulation on this subject. And there's a lot of maneuverable space. I could also tell you in which areas we have already made concrete savings, but I do not think that this is linked so much to today's topic that it is necessary. However, what I want to stress is that we are not dealing in any way with this issue in a partial way, but this is one of the projects. And the 'ceterum censeo' of this global, such as a global reduction in functional salaries, which in fact stems from the proposal to amend the allowance at work, does not mean a reduction in salaries for public servants. I've stressed this a number of times today. And that's it. The relationship between the legislative and executive branches of power does not change in a paid sense, and remains unchanged. Thus, the data do not indicate in this direction that the executive branch of the visa would improve the salary position and the numbers show otherwise. While these relations do not change in favour of Parliament, they remain unchanged.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u182	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Jelinčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is said that we are Members, in fact those 90 who follow us here, the authority of this country, which makes laws and confirms them. As it appears, we are no longer and will be divided into classes, Member 1, Members 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. That reminds me of the Russian constitution of 1937. At the time, they also shared things together, and one wonders if this is not the first step among some strange levelers, when in time it will come that the first-class TOR surgeon will be at the same level as the power plant, with more words. The President of the National Assembly is also supposed to be the first to be one of the same after the parliamentary celebrations of Europe and the world. What will be the first of the same if we're already divided into six classes? But that's not going to work. It's in conflict with everything. And I agree that we cannot seek some savings for the country in this way. Of course we can't look for them. Don't save it here, don't save it in pencils, save it somewhere else. It can be saved in court. The judiciary is overpaid 10 times and the prosecution is overpaid. For that job they do, they get 10 times too much pay. After all, German twinning showed this and proved it to them, and when that German expert showed it to them, he was expelled from Slovenia by judges and prosecutors before he published it to the end and before he did his research. And when Mr. Minister said something Latin, I would say that it somehow translates into thinking that it goes according to the principle of "Go profanum vulgus et arceo". And who is this "profanum vulgus"? We who to them, the power that he has in his hands conducts, how we will breathe. After all, we are Members, as we know, somewhere in 25,000 places, on wages, if we look in general, except for one of the 300 highest paid, I mean 177th place, while the Maribor Prosecutor's Office is 24th place, and the District Court in Murski Sobota even 4th place. I mean, a man asks the Ombudsman, and one who should protect Slovenian citizens and citizens is in sixth place. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Yeah, where is this thing right now that's supposed to be kind of balanced, please. After all, if we look at what else the country offers in Slovenia to the Gypsies, then let [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u184	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Very briefly. So when we talk about eliminating wage imbalances in the public sector, and even when it comes to salaries for officials, we certainly don't mean lowering wages, and of course we stress the fact that the most affected are older people, who are getting paid back to them in the part that they acquired with an allowance for working age, after 30s, 35s and more years. And now comes the penalty for their long-term work, in the worst case, for those who retire, first by reducing their salary, and then with the impossibility to extend their working hours, although they are capable, good and could obtain a bonus under Article 52 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, it is said that it is already another punishment for older employees, even though it is for officials. For I have not once heard in my explanations the proposer say clearly and publicly that these wages are too high. But a thousand other reasons were listed in order for this decree to be adopted as it is. I say, in many ways, it is better than it was at the beginning, but in view of the fact that there has been a debate on the additions, which, if this is accepted, do not mean a reduction in public sector wages as a whole. But that is the purpose and purpose, and no one can overlook it today. And in that case, then the thing gets complicated up to [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] "ad generals" for everyone later, and this is not what we're talking about, given that we've come to Europe and so on. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u186	Thank you. Mr Gulic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u187	Dear Mr. President! Dear colleagues, colleagues and Mr. Minister! The two wills have shown themselves in this decision, one in order to settle matters, which is certainly to be welcomed and appreciated. The second, on the memorial level, is arranged to reward one another, for example, to punish or at least not reward one another. If we take a quick look, just like that, at the diagonal, we see that those who are in some way close to the government are rewarded, at heart. In order not to reward those who are far from it, who are in some way either a control mechanism or at least a disrupting element, such as a national assembly, but which is not so uniform and must be constantly persuaded. Inside of this, of course, people are still classified in, say, six classes and, of course, in some way, they kill equality and actually evaluate what the electorates did, they elected us as Members and Members of Parliament, but not as Members of the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and I do not know which class there is anything else to do. In general, we have a group of people, which has also proved to be on the Committee on Home Affairs, which is not satisfied with this, and neither are the judges. Because let's see, not the school kids and not the kids. Basically, not only was there no agreement, but there was obviously no discussion, at least I don't know about him, to talk about these things. Of course, I will not support this decision, because not only does it increase the differences between people, but it is also discriminatory. So, be obedient, good, and so on, and you'll be, say, rewarded or at least we won't beat you. But if you are different, you will be unrewarded or punished in some way. The fact that pay is not a reflection of reputation is true. But the proponent knows very well that it is also being measured to see the reputation in this way, but above all it is seen in this way, by whom it is appointed, by whom, by whom, by whom, by whom, by whom, by whom, by whom, or by whom. That's where you can see it. Not so much at this height, or it's 0.3%, or it's 0.5, or it's 80%, or it's going to be 100%, or we don't actually know how this is going to happen, and it's going to measure, but it's about who owns who. And of course here, Mr Virant, who has not been able to check for elections, but is a little different here, has put himself in exactly the position when he sets it. And we've been here since morning, actually, now it's six hours and something else, sort of leads in this hard fog, but it's such a beautiful day out there. I am convinced that, even in this way, when it comes to telling how everything needs to be systematically regulated and explained and made transparent, that, of course, with this good will, which everyone here probably supports, there is, of course, a lot of other things going on in this package. And that's what's bad, and that's what we hear, of course, if not in here, but in the hallways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u188	Thank you, Mr. Gulic. Mr Hwauc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The previous point has repeatedly pointed out that the law is in relation to the decree we are considering now. On the contrary, of course, it all leads to the conclusion that this decree is also in relation to all salaries in the public sector. So, with all 150,000 and a few other employees in this sector. Therefore, even when we are talking about the salaries of officials, we cannot go beyond the public sector wage law, which we have since 2002 in the original content, but we do not have any system of public sector wages. What we have today is not a system, it's just a shit nest, where everything is threaded and on average, and where there's a lot of stuff sticking out of it, in short, nothing reprehensible. I am aware that the change in this situation is a very difficult task, very complicated, in my opinion, too. If this were a simple task, we would probably start solving it in 2002. If this were a simple task, it would probably not be so hot to have debates in the preparation and adoption of these documents, which we are currently considering. Last but not least, for at least fifteen years, I myself have been engaged in wage negotiations, for the pay system, for the evaluation of work, for the collective agreement in the system, where there were 15 or 18,000 employees, and I have experienced on my own how difficult and complicated this task is. So it is necessary to welcome the Government's intention and determination to establish some order in this area. A few steps have already been taken here. There has already been a regulation on the salaries of directors in the public sector; at the previous point, we have considered the proposal for a law; we now have a decree on the salaries of officials. It is clear to me that there are always comments, concerns, objections to such changes. Everyone probably appreciates themselves most or sees themselves first, everyone is the most important and such a reaction is, as far as I am concerned, completely natural, completely logical, so I am not surprised by many comments. I agree, however, that it would be ideal if the pay system could be changed to raise wages for all or at least remain at the same level. Unfortunately, this does not work in practice or is going to be more difficult. We are facing restrictions of a purely financial nature, and in our case this is certainly not feasible. If we want to fix some wage imbalances, then it's no different than to cut where it sticks, cut, and put where it was the biggest shortage. And that's how this decree works. Some of the cases have already been mentioned, the mayor, the prosecutor, etc., who apparently has been affected by inconsistencies or incomparability within the system. Some of these, however, were also thrown up, and this had to be arranged. I would not judge whether this decision is ideal or could not have been better prepared. Nor would I conclude whether all procedures were really well and effectively implemented when the decision was being prepared and in the stage of adoption. However, I would like to say that this decree is a first and very important step towards achieving the necessary harmonisation and elimination of wage imbalances for officials and that this is one of the important steps also towards wage regulation in the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u190	Thank you. Mr. Janc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! This area that we have today, the decree on the salaries of officials, is a state that I think is completely out of order. What we have been hearing about the disproportionate salaries of certain directors of institutions, public enterprises, such and other companies, literally exceeds all the standards of some normal salary, including officials such as the mayor and Member of Parliament, etc. However, I do not complain about the Member's salary because I was used to the low mayor's salary, and this is much better for me. However, I am pleased with the work in this decree, but here I am thinking of the small municipalities and mayors who have been so undervalued in this Slovenian space, whether it be small or large, the real shame for this function which he has been and still works for, the mayor of the Slovenian municipality. Trust me, sometimes in a small congregation, the mayor has to work even more than the one in the big congregation, because he's on his own for a lot of things. And this decree certainly corrects this, this disgrace many years ago and here I give this positive opinion on this story, because the mayor is practically a person in the congregation, who is also a beacon for everything that happens in that bad congregation; and this is a lot of things and it is usually the same mayor's fault for all things. And that's for a low salary. His worker, which lasts from Monday to Sunday, not 40 hours, but 80 hours and more a week, and that he was paid so badly for that work, is a disgrace to the former government, and he is still blushing, and my assessment is that it is not the most appropriate arrangement, for those in a few large congregations will not achieve any good or greater progress in wages. But I don't complain about it myself, because after all, I think more about those small Slovenian congregations that are large. It is true that this abnormal situation in certain salaries, which was that a designated director of a public institution, agencies receive a higher salary than the Prime Minister, I mean, this is in short inappropriate, tasteless. And from this point of view, I welcome this decree, which will somehow settle. What we are talking about is the current situation, which is still in force, the decree has not yet been adopted and I am talking about what it is, what I am experiencing, what we are feeling, and, finally, what is in local self-government. I've talked about this before at the last point. After all, it is logical that the principal of the kindergarten may have a higher salary than the mayor of the municipality, any - it is not logical; the director of the institution - a better salary than the mayor of the municipality, etc. These are anomalies that don't drink water completely, so to speak. As far as these other things are concerned, I have already asked Minister Drobnič the question that he is trying to settle in his area of retirement in societies where the majority owner has abstained, about wages, about meetings which are enormous, which are inappropriate, and this is what the state should also do, these stories. I hope that, after the adoption, I believe that today's law and decree will, however, follow this order also further or will only stop here. I'm afraid if it stops here, at this point, then of course we didn't do anything about it. I know, however, that when we decide about ourselves, about our destiny, there is no one in the heart to press the button for these salaries to be reduced, not even to me, but I hope that this Slovenian story, this public sector and these anomalies that have been happening between the salaries of such and other management people, will slowly lead to some common denominator to know who is on top, who is lower there, who is from below. If that is the case, then of course this decree sits down and makes sense. If not, then we haven't done anything. I will not talk about the role of a Member and the salary on purpose, because I find this inappropriate at this point. However, I would only like to see that he may come once clearly, so at least the Minister of Virant addresses, and with the law on Members of Parliament, we may also make a European comparison of how Members in Italy, Austria, Hungary, etc., and I hope that we will try to lead this matter once and for all, so that it will be appropriate. The fact is, I also get to know many Members who have carried out a mandate, one or two or even more, are, in one way or another, "written" for their careers, for their work, and are literally placed on the brink of society and society, and usually nobody takes care of it. No one asks this question in this society, whether this Member is also valid after we have completed our term in the next or perhaps another one, then someone takes care of it - no one, no one. You are contaminated with a customer, with politics and such no one in the economy or anywhere else of course does not want to have. So I hope that then we may say in the Members' Act, specifically, whether this Member is really a non-digestion in this society, or whether it is really such a minor matter. I think it's the opposite. The Member was elected directly, each individual had to gain the confidence of the electorate in his/her environment for his/her term of office in one way or another. That is why, not least, this same Member, the same Parliament appointed the Prime Minister, appointed ministers and, by the constitution, certainly has its place, but unfortunately, I think that today is getting more power from the executive power than from the legislative power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u192	Thank you, Mr. Janz. Mr. Germich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u193	Thank you so much for saying that. So today, when we are actually discussing both documents, both the amendment of the law and the decree, it is kind of a red thread, that it is somehow necessary to give an example and an example should also be given in relation to one branch to another branch of authority. Unfortunately, today I note that the government would like to transfer everything to the National Assembly in the sense that we should point out that with lower income we are somehow justifying the example of this society. It is certainly clear to me that it is not possible to regulate the reputation of this institution only by means of salaries in the National Assembly. Of course, we can regulate this in a way that deals with proposals that come to the national assembly so that there will not be so much controversy between us, so much hard and difficult words, because those who should make certain arrangements, make talks sooner, do not make them, pass them on to us who actually have to do all the negative work that someone should have done earlier in the public eye. And in this context, it seems very cynical to me by the Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that you have decisions before you, you will decide, you will tell the Slovenian public that you do not want to change this pay system in the way that the government has kindly proposed. What does the government propose? The government is proposing that nothing will change, just a very narrow group that should be an example. But this pattern only makes sense for something else to change. That's why it's very difficult to understand, at least according to our pohorical logic, that we're going to be someone's model for something to change, and that's never going to change. So the mass remains the same, this drop into the sea, which will be on this savings, will be a good example. Or how to create the reputation of this Parliament - certainly in the relationship between the government and Parliament, by addressing good proposals here, and not by considering them as favouring one group today at the expense of another group, so that we do not hope to implement this opinion we have with our teeth. When I entered the electoral process and was elected, I was also aware of all the consequences that followed the end of the term of office. Of course, I didn't realize that you're so strongly labeled when you come back, that because you're a politician, you're the worst; and even those who don't know you -- maybe when you ask him about a particular thing, say exactly what action you're giving me this seal for, and then you're actually speechless. In this context, I want the government and Parliament to create a reputation for each other; a reputation - not in demagogies, but on the shared responsibility that there is a choice here of somehow those who have the confidence of the electorate and electorate every so long. I cannot agree with this demagogic thesis that when you become an example, Members are also offering this example on the other hand. Mr. Virant, you are a member of the government, and these examples could be influenced many times by your actions in the government, and certainly personally by your actions. You never mentioned, say, absolute numbers. This was discussed by his colleague Jelinčič, who put Members in some place in this society. You never mentioned, say, what you as Secretary of State before, but now as Minister you can do what none of the Members can do. And you're doing this, you're doing this because you've also been given habilitation, habilitation, and you've given an example of what I don't think in Slovenia there can be an example of habilitation for such professors at this level, because here we can talk, as has been said today, about good and bad examples. And, of course, from this point of view, with what has already been said today, with all these anomalies that you bring here and you're not bringing in the fact that there's not actually going to be a negative selection that's going to include people on the candidate lists in decisions who want to join the national assembly, because the recent message in the media was that the education structure of us who are here is falling. I think it is desirable that, in the 1990s, we do have those chosen to contribute to the best decisions and respect of both the government and the national assembly, with a wide variety of experiences. Unfortunately, today, Minister, in a number of performances, you were not exactly an example of behaviour towards the National Assembly. On the basis of all these facts presented today, of course, I will not support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u194	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u195	This is one of those things that is usually the rule of this government, or the rule is that it is necessary to throw a bone in the public in order to deal with irrelevant things, and it is the government, the distribution of people, some set wages, others it takes away from them, as it is their love. Otherwise, it would not be possible to understand the headlines in the newspapers today: Members on wages and in the judiciary it is boiling. So it's the MPs who are boiling. No, no, no. Because of the government's proposals. Today we have heard, Members of the Coalition have had strong will to change some things - you have not allowed them. You allowed them to raise eight of the thousands here in the decree for one pay grade from 61 to 62, and one for the seven people for one class, that's about 0.5% for the pay, to change with an amendment, an amendment that everyone signed. In all the other things, you've obviously brought them to their senses, and you've obviously brought them to their senses. Mr. Janc is talking about kindergartens, principals, mayors. Yes, poor mayors, who are Members and a third of the mayor's salary, are indeed poor. And now, of course, on the increased basic - very sophisticated, as in the case of prosecutors there, some others and so on, as others have already talked about. I'm talking about the congregation of Sevnica. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'm talking about the congregation of Sevnica. I'm talking about the congregation of Sevnica. And of course, when you talk about how Members of Parliament decide, let everyone say what they say in the halls there, what they really want to do, do as they do. God will not allow you to do this tomorrow, as you have foretold, that you will also do the law of the Members. There is no parliament in a democratic world where the government - you said on television yesterday - announced that the government would pass a law on Members. Even 13 years ago, when the congregation was still rotting on the way out, the Law on Members was written in or in the National Assembly because it was the idea of three different and independent branches of government in that country, and one of them is the National Assembly. Now after the new obvious, and according to your predictions, it won't be, and it can't be. How do you explain saying that the mass of salaries for officials will be reduced and wages will be reduced, and not for officials, and we will all share the same fate? I'm willing to share it, and I'm always rooting for it. Negotiate, negotiate, and when you arrive at the end of the negotiations, come here, as well as work is done, this is negotiated between the social partners, the unions of public servants, the national assembly to coordinate this on these grounds. That'd be right. Not the other way around. I am now even saying this, and I am convinced that there have been no anomalies at the level of the functional and certain salaries that are being regulated here. There is no speech in this section about those directors mentioned by the various Members here, there is no talk about kindergartens, there is no talk about what I don't know. I say that for the past decade, the best-ordered salaries of officials, i.e. in the National Assembly of Members, have been. Go look at the payment sheets and you'll see that no deviation anywhere, in tolar exactly - yes. The ones you've been here since the beginning, you know what I'm talking about. And since there were no such anomalies, it is not justified and it is unfair that, because you will be able to negotiate with the unions, you will tell how you will set an example with the Members and lower your wages and leave them on the same basis. There were no anomalies in the National Assembly. None of them did their own accounting, but on the basis of the law and the tolar, even every month at least ten of the highest wages are published in various newspapers. For no other authority, for any public company, for any kindergarten, if you will, there is no such congregation as it is for the National Assembly. And you say here, of course, that it is anomalies, that it is I don't know what and that it is necessary to point your finger at Members because they do. Nowhere does it say that the government is here defending this and that, as it has been said, it does not leave the Members - I have heard from the coalition Members - let nothing change or be coordinated, as stated in the Coalition Treaty. That's a fact. I can't help but listen, watch, read and find out. But I do not allow myself to answer the obvious, to the understatement, that there are anomalies at the office's salaries, where the National Assembly also belongs, and that is why it is necessary to reduce the salaries of Members so that they can blackmail public servants, which according to yours will not happen. It's gonna happen. By the same principle as in the decision on the salaries of officials, on classification. Those who are close, liked, have already been told, will go up, and those who do not - also the Members have become accustomed to it. You must have put that right in their heads. The Member said at the previous point, literally, those who will be good, kind, those who will get more will be stimulated. Those who don't, thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u196	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I really would not want any of my sayings today to sound like disrespect for the National Assembly or for elected representatives of the people. I should therefore like to stress once again that the law provides that the National Assembly, by decree, appoints officials or holders of public functions or functions themselves, if you wish, into wage classes, that this decision has been taken in Parliament in 2002 and that the government is obliged to do so. Of course, we could change the law, we could break the concept of the uniformity of the pay system, but we agree with it. He was appointed in the previous term, the previous coalition put him up, but this principle is good and we are now implementing this law. And the government must draw up a proposal for a decision on the classification of posts in pay grade and bring them to the National Assembly. The government must do so, but of course the decision is at the national assembly. The mass of wage funds in the public sector has already been discussed today, Mr Anderlič, once again, I stress that the wages in the functional segment will be reduced on the assumption that the law and the decree have been adopted, which does not mean that the salaries of public servants will be reduced. Once again, the average civil servant's salary today consists of about 60% of the basic salary and 40% of the allowances. And the work-life allowance goes solely on the basis, which means that for a public servant today the allowance for the working-life "de facto" means 0.3. For you, for me and for other officials, 0.5 actually means 0.5 on the full salary. And if we want in a new system based on unity and that the basic pays a fully valued job, to maintain and not increase the amount of wage funds, then of course we cannot keep the allowance for the working period 0.5%. This was already realized by the previous government, and it has also adopted negotiating ground 0,3. As far as the directors are concerned, I would like to remind you of these anomalies, which you mention, have been partially eliminated, at least in part, by an intervention law which entered into force last year 1.7, and the Public Sector Directors' Salaries Regulation takes effect with 1.3. And since then, we can say that compliance with the regulations with these anomalies will not be possible. However, we have also analysed or collected data on directors' salaries in the public sector in recent months. And where we found that something was shearing something that didn't match, we called the department to explain and found some irregularities. And there, in these segments, demands have already been made for the recovery of overpaid salaries. This was also made public. The categories of Members, of course, do not speak of a Member, one, two, three and so on, but determine the salary of Members within the range, according to the function performed by each Member in the national assembly. Categories already exist today, are reflected in functional supplements, are expressed in different wage classes in the new system. Thus, nothing changes here except what Mr Anderlich rightly found that the number of these classes is decreasing by one.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u198	Thank you. Mr Janc spoke to Mr Anderlich in the replica of Mr Anderlich's implementation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I suggest to my colleague Anderlich that in the autumn there will be local elections to try to run for mayor of one municipality, try to win these elections, and he will certainly get that supplement with him. Last but not least, if I add up my allowance and the Member's salary, I still do not receive the salary of Mr Anderlich's Member, but I work at least 12 hours a day every day, even on Saturday, and this is probably one of the aspirations of both. However, it would be right to say that, during the rule of the LDS, the mayoral function was extremely, extremely neglected. Thank God that small mayors in small municipalities will now receive some compensation for what has been underestimated in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u200	Thank you. Mr. Pavlich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Mr. Minister with a colleague, dear colleagues and colleagues! I might be able to address my short performance with the words I read in the newspaper today: Members of Parliament on wages and in the judiciary it is boiling. I will not support the ruling itself for the many reasons that have been presented today, but I would focus on the area that I may know the most. This is justice or justice. Apparently, judges have been on duty lately for all, for the backlogs of justice, for the so-called illegal state, both the public and politics are demeaning them, defiance them, criticising them, while at the same time counting on the situation to be better with some miracle program of Lokenda tomorrow. Already and, of course, with all the praise and praise of Minister Sturm and all the others involved, but without appropriate motivation, this miracle program is unlikely to bring any miracles. Answer me this question: How can one who has been studying for four or five years read thousands of pages, take about 70, 80 exams, then spends two or three years again to see the time for a judicial exam, and waits for a few years again as a professional associate to possibly elect him as a judge, how can he be motivated to do his job, as he will have the salary after that decision, as is the lowest paid mayor who holds a position in the smallest municipality of less than 2,000 inhabitants? It should be noted that one important difference is between the representatives of the executive or, last but not least, the legislative and judicial authorities. Judges are extremely limited in the exercise of any other activity under Article 133 of the Constitution, so-called incompatibilities of the judicial function with others. Here and there, we can broadcast something, and that is it, not to have a business, not to have any other afternoon trades or activities; in short, more or less bring home if we are talking about pay, what is a good end of the month. It is no wonder, therefore, that it is in the District Courts that young people, if they come to the District Court, will last for a year or two, and then they prefer to go to the Bar, to the Notary, to the Economy, to politics or to university because of me; in short, wherever wages are significantly better. That's why I personally don't think relationships are good. Firstly, if we compare the district judge with the mayor or with other officials, my proposal would be that, for example, salary classes begin with factor 45 for the district judge and then for district 48, for district criminal judge 49 and for senior judge 51. In fact, I am merely quoting the judiciary, the Slovenian Judicial Society, the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Testen, and, in short, all the expertise. This would also prevent or at least reduce the fluctuation of the judicial profession by better relations. In fact, the outflow of judges to other professions is frightening and highlights this contradiction: on the one hand, we need to reduce judicial backlogs and on the other hand, there will be fewer and fewer good staff. Of course, I don't even think about the phenomenon of feminization as a liberal. However, the profession also clearly points to this problem. Nor can we compare judges with state lawyers or, for example, with prosecutors. These are the parties to the proceedings and the judge is the person who must take the decision with full responsibility. And if I finish with the vice presidents and the presidents of the courts. It also points out that they are unjustifiably favoured. Last but not least, they're one of the same. And again, we're getting into a contradiction. Minister Virant said at a meeting of the parliamentary committee that they should have a better reward, a higher salary for having to take on the role of managers. Is that right? That's why Minister Sturm didn't appoint Mr. Zalar if he was too busy with management and too little with the judiciary. It would be good for the ministries and the executive branch to be united in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u202	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u203	We have already talked a lot about this today, so that my debate will be very brief, just one question. The former government has appointed ministers in the 61st class, and this government has appointed some ministers in 64. Why?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u204	Thank you. Mr. Juban has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I'm very limited in time. What else can I say? I don't want to back this decision. In my hearing here today, I can see that all these years ago, those fellow Members who initiated the circus and the demagogies around the privileges of officials and Members were, as a rule, not elected in the next elections. I will not support this decision either - not because it is, for example, in relation to the previous part of the Act on the Reduction of the Worktime Supplement. Because of me, even though I'm among the elders, the supplement can be nothing, I don't care. And what will happen after this decision, even if there is a gross reduction, you can't do anything to me. That's why I'm not going to get hurt and I'm going to survive this term. But what's done is not fair. And these stories that are present with us - yesterday we read in the newspaper, so that some of us in the torture chamber would have to work for the parliamentary salaries. Please, what kind of climate are we creating? Work in this house, especially in the coalition. From the previous period, we had a colleague who introduced a law on the reduction of all privileges. Six months ago, he was in front of the cameras because he wasn't elected either. He said in front of the cameras, he'd be crazy if he hadn't taken advantage of all the ratings he was given under the laws of the MPs. Another colleague from the same political party said behind the door to the Presecnik: "vote this law on our privileges, I cannot because mine will kill me." These are stories that are also present this time [[...]] [[The voice from the hall.]] Yeah, it's true, Jacob, you don't remember. [[...]] [[...]] [[The voice from the hall.]] He told you. [[...]] We know who said it. In short, the stories are that lead to when it is - now I will conclude - Mr Oman said, "Let's end this House, let's choose our beloved leader." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u206	Thank you. Mr. President has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u207	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. So much has been said today; I have already indicated some things in the opinion of the Group of Members, but I would like a little bit of the discussion today, which has been said, including the breaking of hands, etc. I must say that I have always ensured, even through coalition coordination, that the principle that it is necessary in accordance with the law adopted in 2002 and which has indicated that these things need to be regulated, I have advocated that these things should be regulated and that they will be comparable, that they will also be visible to individual relations, individual differences. I assure and I am sure that the current solutions that are being saved by individual sectoral laws are that we have such a situation because things are not comparable. There are many discussions today on the existing system - not so much on the new system, on the existing system, where the differences are huge, where there is a table of actual wages, where there are - what one of the Members said earlier - where someone is. That's from this old table. And that's why we need to work this out. I am sure - earlier, in the opinion of the Group of Members, I said that it would be possible in some time, I hope that it will be possible when certain relations prove to be incorrect, that it will be possible to correct them, but the fact is that this table is at least transparent if not otherwise. My colleague Janc said earlier that I would rather expect the law on Members to resolve the matter. I also have some practice from a few years ago, my colleague Juban mentioned them, and I will be the last to open up anything to be done with a new law on Members at all. Because so much demagogy, which was then there and which was there in 1998, or 1999 so there is almost no longer any demagogy. That's why I'm so strongly opposed to trying anything at all. This will only be discussed, which is today, and five times worse. So, regardless, even in some discussions with which individuals disagree, I reiterate, we also rescue local authorities, we save mayors, especially mayors of smaller municipalities. I think the current situation is unsustainable. Although we do not solve them immediately, partly yes, but only in a few years - I think the matter will be at least partially settled. That is why, of course, I will support this decision in the final stage of the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u208	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u209	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I am not afraid of threats, as was the case with the law, when the minister said that he would count nine reasons why the supplement at work should be reduced from 0.5 to 0.3, and said seven threats and two reasons. And, of course, I will continue to defend this Parliament and not the Members and their salaries, but above all the status of the legislative branch of the government or the government, and I am now trying to ask him one thing in particular, a question and I hope that the Minister will answer me. The most legally correct would be if the basic reason for the work-time allowance is that we have officials, Members covered all the supplements, so that, of course, according to the same principle, by the same logic as other civil servants, this is also done for us. It's from the base salary is 0.5 and then this difference in your explanation and your logic is supposed to arise. That would be legally the most correct thing to do. What has been said ten times today. Secondly, we are not, at least I am not so naive as to say that state secretaries are placed before more than 80 Members of Parliament, in payment classes 61, 62. In doing so, I would remind you that the basic salaries of state secretaries, not the one that is now reflected in this class of payments, but that here is the 100% stimulation that all state secretaries received in a row. This was an opportunity and an opportunity to read in the media. It is said that their salary was made up of these two parts. Now the basic salary plus 100% stimulation of this pay grade that's here. And once again, I'm asking why some State Secretaries don't show up in the pay grade 56, 55, 57, 58. If Members may be Members, 90 Members shall be classified in Class 54 to Class 65. 11 payment classes are in between. You're not going to convince me here that it's logic, which, of course, is combined with some sense. Keep going. You answered my question Monday when I asked you a question about what you said earlier - the membership of state officials, in some cases also of officials in supervisory authorities, administration bodies, public sector individuals. This is not illogical, but it is logical, and it is common, because the government in these institutions, in these legal persons, exercises the rights and supervision of the founders. If I make this answer, then it would be logical, even if it is a transitional period, until you in the government arrange for meetings and awards, that this logic is, of course, integrated into the awards or salaries of state secretaries, officials and so on. Because these aren't so few, let me count them for you. You're the one who listed them. It's about five ministers - let others do something, we've only talked about public funds here - it's about nine secretaries of state, it's about eight CEOs, it's about one in the government, it's about 16 heads of government and it's about 17 CEOs of Directorates. So, I've told you before, it's 46 people. And when you're speaking now for 7 hours in this National Assembly about the example that we Members are going to set today would, of course, be now, and I will use this word, logically, that the government will set an example and that these things that I have spoken about will then come with a decree on the classification of officials, including secretaries of state and also ministers. And in the end, there's something else. I can honestly tell you that I'm not saying these things because of my own salary that I have here. I'm not talking. Even though I'm gray, I've got this supplement high. I'm going to say a little bit in "hec" because I'm counting on when Kosovo's commission is lifted, that the coalition will put me on the presidency of a large anti-corruption commission and I'll get a functional supplement, I don't know, 20%, and it might happen that I'll have a higher salary than I have now. I have to hope for this quietly, and I am counting on it. Before finishing only to the motioner, the government and the minister, in the parable, I would tell him that he could see himself in a film frame or a TV shot when he flew into the sky. Parkrat takes a few more steps on the ground before flying to the sky. And I suggest you take another step on the ground before we go to heaven with this decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u210	Thank you. Mr. Sušnik has the floor. [[He doesn't want to.]] Mr. Virant, there's more to the general debate, because then we'll move on to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u211	Thank you very much. This story on State secretaries' salaries has also been dealt with in the media. I think that's what the Finances have been reporting. The State Secretary's salary story was such that their salaries had been established since 1994 or at least in 1996 in such a way that a significant part of the salary covered the work performance that was not actually the case. In fact, if only from a ratio that was limited or prescribed by law, then the Secretary of State would come out there, say, in a ministry of 300 people, to 130 to 140 places after his payments, and that would of course be a huge anomaly. This "flicking," this unusual "flicking" wasn't invented by us, but it's a practice that's been going on since before. However, no one ever doubted that it was proper to determine the salary itself. This was actually a work performance that was not but a permanent fixed part of the salary, which was usually the case with most directors of public institutions. This should be stressed, most directors of public institutions have consistently received a fixed part of their work performance. It was an anomaly, but I'd say a more technical, administrative anomaly. In the case of State secretaries, it should also be borne in mind that their role in the new system today is quite different under the new legislation than in the previous one. According to previous legislation, whether or not we were State Secretaries of the Directorates, there were over 50 of us, and this was something completely different from today's Secretary of State, who is another man of the Ministry, so to speak, a small minister, if I may say so. That's his role at the Ministry. So I think it's a status that the pay grade of Secretary of State is appropriate. You could even say that the relationship with Members is getting a little worse in their favour, for one wage class. I think a few words should also be said about the problem of justice, the problem of justice. The position of the judiciary with a new decree in combination with the Judicial Service Act - we have been particularly careful to see these regulations as a whole, so that we do not get our system blown up from the very beginning - the position of the judiciary will be more favourable after all. The Judicial Branch is gaining power. It should be said that district judges are listed in the target state, which says, at the end of 2009, two pay graders are higher. Hand to heart, one wage class compensates for loss at work age, the other wage class compensates for loss due to half of the escalation that we pay each year into a disproportionate fund, approximately 1%. So on this segment, the level of their basic salaries remains unchanged. However, in the Judicial Service Act, judges - and in the Prosecutors' Law - are given the possibility of awarding after work success. That's new. That is why I say that the judicial branch of the authorities is acquiring - with the conclusion of the coordination period, so when we fully reach the new system, they will have basic salaries at about the same level and also the possibility of stimulation, at an individual level up to two years' wages, that is to say, roughly one sixth, slightly more than 16%, which can mean four pay grade actually for the best judge. It is true, however, that the judiciary and the judges at least for the time being oppose payment after work performance. So they're defending the existing balancing system. However, the government estimates - this will be specifically discussed by Minister Šturm - that the courts must apply in the same way as in any organisation, that better rewards are needed than those who are less successful, who are average or underaverage. So for the judicial branch of power, the new system is undoubtedly established; indeed, not for all judges, but only for those who are better, who are above average. And for the Presidents of the courts, the judiciary has also taken the view that we should not overly reward them, that the Presidents of the courts are only the first of the same. Well, you see, here's the difference in concept. The concept pursued by the government through the decree and the law on judicial service is, of course, that, in the judicial branch of government, as well as in the administration or in the health sector or in the economy, if you want, management is extremely important. And that the President of the Court can not only be the first of the same, but that the President of the Court is the boss, but that if this is heard heretically about the judiciary - that the President of the Court is the chief of judges and judicial staff working in a court, and that he is also responsible for the organisation that runs it. I think it is right that I have paid a little more attention to this judicial branch of government, because there have been a lot of comments, objections also at the meeting of the mother's working body and even in the debate of my colleague Paulia this has been perceived.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u212	Thank you. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of the amendment review of 1 February 2006. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Who wants to discuss it? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 13th item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.05. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Defence. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, who, as a parent working body, addressed the proposed law. I ask the committee president, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u213	Thank you, President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! At the first meeting, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Defence as the working body of the 14th Emergency Meeting. At the meeting itself, the representative of the applicant, in a brief supplementary explanation, stressed that the fundamental reason for the amendment of the Law on State Defence was a comprehensive reform in the area of the salaries of public defenders or a system of equal treatment of their salaries, in accordance with the Regulation on the salaries of officials and the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages. In addition, it is necessary to amend the applicable law also in a work which is substantively linked to other laws. It is further complemented by the regulation of the exclusive powers of state defence in its seat, while the other proposed amendments and additions to the law are of a nature such as to enable the Authority to organise its work more efficiently and more transparently, while at the same time eliminating inadequate definitions or arrangements so far. The proposer examined the comments from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and, on this basis, also prepared proposals for amendments to the Committee adopted by the Committee. At the time of presentation of the opinion of the Office, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also stressed that the applicant took into account the comments drawn from their opinion. On the basis of its opinion, it highlighted only the provision of Article 3, which provides for a solution for the State's defence to represent the State, its authorities and administrative organisations in the composition of legal persons before the courts and administrative authorities in accordance with the guidelines and guidelines of the bodies represented. The representative of the Ministry of Justice made appropriate explanations and replies to the comments made. The State Defence Representative stressed that the amendments and additions to the draft law are due to the alignment with the public sector's reform wage system and the remaining changes are intended primarily to ensure a more appropriate and efficient organisation of work within the public defence system and to ensure a better allocation of cases between officials. There were no amendments to the bill, as the Committee said it had adopted some of its amendments and adopted all the articles of the law together at the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u214	Thank you, committee president, Mrs. Mozzie Kucler Dolinar. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u215	The review of work itself, of course, states here that there should be an additional explanation for the government. That is why I propose that we allow them to do so. However, I understand that, due to the early conclusion of the previous point, the gentlemen have not yet been here.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u216	You heard the procedural proposal. Does anyone object to a government representative presenting a position? [[No, no, ……]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u217	Nicely greeted. Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a law firstly governs, in accordance with the applicable law on the public sector wage system, the payment system and the system for the appointment and promotion of state defenders. On the basis of the proposed law, the Ombudsman or Assistant has the right to a basic salary, which is determined by the pay grade, which includes his function under the decree, the right to supplement, in addition to the positional allowance and the allowance for the working period, which are adapted to the public sector wage system regulation, the right of defence lawyers to the following supplements: for mentoring, for specialisation, for doctoral studies, for bilinguals, for special burdens, for work in less favourable working conditions and for work in less favourable working hours - all under conditions laid down in the Public Sector Salary System Act. In line with the proposal, lawyers will also have the right to pay for work and the right to work for additional work performance, which is regulated in a new way in accordance with the law on public sector wage systems. It is also further regulated that the Advocate General, on the basis of an agreement with the Advocate General or the Assistant State Advocate, may decide on an increase in the labour volume or the average labour burden and on the payment for an increase in the labour volume. According to the proposal, the Government will determine the conditions, criteria and extent of payment for such an increased volume of work. The regulation described is also comparable to the proposed regulation with regard to judges and state prosecutors. Despite similarities with judges and state prosecutors in relation to the area of work carried out by state lawyers, their position is already fundamentally different from that of judges and state prosecutors. The mandate of the Advocates of State shall be limited to a period of 8 years with the possibility of reappointment. In view of this, the position of state defenders proposed by this proposal is slightly different from the proposed regulation of the situation with the judge and the state prosecutors, namely in the work on progress. The bill only highlights progress in wage classes, as provided for in the proposal for a decision on the salaries of officials. The state's attorney's assistant can advance by 9 pay grade and the state's attorney by 6 pay grade, which is comparable to the progress of district and district judges or higher judges. The Attorney-General is not making progress, as is the Chief Justice in the pay grade. Furthermore, the draft law aligns the text of the current law with other laws adopted after its entry into force in 1997 and also eliminates the shortcomings and uncertainties of the existing law on the local and actual competence of the external departments. The other changes are such that they enable bodies to organise their work more efficiently and transparently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u218	Thank you, Mr. Marolt, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u219	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! We have already heard in this House today that changes and additions to the bill are due to alignment with the reform of the wage system in the public sector. On the other hand, the amendments are also intended to ensure more appropriate and efficient organisation of work within the State Defence Office, including a more appropriate allocation of cases between officials. The question is raised as to whether they do not constitute a provision on the pay system of state defenders for the breakdown of consistency and unity that the so-called Virant payment system of officials and public servants should have. The bill regulates exceptions to the uniform regulation of the salaries of officials. In this way, state defenders will be able to receive supplements which officials cannot otherwise receive. The state's attorneys then gain special status within officials. Or where and where is the guarantee of a clear ceiling for their wages? The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has made a number of comments, almost every article of the amendment to the Law, on the basic proposal of the Government Act, which, in some ways, also raises doubts that ministries are coherent and that it is indeed a transparent reform in the field of wage policy in the public sector. The proposed amendment is also intended to change the definitions of the concept of the Ombudsman and consequently raises issues related to systemisation, promotion, basic salary, performance allowances and so on. And since the state's attorneys are not able to deal with all the cases, the last report on the work of the state's attorneys for 2004 revealed that the state's defence has significantly increased in recent years. The disputes they encounter are of crucial importance, as they stem mainly from the conduct of the State or its authorities in the exercise of the function of authority. Therefore, the new amendment extends the powers of state attorneys' assistants. On the other hand, the novelty also imposes new obligations to contribute to the reduction of judicial backlogs, of course in the global context. The fact is that several cases have been brought against the Republic of Slovenia before the European Court of Human Rights due to the unreasonable length of legal proceedings in the Republic of Slovenia. However, what will be the solution to the human resources problems that we are already facing in this country's defences? In this context, however, let it go beyond what the Government has said about the law in the context of wage policy reform in the public sector. We have already heard today that the whole reform, as I understand the law on state defence, is comparable to European wage policy. This was mentioned today at the second item of the agenda by one of the Members of the largest ruling party, namely the SDS. I don't understand whether it's a repeat of such obvious confusion of purpose only in terms of greater popularisation of the government, because reducing the salaries of officials is a popular topic for public opinion acquisition, or whether government Members do not know what they are actually deciding. In this law, which we are considering today and at this point, it clearly states, and I will quote, "for the sake of specific arrangements for the protection of the State's assets interests in other countries, it is difficult to deal with this issue in a comparative manner." I would expect ministers to think seriously when they're also operating on words like "to lead by example." Because of all this and all that we have heard today, we will not impose on the law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u220	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor to present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, the Law on State Defence is now in the process of taking a refreno. We have spoken twice today about similar laws, or those that have actually been the basis for this, and we will listen to this chorus twice in the coming week. The DeSUS therefore thinks that it is not necessary to explain our views for a very long time because we have already explained them in other proposals for laws and decrees and will have the opportunity to do so again in the coming week. However, we would like to say that this law has actually fallen into a series of circumstances that, at least in our Group of Members, are not the most favourable for it. The law has two parts. One part was presented by Secretary of State Marolt and prepared by his ministry. And the second part they inherit from the Ministry of Public Administration. And as far as your ministry is concerned, the improvements that speak about how the defence has to be given greater efficiency, how the defence can better protect our national interests and thus indirectly the interests of citizens and citizens. That's where we support him. In the second part, however, it is unfortunately challenged by provisions prejudged by the Law on the Pay System and the Law on State Officials, where we were not great enthusiasts for support. Therefore, unfortunately, we cannot provide active support, although in the part that your ministry has been preparing it would actually like it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u222	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Dimitrij Kovačič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support amendments to the State Defence Act. The proposed law makes it possible to make the state's defence more effective, and the organisation of work is more transparent. At the same time, some of the provisions so far inadequate are being abolished. Slovenia has been a part of the European Union for some time now, and it is therefore essential that mechanisms be put in place as effective as possible in the area of cooperation with the European Commission. Thus, the proposed amendment will empower the State Defence to cooperate in the preparation of the Government's views and replies in judicial proceedings before the European Commission. This will rationalise the procedure already before any later proceedings before the European Court of Justice with its specialised knowledge and practice, which is likely to be completed more than ever before the European Court of Justice begins its proceedings. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that, with some legal and organisational changes, the defence could become more effective than in the past, in order to deal with procedures where it represents the country as the guardian of state property, more vital. That certain procedures can be accelerated and completed substantially earlier than before, in order to increase the willingness to settle in questionable and uncertain procedures, provided that conditions are met, because there have been too many cases where the procedures have been incomprehensible for a long time, and in the end, the State has to pay, in addition to the loss of justice, high late interest and all the costs of the procedure. The defence will have to think more flexibly than it has ever been, and at times it will be a settlement, but not at any cost, but it will cost as much as it wants, with the justification to the end. There will be a need for a better assessment of the situation at issue, greater flexibility in decision-making, which, of course, will also mean considerable savings in budgetary money. The proposed law also aligns its provisions with the law on the public sector wage system and the decision on the salaries of officials, as has already been said today, which will also provide for a single public pay system in the area under consideration. As we say, the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposed law, as it brings the necessary changes that will allow for better and more effective work of the state defence. However, in the Office of the Ombudsman, it is possible to make use of those provisions in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u224	Thank you, Mr. Kovacich. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u225	Hello, representatives of the Ministry! The amendments and additions to the State Defence Act, as we have heard, on the one hand bring about alignment with the new wage system in the public sector. In addition, the changes are also intended to ensure a better and more efficient organisation of work in this body, which is particularly important, as we think in the New Slovenia Group, in the light of the fact that the State's defence has greater powers. Among other things, for representation in the labour and social courts, as well as in the district courts. In some cases, however, professional colleagues or state defence assistants may also be more actively involved after this novel has been adopted, which is an important evidence of an increase in individual procedures. The 2004 Annual State Defence Report shows that the number of pre-trial settlements concluded is increasing. This indicates that the country has come to a knowledge of the usefulness of this institute and is therefore more likely to follow expert opinions and recommendations. Article 14 of the Law on State Defence already in force provides that a person intending to initiate a judicial or other procedure against an entity represented by the Office of the Ombudsman must have previously proposed that the disputed relationship be resolved before a judicial or other procedure is instituted. However, the amendment defines the powers of state defence in more detail. The law also applies to that part which was not in conformity with the Constitution. It shall be coordinated with the Constitutional Court’s decision on the compulsory notification of candidates who have applied for the invitation to tender but have not been chosen. It is also the responsibility of the Advocate General to appoint and deploy lower lawyers in individual departments. In Novi Slovenija, we therefore estimate that the prepared novels are good, and we will support the changes to the state defence law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Kucleers. Mr Franz Kangler will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u227	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Defence. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the efforts of the Minister of Justice to reduce judicial backlogs. For the purpose of the Republic of Slovenia's need to remedy delays, a specific regulatory framework has been proposed in the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Defence to strengthen the effectiveness of the State's defences in order to carry out these tasks both in judicial proceedings where they represent the State and other public bodies, as well as in out-of-court settlement proceedings. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law are mainly the result of alignment with the reform of the wage system in the public sector and the other proposed changes are intended primarily to ensure more appropriate and efficient organisation of work within the public defence sector and to ensure a better allocation of cases between officials, and we will therefore fully support the law, as I mentioned above.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u228	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, that is at 5:15 p.m. I hereby terminate this item of the agenda and also interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 5:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u229	Dear Members, please calm down, take your seats and prepare for the vote. We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. I see that the voting devices are working. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - addressing the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the public sector wage system. I continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 10. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 41. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Mr. Squeakl, would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u230	Procedurally. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I request a recess on behalf of the Members' Group for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u231	You'll get it before the vote. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the voice-explanatory phase and adjourning the session in 15 minutes. We'll pick her up at 5:35.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u232	We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. Does the motioner want to break the word? Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u233	Very briefly. We just wanted to think about what was just done during this break. With everything that's been said today, there's nothing to add. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u234	Thank you. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 83 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 39. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 12th item of the agenda - consideration of the proposal for a decree on the salaries of officials. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 7. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against 16. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a full decision-making process. In doing so, I inform you that the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service have not informed me that the decision would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 39. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I find that the decision is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on state defence. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendments were tabled in the second reading of the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading of amendments. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting on the law. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against 16. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 8th item of the agenda - third reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on National Housing Savings Scheme. Yesterday, 1 February 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not warned me that the law would not be inconsistent with the law because of the amendments adopted on the home labour body. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 6. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 13th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, to be resumed on Monday 6 February 2006 at 9 a.m. Thank you for being here.
