ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members! I begin the continuation of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Franz Capuder, mag. Milan M. Squeakle, Ljubo Germich, mag. Branko Grims, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, Miran Jerič, Aurelio Juri, Stane Pajk, Majda Širca, Jožef Školč, Davorin Terčon, Milenko Ziherl and Barbara Žgajner Tavš. We're moving to 14. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE AVENTIVE EXPOSURE 3. AND 5. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Member of the Law of Inventory. I would like to inform you that a total time of debate is set for 1 hour and 5 minutes. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted to the assembly by the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Presidents, representatives of the government! The objective of the proposed authentic interpretation was that the production of grapes and olives, as well as the production of wine and olive oil from their own crops, would be considered to be a basic agricultural activity taxed under the cadastral income system. After the then applicable Income Law, the production of wine and olive oil from own production was considered to be an activity income. We were convinced that this would have caused, or would have caused, in practice, in so far as this legal provision would have been applied in practice, irresistible administrative complications because the income from the production of grapes would have been paid by the cadastral and for the sale of wine they should have set up an economic society and paid the tax from the activity. The proposal for an authentic explanation was one of the attempts to resolve an unsustainable situation. We did not think it appropriate that a farmer producing wine from his own grapes should be placed in the same tax position as a trader buying grapes freely on the market and producing wine from it. The current legislation has thus equated the wine houses of centuries with economic activities without the tradition of agricultural spirit, generally established European standards and rules of origin of wine. The weakness of the legislation currently in force has also been in the fact that it has highlighted and increased the problem of the grey market, and it needs to be stressed that the collection and payment of taxes under the cadastral income system is established in virtually all European countries. During the time after the submission of the proposal for the adoption of the authentic interpretation of Article 3 and 5 of the second paragraph of Article 75 of the Income Act, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared and tabled a proposal for an income law which deals comprehensively with and solves this problem. The law was also adopted in the framework of the 13th point of the 16th regular meeting of the National Assembly, which is being concluded today. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we consider as one of the proponents that the updated and already adopted text of the legislative proposal of the Income Act is entirely sufficient for the purpose that we had as the proponents of the authentic interpretation, since it is fully and adequately addressing the same material. Thus, the law allows wine growers, who are also wine growers and olive growers, who are also oil growers, to establish the tax base also on the basis of cadastral income, but so as to enable farmers and planters, through increased cadastral income, to be taxed in an appropriate manner also on the added value of the processing of grapes or olive oil. In addition to winemakers and oil producers, this marriage proposal is also duly taxed by beekeepers. If you don't mind, I'd like to make a point on this authentic explanation. On the basis of the above and following the adoption of the amendment to the Income Act, we believe that there is no reason to adopt an authentic interpretation, so that we, as the applicants, will also declare this on behalf of the parliamentary group, support the proposal for a decision by the Finance Committee and monetary policy that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 57(2) and (5) of the Income Act is not adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! At its 17th meeting, on 11.2., the Committee also added a point of authentic interpretation of the law of Article 57(2) of the Income Act. Following the adoption by the National Assembly at its 14th meeting of the proposed decision of the Committee, which we have already adopted on 15.2., that there is no need for an authentic explanation. This then continued the procedure. In the context of this meeting of 11.4., the Committee has previously considered a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, which, with the additions adopted at the same time, largely solves the problem of taxpayers, farmers, winemakers or olive farmers in the proposal for an authentic interpretation. Therefore, the Committee was of the opinion that there was no longer a need for an authentic explanation. The applicants also agreed that the solutions introduced by the amendment of the Income Act sufficiently and properly address the problem of winemakers and farmers, as they introduce an additional third option to introduce a third option, in addition to income and 70% of material costs, of taxation by a multiple of cadastral income. Therefore, the Finance Committee adopted a decision proposed to the National Assembly not to adopt a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 57, paragraph 3, and Article 57, paragraph 5, of the Income Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you. I also give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the proposal. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The government has considered the proposal for an authentic explanation and has not objected to it. In view of the adoption of the amendment and the addition of the Income Act, which, in our view, has adequately addressed the issue of taxation of winemakers, oil producers and beekeepers, we do not consider that an authentic explanation is necessary or that there is no reason for an authentic explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Dr Mitja Slavinec will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. In the LDS, we estimate that the proposed authentic explanation is for the pure transfer of the coalition, because if it wanted to solve the problem of winemakers and oil producers, it could support the proposal for a law on income proposed by the opposition in order to solve this problem in the 2005 income, but was unfortunately rejected on the labour market. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also explained that the proposed authentic interpretation was contrary to the purpose and the reasons for the authentic interpretation, since the Institute is intended to resolve the uncertainty of the decisions. It is also disputed in this authentic interpretation that, although the mother's working body would adopt a decision on appropriateness for further consideration, they could not support it, as it is not permissible to accept an authentic interpretation which is retroactive and valid for a year and a half ago, as the legislative and legal service of the national assembly also pointed out. Due to the further consideration of the authentic interpretation given in the LDS, we will not support further consideration of the authentic interpretation because it is not meaningful and even less necessary. Again, we call on the government to relieve the production of pumpkin oil as well as the production of olive oil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u9	Thank you. Here comes a presentation of the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Ambassador Ferry Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mr Secretary of State. What we are doing now is actually a retrial for the government and for the government coalition. And that would not be necessary if, at the same meeting of the Finance Committee, we supported the proposal put forward by colleague Janko Weber, who is coming to the Chamber and together with other members of the Social Democracy. He was also supported by colleagues from the Liberal Democracy. Let us recall that this proposal was not adopted at the time that it was rejected, despite the fact that the legislative and legal service had written a very clear proposal for an authentic interpretation law in its opinion that such a way of dealing with this problem is legally non-systemic and inadequate. But she was just insisting on her own coalition. Our proposal for a law has been rejected and then we have come into the situation as we have experienced it and as we have it. We lost time, the question of retroactivity of the Income Act, which we supported and adopted. In addition, let me say that the solution that we and my colleague Webro proposed and supported was also more substantively favourable for winemakers and olive farmers than the solution we have adopted. Finally, given that the law has been passed, which I say we have also supported, it is becoming in fact this matter, which we are currently dealing with, is an authentic interpretation, so to speak, irrelevant and, of course, we support its rejection. However, I hope that this will be a lesson for both the government and the government coalition to act in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, Ambassador Josip Bajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u12	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. A distinguished representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Since the Members of the Slovenian People's Party, together with some other Members, sought a life-saving solution to the non-life regulation of the field of taxation of winemakers and olivers, as introduced by the 2004 Income Act, we have signed a mandatory interpretation of Article 57, paragraph 3, and Article 57, paragraph 5, of the Income Act. In view of the fact that in the process that this compulsory interpretation has already been adopted and applied to the labour force, the Government is preparing amendments and additions to Article 57, or to the Income Act, we have also advocated this solution, which is slightly wider than the compulsory interpretation of Article 57, since it also includes a solution to taxation or to life taxation of bees, and given that we have also settled matters for 2005, although some seem to have done so - this solution, which has also regulated the irregular situation for taxable persons on the basis of changes and the supplementation of the Income Act, when adopted last week, we will be Members of the Slovenian People's Party, irrespective of the fact that we have signed the compulsory interpretation, supported the position of the parent body, given that this mandatory interpretation has become irrelevant. At the time of her adoption at the national assembly, however, she was still quite the subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u13	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Ambassador Srečko Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u14	Dear Vice President. Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues. This is the same content as the Income Law suggests, so we also consider that the text submitted for authentic interpretation is no longer appropriate and necessary for further discussion, consideration and confirmation. At the same time, we would also like to draw attention to the essentially unregulated issue in agriculture as well as in the area of essentially taxes, because we know that subsidies for last year have not been paid, this year will be for last year and this year. The question is how farmers will be taxed and what level of income they will have to pay. In fact, the issue of the whole agricultural area is also open, as we know that the problem is not only in the olive industry and the wine industry, that this industry is the most in decline and that this is a pan-European problem, and therefore it would be desirable for the agricultural ministry to become more involved in obtaining more resources from the so-called quotas of the European Union and, more urgently, in paying these subsidies, because we know that subsidies are both late for farmers, olive farmers, poultry farmers and in general for the whole agricultural area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Yelen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are of the opinion that it is not worth supporting the authentic interpretation of the third and fifth paragraphs of Article 57 of the Income Act. We consider such an explanation to be poor and inappropriate because it expresses national interest, as well as the visibility of wine-growing and oil-growing in Slovenia. We believe that this is a poor way of maintaining the system of taxation of oil and wine processing income, a way that was already in place before 2005. Authenticity is no longer necessary. This legislation will also follow the general principles of income taxation in the field of agricultural income taxation, particularly for farmers, towards equal treatment for those in a similar economic situation and a more comprehensive coverage of all tax revenues, thus allowing for less proportionate tax burdens. According to such baselines, agricultural activity will be divided into basic agricultural activity and forestry activity, for which the tax base is already established in the income itself. We propose that all activities be treated under the same conditions as this is most meaningful and even in the direction of obtaining natural goods. In this way, all rules will be provided when income is determined. In this way, income can be determined on the basis of all average revenues as well as costs for each culture, which will be an indicator of the actual use of land and of the cadastral class in which any individual natural value can be reflected. We will not support the proposed law because it is already defined in the draft Income Act, starting on Tuesday, 25.4.2006, which regulates this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u17	Thank you. Comrade Franz Sušnik, if I understand you correctly, the position of the SDS Group has already been presented in the proposal. Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation. I give my word to Mr. Jank Webra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. The authentic interpretation of Article 57, paragraph 3, and Article 57, paragraph 5, of the Income Act is entirely unnecessary today at a meeting of the National Assembly. Indeed, we need to know that the mother's working body has already made a decision a while ago that it is not a suitable basis for further consideration, as the authentic interpretation, as it has been transmitted, exceeds its purpose by content, as it amends the legal text. And it was somehow incomprehensible to us that when we discussed in the National Assembly the solutions that were presented with the law that I had tabled with my colleagues, the law was rejected and the authentic interpretation was given support in the National Assembly, and that is why today this item on the agenda is here. I am pleased that, in fact, the government has come with its solutions and filled this void, or that the lack of alignment, in fact, with our rules of procedure and the constitution, when the authentic interpretation of its content has gone beyond its purpose and has solved the problem that has somehow been expected by olivers and winemakers. Unfortunately, I must point out once again that our initial marriage proposal was significantly more favourable than what we adopted last time, because it was only tax based on cadastral income, regardless of whether then you have an additional complementary activity as a winemaker and whether you have an olive grove and so on. The new law has further taxed, i.e. increased the cadastral income for those who still have bottles of wine and bottles of oil, thereby moving away from our proposal, especially in the sense that olivers and winemakers are more burdened than would otherwise be necessary because of their exceptional influence on the quality of wine growing and on the development of olive oil itself. Of course, I will be against the authentic explanation, such as the one put forward, with the remark that we missed the opportunity to adopt a more friendly law for winemakers and olive farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u19	Thank you. I give my word to a Member of the Happy Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Income Act leaves open questions even if we have accepted it and if it is more favourable than the previous one. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 57, paragraph 2, of the Income Law is not really necessary. It is true, however, that it is incomprehensible that the government is essentially taxing areas that are in recession. And if we are talking about agriculture, in my profound belief, agriculture should not be taxed in the sector, not in Slovenia at all. I am sure that all citizens should be happy if someone can obtain their own existence by working on some area, which we know is not even a little within the framework of European processing areas, agriculture, that our land configuration is the same as it is, whether it is an agricultural sector in the field of winemaking, olivery or, in fact, poultry or cattle farming. In short, it is incomprehensible to introduce taxes where the state does not even offer a sufficient level of aid and could also contribute more by European means to the development of this area. To boast that we have arranged a model of this area, because we have included beekeepers - of course we have included them, we have given them an additional commitment, and we have given the winemakers an additional commitment. I say that essentially this is an additional burden for families involved in this activity, an agricultural activity at all. And the fact is that the government could find other regulations here in this area and otherwise help those people who are still willing to insist on and process Slovenian land and thus survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Anton Anderlich. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u22	It does not take much effort for a person to realize that in dealing with this issue, confusion or a deliberate policy has led the whole thing into confusion. And if I take as a starting point only someone who referred on behalf of the parliamentary group who said that the explanation was completely inappropriate and later developed that it was unnecessary, it is signed on this mandatory explanation. Who doesn't know that more than half a year ago, the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture vehemently refused any intervention in the field of taxation of winemakers and olive farmers. Who doesn't know that the damage was done by the fact that those who received a different status in the marriage last week had a different status to pay their income and gave it away and that they will now have an additional job and that they will have a tax administration and all those who will have to deal with all these tax returns again. And speaking here today, how this is all well arranged now and how the coalition has arranged it, because it has listened after a year and a half to these desires and suggestions to winemakers and oil producers, is hypocritical. There's something that's unheard of for people who are seriously doing their job. But obviously that's what you have to say. Because it is impossible to agree to this logic, to first push people into impossible situations, I also agree with those who say why a multiple in the cadastral income for some categories. I don't know what time will tell you. Maybe next year you'll come up with a different solution when you find out this isn't a good one. I, of course, when we talk about this mandatory explanation, agree with what the committee has proposed, but this committee has received, in this same assembly of the same Members who were on the committee, an earring and a return card back to the committee and then found a "it god" miraculous formula that we will retroactively, even though this retroactivity in the way that the law applies to this matter, I have also upheld the law. It is a pity that, on the one hand, this does not indicate that a way of thinking and making decisions would change. So in order to listen to problems, arguments, and try to solve these things without delay, the consequences must arise, in fact, I do not know what in Slovenia, 15 or how many thousand signatures of family farms were transmitted to the Ministry of Agriculture in the autumn of last year, but nothing happened. Post-festivities, when tax returns or income forecasts were already made, but since that would mean, I don't know what, I think even the burial of some family farms, had to be done. And here, the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture of the National Assembly is not about honor and glory, but about some sort of grace. Since he didn't show up here today, he probably has a bad conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u23	Thank you. Given that the time has passed for the Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, I give the floor to the Member of the Slovenian National Party to Boštjan Zagorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. 1.1.2005 came into force the Income Act, which turned out to be extremely unfriendly, in particular to wine growers and olive farmers. That is to say those who, I will say, produce from their grapes and from their olives a certain product, which, after all, we have so much as everyone loves each other. I must say that I do not care which government has put this law into practice and under the tactics of which governments this law has entered into force. More interesting is the fact that in the Slovenian National Party we have been alerted to the problem that this law has brought to vineyards and olive farmers since the entry into force of this law, but under tactics, I can say that these governments have not been completely, completely nothing, except empty promises that this matter will somehow be settled. We've taken almost two years to make this thing, I'll say, at least partially arranged as the winemakers and olive farmers wanted it, and just as it was right. So there's no double taxation for these people. In the debate on the income law that we had last week, one of the Members asked about retroactivity, then, distinguished gentlemen, in particular from the government coalition, you were all looking a little "slowly", what is retroactivity, what does this have to do with retroactivity. Retroactivity in this case was so important because it was important to people, I will tell the winemakers and olivers in the Primorska area all the time that they should report a tax return that they were guilty, because it was retroactivity, respected gentlemen, important - are they at the time of the implementation of this law in violation or are they not? Retroactivity means back and some, including the Minister of Finance, have, in response to my question, proved and said that they were at fault. When I asked myself how winemakers and olive farmers should pass their tax returns at a time when the law proposed by the previous government was enacted, I have to tell you that in 40% of tax offices, even in larger cities, such as Koper, they had no idea how to charge these people's income. All they could tell me was that they didn't have the right regulations to do it. Another issue that needs to be highlighted here today is that it was very interesting when we first considered the authentic explanation, that the one who proposes an authentic reason opposes this authentic explanation, no matter how bad or how good this authentic explanation is. This is one of the 'uniques' appearing in this House. Usually people in this House propose anything, no matter how good or bad it is for this country, but they are behind it to the end. You, gentlemen of the government coalition, have been opposed to this from the very beginning. I think that the cheap collection of political points was that you proposed this authentic explanation at all for the admission of this national assembly. The first time we discussed this, we said in the Slovenian National Party that we would not support such authentic explanations and the same is true today - regardless of whether this is your wish. But, interestingly, you proposed some authentic explanation, I believe, given that you are in the government and have access to a source of information, that you already knew that a change of the Income Act would be adopted last week; but, do you not think it would be more correct that when Member Weber proposed a law that would have already regulated it, this law would have simply supported it, perhaps then proposed amendments, but not that you arrived at that time with an authentic explanation, which you had already opposed. A very frivolous game and a very clear one, I'll say, a move by government Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you that the users of this law have also very, very overlooked you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you. In the context of the discussion on the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation - colleague Bajc, please allow me to lead the meeting, thank you - the government has also applied. I'm asking the Secretary of State if he wants a word. Okay, I get that as a no. Given that we have had 1 hour and 5 minutes of debate reported under this item and that we have 32 minutes left, I am asking on the basis of Rule 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure if anyone else wants to discuss it. Please raise your hands! My friend Bajc. Anyone else? No one else. Comrade Bajc, colleague of Zagorac in five minutes. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to take the floor, regardless of the fact that, when presenting the Slovenian People's Party's position, I said that we would not support it, but that we accepted it at the time, and I would remind both colleagues from the Slovenian National Party to read what we are dealing with today and when the law was passed, which we, as I have already said in the consideration of the amendments and the addition of the Income Act, have said for the fourth time, is that we are correcting a very bad law in 2004 and not the law in 2006. And finally, what I would like to say is, my friend - I think the last debater who mentioned it said that we were against a mandatory explanation. That's not true! At that time, when we adopted a mandatory interpretation of the law that we adopted on Tuesday, it was not yet in the procedure, but the government subsequently came to it with a better solution than it was from the very mandatory interpretation of Article 57. Indeed, here, colleague Anderlič said that the chairman of the committee almost to the last, except for the law itself amending and supplementing the law on income, objected to a solution such as was adopted in the Income Act itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u27	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Zagorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u28	Thanks again for saying that. A few words from my predecessor interrupted the border, especially the word about the reserve, which was somehow the second or third word of my forerunner. The reserve, what was the authentic explanation? Probably a reservation to Vebro's law, which is the classic of this government, that if the opposition MP proposes a law that would be good, he will find a reserve and in this case there was an authentic explanation. You know what the course of that session was like. At first we rejected the marriage of colleague Weber, and then we rejected the authentic explanation, because at this point it was simply not necessary anymore. When was the law on income adopted? Look, if that means a lot to you, I'll tell you that he was adopted in his previous term as LDS rule. I have already said that the law has been very unloving, both to winemakers and olive farmers, and if that means a lot to you, it is the LDS who has given such a law on income, but it must also be said that this government has spent two years to correct this nonsense that this law has introduced. And, my fellow predecessor, let me tell you this, let me provide from your professional services, as part of the Slovenian People's Party has voted on the Income Law. Only then do you talk about whether the marriage was bad or perhaps good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you. And the last discusser, my friend Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u30	All I want to say to my colleague Bajc is that next time he should listen a little more carefully, who said something, that he could refer the replicas to anyone. It was a very bad marriage before, this marriage is a little better than what it used to be, but it's still bad for farmers. And if you are already the editors and holders of the agricultural field and you are defending this middle of yours, not only you, but also any other party in this, then at least in this House write out some kinder law for farmers, because neither you nor your farmers are applauding us today. So that you will know that basically what you did on the correctional exam and we accepted, everyone else, with a large majority or no one opposed, is just an emergency exit, but it is still a bad situation for Slovenian agriculture. And to talk about who did something and fasten your titles, you pushed even more Slovenian farmer into the mud than you did yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you. I also conclude the debate with this. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for the adoption of the compulsory interpretation is inappropriate and not accepted, we will decide, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th agenda or at the latest at 19 and 25 minutes. To the representative of the government, I thank the Secretary of State. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - First draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Volunteering in the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that a total of 4 hours and 20 minutes have been scheduled for this debate. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members with the first signed Merrani Potrče requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill. Minister Gregor Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Until the regular parliamentary elections, we are separated for two or more years or almost two and a half years, and the question is probably why the amendments and amendments to the electoral law to the National Assembly are already being raised. There are two reasons. The first reason is that this requires a few decisions by the Constitutional Court, so the law is in line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Secondly, because it is better that electoral legislation be adopted in due course before the elections and that this sensitive political issue is not discussed in the electoral year. The changes and additions that are before you are not radical, but they are not insignificant. The electoral system remains the same in its essential elements and remains unchanged. There is no secret that ambitions, including my ambitions at first, have been greater in terms of amending electoral legislation. It is no secret that I have advocated the abolition of electoral thefts and the introduction of a preferential vote, i.e. for a similar system as had already been proposed in the previous term of the National Assembly and was burned in the National Assembly or not voted by the required majority as required by the Constitution. We have also quickly found in this mandate that there is no support in the coalition for a change in the electoral system, and we have therefore approached those changes in the electoral legislation which have this support and which also have the possibility of having the required majority voted in the national assembly. What changes do the novel bring? It brings the following sets of amendments: firstly, the introduction of so-called quotas to ensure greater participation of women in political life or specifically in elections to the National Assembly; secondly, the electorate more favourably in the exercise of electoral rights; thirdly, the rationalisation of electoral procedures; fourthly, the alignment with the decisions of the Constitutional Court; fifthly, the technical passage of the constitutional law in the addition of article 80 of the Constitution to the electoral law in the National Assembly. If I go in line, first a few words about those points that speak about the electorate's more friendly exercise of electoral rights. The law facilitates the granting of support to candidates. The law makes it possible to inform voters differently about candidate lists, including brochures that would be distributed into each Slovenian household; it allows or requires special voters for disabled persons and special voters for those who would like to vote outside the place or district of their permanent residence. Thus, the law will allow anyone who wishes to vote in another province on the day of the vote, as declared by his permanent residence, to do so, on previous notice, if so declared three days before the day of the vote. Major simplifications are also given to the vote from abroad, a vote on the so-called blank ballot allowing the timely dispatch of electoral material, such as in the overseas country, does not need to be certified on the electoral card when the ballot is sent back to the country and the vote is due until 8 p.m. after the vote. Rationalization. The law contains more rational solutions for the financing of elections and thus facilitates the work of electoral bodies. After that, it removes the monopoly of the Official Journal on the printing of electoral material and provides that the contractor is to be selected by procedure, as is the case with public procurement, so to speak through a public invitation to tender. Then, it increases the number of signatures required for the submission of candidate papers that are not supported by political parties, raising the threshold from 100 to 1000, which is still relative to 4% of the electoral threshold, i.e. a minimum number. The law provides for election boxes made of solid material, which means that they can be obtained once and for all and will be used in each election and so on. The law provides for a greater role for political parties in the composition of electoral commissions and committees. It foresees transparent ballot boxes and sealing electoral material after an early vote. As regards compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, it is appropriate to mention compliance with the decision on electoral rights for those citizens who have been deprived of their business ability. So far, the law has provided for the automatic exclusion of electoral rights for all those deprived of their business ability, now in any specific case, when an unfair court decides on the confiscation of business capacity, whether a citizen is a citizen, according to his or her mental and physical abilities, i.e. the one on whom they decide on the deprivation of business ability, whether he or she is able to form a will and in elections and whether he or she needs to be deprived of electoral rights or not. In each case, it will be decided whether or not to withdraw the right to vote. Then, as it is said, it is the passing of the constitutional law into the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, it is Dropp's coefficient, the 4% electoral threshold, the abolition of national papers, that is to say, things that have already been done in practice under constitutional law, and we are now just transferring them into the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. And the Republican Election Commission is renamed the State Election Commission. And a few more words about the topic likely to receive the most intense debate today, this is the introduction of so-called quotas to ensure greater participation of women in political life. A quota of 35% is proposed on the list and in the transitional provision for the first next state-level elections of 25%. Relatively small participation of women in elections in the National Assembly, in the National Assembly itself and in political life at all, despite formally equal opportunities, is a serious problem of Slovenian politics. That's what the data shows. If we look at the figures for the 2004 elections, we find that we had an average of 24.87% of the candidates on the candidate lists, and that only 12.22% of the candidates were elected from all Members and Members. These percentages vary from party to party, but the data show that the highest percentage of women on the candidate lists was 31.03%, and the highest percentage achieved by each party was 22.22%. Measures are therefore necessary to ensure greater participation of women in political life. They have already been introduced into the law governing elections to the European Parliament, they have been introduced into the law governing local elections, and it is therefore logical to introduce them into the law governing elections to the National Assembly. These measures are needed not only to equalise actual opportunities, but also to ensure higher quality in policy. I am convinced that there would be more wisdom, more prudence, more sober thinking if there were more women in politics. Well, quotas can help, but they're not a magic wand that could solve this problem overnight. The introduction of quotas is too small. This mechanism constitutes an adjustment of one factor in the behaviour of political parties in the selection of candidates and candidates. And this problem, let's say the traditionalist attitude of political parties towards women's participation in politics is certainly one of the problems, but it's not the only one. Women's participation in politics would be very beneficially affected by an increase in the general image of politics - for this we can do the most to the politicians ourselves - and by changing the stereotype of politics as a male sector. The quotas are therefore not a miracle cure. It must also be said, and we must not forget that "enteris paribus" can do so, under unaltered other circumstances, also have negative effects. By establishing quotas, it may be possible that sex replaces other criteria for determining candidates as a criterion. So that there is no misunderstanding, let me explain the case; in the event that 10 women and 1 man or 10 men and 1 woman compete for a candidate place, it is probably not right if sex becomes a decisive criterion instead of the other qualities that are important to the candidates. So much respect for the intro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ambassador Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I suppose the law on amendments and additions to the electoral law to the national assembly is such an act that it is right to hold a general debate in the national assembly, because if anything, then the electoral system, when we speak of it, raises some new or old questions and requires us to think carefully about it, because it is already a matter of the role of the parties, the role of the policy in general of the national assembly, really a lot of impreciseness, in my opinion also a lot of unilateral opinions. It is our very fault that there are many unobjective opinions and unnecessary criticisms in public about politics and the National Assembly. That is why it seems right for us to speak in peace also about the electoral system that the government is proposing for us this time to change and complement, and to be objective and critical about what is being done. Surely the electoral system is always a reflection of some political situation in society, some of the wishes and aspirations of political parties, of real power relations, and also has an impact on how politics is shaped. To say that the electoral system has no bearing on this would be unobjective, because we certainly know that the majority on the one hand and proportional on the other, as the most harsh division in the world of known electoral systems, have different effects. Most can, simplified, for whom it is more effective in the direction of implementation, but no doubt gives preference to large parties and causes bipolarity in politics, in development, if not at some point. While the proportional electoral system allows different views in politics to be reflected in the national assembly, it also entails a little more involvement in the formation of governments, which, as a rule, need to be coalition, and requires a little more coordination of content and decisions. It is to be assumed, however, that the content and decisions taken by coalition governments would be closer to the views of a wider circle of citizens and citizens than in the majority electoral system, where, as we know, a good third of the votes cast can guarantee an absolute majority and the full rule of one party. The same applies to many other foundations of the electoral system - how much more or less to ensure, in addition to the role played by the parties in the electoral system, the role they should have in the electoral system, in addition to, of course, the democratic direct free elections, which is expressed through the voting vote cast by citizens, citizens or the creation of electoral papers or the direct impact on the election. Therefore, the question is whether the creation of ballots should be just a matter for the parties or also for citizens and citizens. We also have citizens' lists, although the real possibility of electing candidates on citizens' lists is relatively small as regards elections to the National Assembly. However, there were ideas in mind, and the Minister also mentioned them in his introduction, whether the changes in the electoral system would have shown a greater role in giving the preferred votes and the chances of voters and voters from a certain group of candidates, in addition to voting for the list, to select the individual from that list who would give him the upper hand. Such ideas have been quite present in the past term in the National Assembly, especially with the leading parties in the coalition, but they have not received support in the National Assembly, nor have they received unified support within individual political parties. In our parliamentary group, we expected this idea to be at least part of the debate on the changes in the electoral system currently under consideration, and we would be prepared to follow such a direction, but the Minister explained to us at the interview in the parliamentary group that despite his efforts to do so there is no willingness within the four coalition parties who would not be willing to support such orientations. When asked explicitly whether it makes sense to ask this question as an opposition party, he told us quite frankly that, of course, we have such an opportunity and the right to agree, in the coalition, that even as amendments, they will support those proposals that will have majority support within all four coalition parties, which means you can, in other words, propose, but very little or no likelihood, that the debate on the abolition of constituencies on the fact that we have a single list with the most, in this case, 11 candidates and the possibility of preferential votes in this national assembly will receive the necessary support. I would like to know whether any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups or individual Members may speak about this possibility, since it would be possible at first reading to assess whether this is an up-to-date consideration during these amendments to electoral legislation or not. And if this thought is not up to date, then there is even less reflection on the majority electoral system, which, if not others, would require an immediate two-thirds change of the relevant constitutional articles, because we have written in the Constitution a proportional electoral system as a principle under which we love the national assembly. While we agree in the Group that some useful changes and additions to the law are included, that solutions relating to the fulfilment of obligations to the Constitutional Court and to the new provisions in the Constitution are included, and that we also have a fundamental issue on which we are not satisfied, although some progress has been made since the draft, the issue of equality between the two genders in the system of candidateing for elections to the National Assembly. We do not claim to be worthy, but we want to say that, on the basis of the first interview, this point, perhaps also due to our suggestions and warnings, to certain positive changes, and that the original proposal with which the government coalition went into transitional coordination, this time also had the opposition parties as a maximum of 30% participation in the lists, now it is 35, and unfortunately only in 2012, since in 2008 it was originally 20, now it has increased to 25%. We, in the Socialist Group of Members, are not satisfied with such a solution, although it means progress in the light of the current regulation that gender equality has not been regulated in the context of candidateing at all. However, we do not know where the particular reasons are for us to behave so differently by the national assembly and political parties when it comes to regulating the electoral system for local communities, for the European Parliament and for the national elections. Is the reason why national constituencies seem so much more important to us and therefore we need to reduce the percentage of possible equal representation, which in practice means reducing the proportion of women's representation on candidate lists, because one is the principle, the other is the practice. For local elections, we have foreseen this option in 40 per cent, unfortunately only in 2014, two mandates are not yet in place. In the meantime, in the European Parliament elections, we have already foreseen that the quota for each of the two genders is at least 40%, and we have foreseen even the percentage of representation in the individual, top-of-the-line sheets between men and women, so that we have made the greatest approximation here for acceptable solutions. Now that this approximate could also be followed in regulating the electoral system in the National Assembly, the ruling coalition has not been prepared or has not been able to do so in view of the mental outlook. In view of the progress that the law makes, we will generally support the marriage. However, we predict that we will table an amendment, especially with regard to gender equality in the proportion of candidates, and we expect discussion and support to such guidelines, as far as this part will succeed in our efforts, will also depend on what we will then do in the second and third readings on the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you. I invite Member Anton Kokalja to present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u36	Good-bye, everybody! The amendment of the law is conditional on decisions of the Constitutional Court concerning the voting of electoral beneficiaries who are abroad on the day of the vote, and on the conditions for electoral law relating to business capacity, and on the exercise of the electoral right of voters who cannot personally support the list of candidates - disabled persons, prisoners and patients. The amendment also means aligning with the 80th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which raises the threshold to 4% throughout the country. Under the constitutional law, the number of Dropps is enacted, several mandates are already distributed in the electoral units for the lists submitted in two or more constituencies, and national lists are abolished in accordance with the constitutional law. The first set of changes is necessary due to changes in the system that have occurred in the past and require a change in the law that is already late. The bill foresees solutions that promote more equal sexual representation on candidate lists. Here I must point out that we welcome some kind of compulsion, which we think is appropriate, 25% at this point, of course there are sometimes public explanations, if this is too little. It must be said that the law of the upper limit does not impose. It would be interesting if one of the political parties used this 25% in a different sexual relationship than we used to think. That's also possible, only a quarter of the men on the lists. The bill eliminates some shortcomings in the work of the electoral authorities, the financing of elections, facilitates the voting by post, in particular from abroad, and removes the validation of electoral cards, which we think is a very important change. The proposal of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who do not have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia and are registered in the electoral directory makes it possible to decide whether they will vote by post or by diplomatic and consular representation of the Republic of Slovenia, which we also think is a very important change. An official blank voice is introduced, which the electorate fills in and returns by mail. According to our assessment, this is finally the first step towards the proper treatment of voters who do not live in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal also contains the possibility of giving support to candidate lists before each competent authority, irrespective of their place of residence. Some solutions have also been proposed, as already explained by Mr Minister, which allow for greater transparency of elections and reduce the possibility of abuses on voters, such as ballot boxes, the introduction of voter signatures on the electoral directory, greater emphasis on political party proposals in the composition of the electoral bodies and the provision of their plural composition. The proposal provides that at least one electorate must be available to disabled persons in the constituency area. The Electoral Commission may, however, allow for a vote by special votes and voting machines. The Republic Election Commission shall be renamed the State Election Commission. In view of these changes in the New Slovenia Group of Members, we believe that the amendment of the Law on Elections in the National Assembly is appropriate and we support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be presented by Mr Jakob Presečnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The law governing elections to the National Assembly is an important law, as it provides for transparency of elections and further regulates the allocation of mandates between candidates or candidates to the National Assembly. The bill that we are considering today is necessary for a number of reasons. The law itself does not make major substantive changes, as its adoption is necessary in particular because of the constitutional law of 2000, which was supplemented by Article 80 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, the proposed law aligns itself with the decisions of the Constitutional Court and corrects some other shortcomings. In our view, the most important novelty of the proposed law is, in addition to measures to make it more accessible, easier and easier for the electorate to exercise active electoral rights, in particular, the proposed provision to increase women's participation in public life. As an important acquisition in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also assess measures to facilitate the exercise of electoral law. So welcome is the solution for a special voter in every constituency for voters who do not have a permanent residence in that constituency, and the adjusted voter for the disabled in each constituency. The voter's transparency is believed to be facilitated by the introduction of a transparent ballot box and the voter's signature in the electoral directory. Above all, the latter measure will certainly prevent or make possible the possible abuse of the electorate, while at the same time increasing voter confidence in the fairness of the elections. The proposal for a law aimed at maximising the representation of both sexes in the National Assembly proposes a solution whereby no sex should be represented with less than 35% on each candidate list. In doing so, the bill provides for a transitional period for the first subsequent elections, for which this limit is set at 25%. We support the proposed solution of Members of the Slovenian People's Party. At the same time, we would like to stress that such legislation for gender equality is seen as an extreme asset. Unfortunately, in recent years such a way of ensuring gender equality has proved to be the only one that is also effective. Nevertheless, I expect, I hope that, justifiably, within a few years or perhaps a decade, the equal representation of both sexes in public life will become reasonable in itself and that such provisions will no longer have to be adopted. Ensuring gender equality and other equality is primarily the task and responsibility of political parties when they form candidate lists. In addition to gender equality, we will probably have to allocate a certain percentage of cities to younger candidates, as Slovenia has seen a particular problem of gerontocracy, the predominance of older people in recent times. All the key decisions in the majority are made by the ever-older people, and this is probably not the most encouraging for innovative and bolder future-oriented ideas. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Minister with his associates! In the Slovenian National Party, we have already examined the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on elections to the National Assembly for the reasons stated, in detail in all its articles and found the following. Firstly, the fact that this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections to the National Assembly is necessary is necessary, necessary, legally binding in order to bring the law into line with article 80 of the Constitution and the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Another time. In the Slovenian National Party, we have assessed that this bill is important because in it, at least in this law, we pay more attention to voters and voters than to ourselves, according to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party. Since we are always the most important, this time we allow some technical and other changes to start with the disabled and allow the disabled to go to the voters, etc., to turn around, to pay attention to the voters and to give them the opportunity to be the most active and active participants in the elections. Many words have been said about the objectives and purpose of this law, so allow me to focus on some of the elements that we have examined on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. In the Slovenian National Party, we warmly welcome, first of all, among the main solutions, the possibility that the electorate can give support to the candidate lists before each competent authority regardless of the place of his or her permanent residence. I think that this is one important solution that is to be commended and, of course, also needs to be confirmed. In fact, we have been among the initiators in the Slovenian National Party, and we particularly support the fact that the voter's signature in the electoral directory is needed to sign the voter in the electoral directory and not to confirm the electoral card. This is a very important element, which will prove to be in the first future elections. We are confident in the Slovenian National Party and will also insist that it will be introduced, but now I stress that the transparent ballot box introduced is not transparent, but there is a significant difference between them. You can't see the contents in the transparent, but you can see the exact name, last name, line, comma, dot. You can see everything in the window. We insist that it is a transparent box, not a transparent box. In the Slovenian National Party, however, we have stopped at some of the questions that I expect from the distinguished Minister who is with us today, if not because we are at first reading, in the future. The content of the law defines that the current Secretary of the Electoral Commission, the Republic, becomes the Director of the State Election Commission Service with a five-year term, and from here on, the issue arises. Unvulnerable reasons for the discharge of the Director of the State Election Commission within one year of the end of the term of office. I read on purpose "inviolable reasons to be relieved." A very important question: What does that mean? I hope we hear the answer. What does that mean? Actually, people are used to thinking, not about the best, but about the worst. Does this mean that the abuse of the ruling parties can, hypothetically, be introduced? I'm not talking now, who's who, hypothetically. What does that mean, "inviolable reasons" for the discharge of the Director of the State Election Commission. The Slovenian national party has also given great importance to Article 11 when it refers to the list of candidates in the individual electoral unit designated by the new 1,000 voters, no more than 100. According to the Slovenian National Party, this is a good decision, a "fair" decision and a fair decision. And regardless of our political color, we must insist on this solution. Once again, we are asked a question, namely, Article 14 of the draft law, which states that paragraph 53a is deleted. A very questionable decision, at least in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party. 53.a. Article 53a states: The name of the list of candidates shall not contain the name of a foreign country or of a foreign party, their symbols and the abbreviations they use. We, in the Slovenian National Party, do not have these problems and we will not have them. However, we are interested in the reason why this article should be abolished. If I listen to my respected colleagues and colleagues from the previous term, I am talking about the mandates where I was with them, many times the name was used, even at the time of entry into the EU, that certain political options, political parties in the country of the Republic of Slovenia in this Parliament were equal to the names of political parties on the European scale. Now I am very hypothetically stressing that it is not personal; I do not know if there are many parties in Europe called Social Democrats, which means that Social Democrats, hypothetically, should not use this name. The Slovenian Democratic Party has been smart and has changed its name to the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is difficult to expect in 24 EU countries to be such, but this is the case. However, if we were still the Social Democratic Party, this article, which we are deleting now, would mean that we should be renamed. They don't know why. Last but not least, they can be liberal Democrats, they can be social Democrats, but we know that we live in the country of the Republic of Slovenia, and if anyone forgets that, of course, it is his problem, but now it is not the law that we will solve this problem by deleting one article. Last but not least, if you don't mind, I'm going to stop at the 10th Article of the draft law at first reading, which is about the quota. First, I will give the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, and if you allow a larger share, 51% of my personal opinion on this. All the time, I've been monitoring the events and so-called, I don't want to hear them, women's quotas, for six years. By trying to equalize a citizen or citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, by which we absolutely agree in the Slovenian National Party, we are doing the opposite. We want to put out an ugly expression - a woman's quota, which is what it is. Women are women. Men are men. We're all men. We want to compare, and on the other hand, we highlight some percentages and highlight some women's quotas, so we are essentially counterproductive, thus stressing some differences that, of course, we want to equalize to people, we are liberal, we are democratic, we want to equal women to men, but we always stress a woman's quota, a woman's quota. I think that the important problem is that we can't look pretty on the outside, and on the inside, we point out publicly that there is a difference. She's gone. That's not the difference. And in the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that Article 10, on the transitional provision I will address a little later, will not be so easy to implement, ladies and gentlemen. Because Article 10 is very clear and speaks in its second paragraph. I won't talk about women anymore, but I can talk about men's quotas if you want. He says: "No sex shall be represented on the candidate list with less than 35 per cent of the total actual number of candidates and candidates on the list." This is the goal that we have been following, the goal that we are democratic, open in this society, and once again say sex - not women, not men, it can be the other way around. On the other hand, in this proposal, we have a transitional provision in the first reading, and this is Article 34, which states that no sex of less than 25 per cent may be represented in future State elections, regardless of paragraphs 10 and 11. Let's face it, let's be honest, let's be honest. Why write a certain percentage in article 10 of the law, which is not hypothetical, which is not infinite in one or the other direction, is not up to 35, but 35, and on the other hand we have a transitional provision that reduces this proposal. Colleagues and colleagues, whether fair or not, regardless of political colours, let us acknowledge that this is a bit of a two-faced one. You know, it's not like they're gonna buy me a ticket and write me a ticket to a lot, where the rules are very clear, if you have all seven numbers, you hit, if there's two, they share a profit. The profit is 50 million, 50 million is yours. And how we would now view it to be written in the transitional decisions, and in the transitional decisions, half of the amount that you received on the lot is certainly yours, and so is the rest. It's not working. Sorry, it's not working. I am in favour of allowing gender equality, colleagues and colleagues, we have entered Europe. Europe is demanding a new political and, above all, an economic flow. We have decided in the economic process, this is very much related to our doing and doing as Europe does. It means the worker between 9:00 and 6:00 p.m., between lunch hours, etc. I speak for the economic field and it is right to stick to it, because the only job is to create some income and create the well-being of the nation. But we forgot something about it, at least at the beginning, when we wanted to imitate Europe, when we wanted to get into this stream, kindergartens, education and protection institutions were open from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. or no later than 4 p.m. Meaning, father and mother work from nine to six, seven evenings, and the little children they have are in kindergarten to four. Someone's got to protect them. We have not taken care of parallel protection to enable smooth and safe work, carefree work for people on the one hand, and carefree parenting and child protection. I wonder whether, in the past and today, the competent ministries, the first - the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the second - the Ministry of Education and Sport, the third - the Ministry of Economic Affairs, created the conditions, I stress, created the conditions for today, this time I will make an exception for the mother to enter into political life without care, to leave the child to someone who is carefree, that this child has protection, that the family is protected, that they have their own home. I assess and the Slovenian National Party estimates that this is not the case. It is beautiful and fair that we are equal and equal. The question is, who will then care for the further development of the family that we have behind us, our sons and daughters, from two years to, finally, we are also missing, even up to fifteen, sixteen years old, to know where they are, what they are doing and where they are going? When we have these conditions guaranteed, this is the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, then it is fair, fair, that everyone who has the will, the desire, the desire to improve a situation, enter into a concrete policy based on this law. That's a fact. Forcing someone only to be included in a list in a national election to be provided with a percentage in Article 10 does not seem fair to me, nor does it seem fair to some who, I say hypothetically, may be forced to do so by men, why not, even men may be forced or forced to do so. No coercion brought any good. Here I stress that, while it is right that the transitional provision will endorses what the article does and is therefore written. I think I am right, and therefore the transitional decision is written in such a way that in the next period, this is 2008, we are already reducing the agreed percentage in Article 10, which is 35. It means we've admitted that we're not mature. I am not a lawyer, gentlemen will correct me, but someone could say that this law is not harmonised, it is not in accordance with a transitional decision, because, according to my opinion, if a single article is specified precisely by less than that, but with less than 35 ladies in a transitional decision, but at the next one it can be 25, tell me the meaning of this. If we write 35, we stick to 35, we respect the law and make the conditions. If we are not sure, then we should either release this article or put one in the article - that is what gentlemen of mathematics will say more experienced Members - a solution that is consistent. Because, according to my judgment, the solution is to determine the exact percentage of the law, but with a transitional provision to challenge something, for me, I can be a great layman, not consistent, not fair, our purpose is not fair. If we say 35, we stick to 35, we don't make conditions, now 25 do, and the difference doesn't. Why don't we put it in Article 25? I'm talking to the sex. It can happen that 75% of women, thank God, in the Slovenian National Party we have no problems with this, there are more women, we prefer, because we also recognize that they support three corners of the house, it can happen the other way around. But let us be consistent and have some provision in the article of the law, because this law is not only written for six months, or we will talk about it again, and we will abolish the transitional provisions, as far as I have been able to read it, does not mean that this can be done, even if it is written for future elections, but for future elections it does not say which years. And I can, for example, if I am a Member in the next term, say the same thing, it is in the future decision and we are going forward in 2012 on this policy. This is a well-meaning comment by the Slovenian National Party. Let us be consistent, set in the law a percentage of gender equality, because of me, 50, just not 52, because then as Milosevic we will have a 104% victory, and that is not. Let us define and adhere to the articles of the law or form an article of the law in such a way that it is very clear. Of course, no one can, no woman can forbid a man and no man a woman, but we are so democratic in this Slovenia that we go to elections, we can't. Anyone can go to elections, everyone can be chosen, and of course everyone can do their job, whether it says 35 or not. However, I agree that it is right that we are not, after all, just, sometimes too smart, men in this national assembly. But not coerced, and if we are already setting a percentage, let us be concrete, correct, and let us say that the law is what it is. Transitional decisions are sometimes very welcome, but sometimes very disturbing. In the Slovenian National Party, we assess that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the electoral law to the National Assembly is certainly acceptable and certainly necessary at first reading. I stress once again, we are looking at that it is intended to the greatest extent to electorate and electorate and it creates some new, mitigating conditions for them, some new possibilities for deciding on their conscience. This law also concerns all of us and we estimate that at least those two issues, i.e. the abolition of Article 53a and question 10 of Article 10, should be considered below. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not be absolutely opposed to the draft law. However, we want this to be designed and improved in a way that would actually benefit all Slovenes and Slovenians. Whoever sits here after 2008, that's what they're gonna do.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I call on Mr William Rezman to present the views of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The change in other circumstances and the situation occasionally entails the need to amend electoral legislation and the electoral system. This path, in the opinion of our Group, is not a setback in the electoral system, but it is an attempt at some reallocation. Otherwise, we estimate that it is positive that the proposaler accepted with favor the opposition's challenge, that this general debate be held, that we should give ourselves time to think before we finally adopt the amendments and additions to the law, and we also assess that it was very positive that the contractor was able to take into account some of the concerns of individual parliamentary groups already during the preparation period, that they did not come into the proposal itself and that they were not the subject of the split now. Today, it has already been said that under the first change, perhaps someone would not, but what is important is that all that can be good is not yet acceptable to all, especially at a certain stage in the development of democracy, as we could have lost something positive. Therefore, the Democratic Party of Slovenian pensioners also opposed some of the proposals, which were also on the table at the time, and we feel it is right that all proposals are not yet on the table or that the will of some smaller parties and their parliamentary groups has also been taken into account. We support the other improvements that these amendments and the amendment of the law bring because, in any case, some are necessary due to constitutional provisions, because of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and also because of the fact that they would not be able to run on their noses just before the next elections, which they would never know exactly when they would be. It is right that we have the opportunity to prepare properly with amended electoral legislation. However, the reasons for the changes may be different and we group together for two reasons. Some are conditionally said to be formal reasons that do not bring about very important changes in the stability of political power, and others are substantive reasons. The essence of changing electoral legislation according to our judgment is that we have to ask ourselves what then changes in the composition of the national assembly, what changes in the power of political parties or political entities, what changes in the ability to influence decisions or what changes in the final consequences of the way and the possibility of rule in Slovenia. This is in principle when electoral legislation is changing. It is therefore a reallocation of the political space and a reallocation of power in this space. Some other changes, which are also welcome and which we support, seem more marginal. Perhaps everyone would disagree with this, but that we are changing the way the electoral authorities work, that something is also being corrected in the area of election financing, that certain technical aspects are being corrected. Some people think it's very important if we have transparent ballot boxes, but we don't think it's something that we should hang on to the big bell. Even a few weaknesses will arise in this regard because the battlefields are installed in these transparent electoral boxes primarily for the sake of preventing any abuse. Of course, there have been many such abuses, perhaps because of such abuses, and because of such abuses, the political power of error has been redistributed. So, there was no evidence of such a thing, including any particular controversy about it so far. It is commendable that there is indeed a change in the way, in fact, in the voting technique, to change what has been the most today and is likely to be mentioned, the possibility or greater gender equality in voting and in meeting the political space, i.e. in the possibility of decision-making. For the first time in this area, we had a lot of controversy about this last year, and then there was some fear of women who were unjustifiable in our judgment. At that time, we pleaded for a higher percentage, for a chain and for greater women's emancipation, not just for their candidacy. Unfortunately, this time too, 35% is rapidly falling apart in the transitional provisions and this tendency to participate, to participate in real policy in the transitional provisions is stepping up. But it is true that this 25% is exactly as much, one tenth less than in the last election of women candidates, 24.9% have been nominated. We've only improved for one tenth. That's theoretical. In practice, however, there will certainly be something more on average then the women involved than the candidates, because this will be the lower limit. Some parties will certainly have a higher percentage of women on candidate lists. Unfortunately, there is nothing to say about how many will be elected. We can only hope that we will not be satisfied with the fact that there will be something more on the candidate lists and elected than in the Arab world, where the women on the lists are the least. Some are afraid of highlighting differences, but I think there are no mistakes if we stress that it is not gender in general, but it is a purely specific empirical difference, because in the present life these differences also show very concrete and very empirical, unfortunately in terms of discrimination against women. Therefore, we feel that it is right that these percentages rise to the extent that we are not shy when we try to increase them. In the DeSUS Group of Members, we will also be prepared to support some good amendment in this regard in further consideration. Nothing has to be feared by women in politics, as it was said last year, that women could even overthrow politics so that they could be harmful in politics. I hope that at least those who are already in politics can deny this, especially ours in the European Council, where we do not have to blush when we talk about the percentage of participation in the functioning of the European Parliament. There are, however, some other weaknesses that I am simply alerting in this proposal. One such is that we have once again avoided the incompatibilities of the mayor's and the MP's functions, and our parliamentary group supports this incompatibility. We estimate that it is not the best solution to decimate the number of signatures for the candidate lists, because this, Mr Minister, is not a minimum number 1,000, which is ten times the number of signatures. This may be minimal for the value of some people involved, but for some others it is extremely high. And we would also support some kind of amendment that would lower that number. Otherwise, we will support the proposal and we will actively participate in the second and third readings, because it does improve with regard to the current situation, and it is right to improve it in the future with some amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you very much. In the meantime, young visitors and visitors, whom I welcome, joined us on the stand. Welcome to the Slovenian Parliament! By the way, photography is forbidden, just like anywhere else. But it's Dr. Gaber's turn, because the previous two discussers are missing. [[Mr Grims and Mrs Possonec]] . [[Back-up advertising.]] It's not in the script. I'm sorry, I'm currently replacing Vice President Pečet's colleague. Dr. Gaber, your word. But there could still be someone instead of Mr Grimes. Will you do it? Mr. Petan, you have the floor. [[Back-up advertising.]] Yes, Mr. Petan, it would be right to announce in advance. I've decided to give you my word. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I literally thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! The problem that this law deals with has a beautiful and rich history. Many words have been said, I am sure that even too much in the part that speaks about whether the decisions of the Constitutional Court should be respected. What am I talking about? The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the original text did not determine the electoral system in its content, and Article 80 of the Constitution regulated only the composition of the national assembly, but not the system by which we will elect this composition of the national assembly. A referendum on the majority electoral system took place earlier in the period until the year 2000, when we installed this famous provision on the electoral system in article 80. And since the political atmosphere was such that the majority electoral system, despite the fact that the referendum and the results were the same as they were - I will not explain them again, because we have already spoken too many times about this and said too many words about it - it was possible to bypass these results of the referendum only by means of constitutional law, by incorporating them into the constitution. Of course, this has its own good and its own bad side. The good side, perhaps under the narration, is that such a system is concrete and does not depend on the once-in-a-lifetime will of the ruling coalition. To say that the ruling coalition does not have the will to make a difference in this mandate is, of course, to speak in vain because a two-thirds majority is needed for change; and we know that this coalition does not have a two-thirds majority. The bad side is exactly the same - since the system is concrete, it is also difficult to prepare any change. And that change ahead of us is likely to have a thorny path. It is also true that such a system, as we have incorporated in Article 80 of the Constitution, now raises a lot of dust on the content of this, the consequences of political parties having too much power. This is precisely the problem because the system we now have, which is incorporated into the constitution, gives political parties power because political parties decide everything, not some programme blocks, which is of course necessary in the majority electoral system. There's a software block that has the same views on certain content, and then before the elections they put together a block. In this system, which we have installed in Article 80 of the Constitution and which we would like to correct today, we have corrected the little thing, but it is quite the opposite. Political parties have more power here. No problem, but the only problem is that it is those who have been the biggest advocates to beat the referendum on the majority electoral system that are now challenging the excessive power of political parties. This is a problem because it is necessary to decide why we made such a and such a system that favors customers at the time. We must accept this, and those who voted in favour should question their conscience a little. The fact is that these changes that are ahead of us are due to the fact that they are being complemented, of course if there is a sufficient majority, we will support these changes in the SDS party, improve the basic Article 80 and, on the other hand, this amendment or these changes are necessary in order to comply with certain decisions of the Constitutional Court. These were a whole bunch and it was almost one year before there was any Constitutional Court decision in 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003, 2005, and every year there was a warning by the Constitutional Court and without being interpreted creatively, this decision will have to be respected in some way. I hope that we will never again pass this decision or destroy it with any constitutional law. On the other hand, these changes are also necessary due to some shortcomings which make it difficult to conduct elections relating to the work of the electoral authorities. Certain problems also arise in financing because the basic law in the elections in the National Assembly was adopted a few years ago, and legislation goes its way, life goes on and certain things need to be changed. One of the proposed amendments also concerns so-called changes, I do not know if I should use the expression of the women's quota, because this term really bothers me. Perhaps with the participation of women in politics it would be possible to do a little better, but a woman's quota, we immediately understand what this is about, and the expression is very simple and allows a balance between both sexes in this area of our lives. True, this must be acknowledged that quotas alone will not solve the underlying problem. It was still so that what was imposed was never good, but what was prescribed by law was forced. This has also not been effective and has not achieved its purpose in the right sense, but it may also help to improve the climate and that we will probably also be aware in our society of the necessary and acceptable representation of both sexes in politics. Of course, no ad hoc procedure is good, but it takes a step-by-step path just to improve this climate. The climate for balanced representation is probably overnight or during the day or just over the thumb, unable to prepare quickly and can not be directed. It is therefore likely that this stage is acceptable and appropriate, and these changes, which are now under first reading, are probably those that could also contribute. That is also why we will support these proposed changes in the SDS. The fact is that these changes are those that are improving the current, including this constitutional law that is still in force, and I hope that it will not be cemented forever, because 2/3 is not that simple. Moreover, since we have already heard something about democracy at 2/3 of the majority, I would like to ask a question that would put it in a concrete position, namely, what is more democratic. Or 2/3 of the majority, which is accepted by 2/3 of the majority, or by the average majority? Quickly, if I answered, the answer would probably be clear, but there is also a lot of talk and it says that compromise has always been needed for the majority. If a compromise is needed for 2/3 of the majority, then we ask ourselves what is more democratic, or what is the common majority that does not need a compromise, or the two-thirds majority for which it is necessary. And now I'm going back to the beginning, to the starting point, in constitutional law, it's always a two-thirds majority, and that's why we have to make a huge effort to get there. Of course, independent of every once-in-a-lifetime ruling coalition. On the other hand, if it were a simple law that did not go through the referendum, then a simple majority would be needed, but it is true that it would depend more on the current ruling coalition. And since we have heard today that the ruling coalition may not have listened, the question arises. However, in any event, these changes, which are here today and will be supported by the SDS, would not be necessary if we then respected the Constitutional Court's decision if we were aware that the referendum had been carried out. If the people at the referendum had made this decision, no matter how the system was implemented on the basis of the disengagement of votes, there were not two issues, but three, then perhaps today would not be necessary to discuss again. At the outset, however, I said that there were probably too many unnecessary words on this issue, and I mentioned which, in particular, the appropriateness or necessity to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. And I am afraid that we will probably also be in the face of these changes, which are really cosmetic and only facilitate or improve the current law, which has nothing to do with the past, because we have played the decision of the Constitutional Court, including the results of the referendum. As the saying says, "Better is a very small light than a curse on the topic," then that is sufficient reason to support these proposed changes in the SDS. If there is any other good solution for improvement and if the majority is needed, of course we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you. Next is a presentation of the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, Dr. Slavko Gaber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u46	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen! In the LDS, we welcome the willingness of the government and the coalition to supplement the law on elections to the National Assembly in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. With the necessary amendments to the law, our parliamentary group will also support it. Of course, I must say at the same time that we regret in the LDS that the coalition has failed to be able to propose amendments that would give effect to the basic requirement of the 2000 Constitution, namely the requirement that voters have a decisive impact on the allocation of mandates to candidates and candidates. This is something that, as the Minister well knows, and everyone who is at least far away also dealing with the issues of the electoral system is still waiting. In the House of Representatives, we find that the National Assembly with the law before us today will not meet the most important requirements of the Constitution by means of a new regime. Despite the fact that it has already been said here today that it is unlikely that such a solution, which would enable it, would be possible to do so, we are proposing that we have a joint reflection on the introduction of the ballots in the electoral units. And from these constituencies, which are to coincide with future provinces, we will bring equal representation from all over Slovenia to the National Assembly in such a way that the party will not decide who is actually elected from the list, but on the basis of the votes it will be decided by the electorate and the electorate. Since there has been much to be heard in recent days about the importance of people's voices and the need to reduce the impact of parties on those sitting in Parliament, it does not indicate that we have systems in place across Europe that allow this to happen. A serious preferred voice, perhaps even as far as Finland has known for years and has worked well, is our proposal for reflection until the next round, in which Parliament will address this issue again. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to touch one more solution in the introduction, which is otherwise correctly directed, but remains halfway. I will talk about what some people have already said before me, with the difference that I am not ashamed to talk about quotas, because I think that as a normal mechanism in civilized European countries they have long been in force - about quotas that ensure the appropriate or at least sufficient representation of certain groups of people in this national assembly. The question of Parliament's representation is one of the fundamental issues of parliamentary democracy, and it is interesting that we, without realizing it, for example, by dividing Slovenia into electoral units, have been through everything. In doing so, we are not talking about the fact that we want to provide every part of Slovenia here, in this national assembly at least a certain number of Members and Members, what is different, ladies and gentlemen, as a quota. This is a quota because it is regional, because it is local, we accept it, but we are deeply disturbed in another area or we have problems with it. As I have already announced, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we welcome the idea, and I think that this progress is compared to the existing regulation that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 43 of the Constitution, this provision on the minimum number of persons represented by one or another on the lists is also introduced into the law. What bothers us is that we are too ambitious about this. It is clear that the average of the previous elections already speaks of anyone who makes an effort to achieve this 25%, which is now the lower threshold for the 2008 elections. Our proposal is, therefore, to consider together whether we should increase the country's ambitions for the 2008 elections and set a 30% threshold than the threshold that the parties are supposed to reach if they are to go to these elections this year. We also propose that together we consider not having a 35% share of one sex in the lists as the final goal of our electoral system, but set it at 40%, this seems to us to be a significantly more meaningful share of one or another sex, especially respected gentlemen, because colleague Barovic is right when he speaks of the fact that it is entirely possible that this percentage can benefit us once more than sex in the future. In this country it has been coming from college and other higher education institutions to more women's genders with diplomas than men, so it may also be because of some caution, a male chauvinist, to think meaningfully about quotas, then, I am almost sure they will hear differently than now, then this will be the very mechanism. Perhaps, Mr Minister, it is also possible to reflect on the fact that, in the event that the parties do not provide this proportion on the lists, just as they know it in France, and nevertheless let them run, but let us encourage their reflection on the fact that it would be good to have a sufficient number of persons of different sex on the lists, also by getting a few less reimbursements when it comes to paying the costs of the electoral campaign and getting less funds for the running of parliamentary clubs. For example, if, in the 2008 elections, at 30% of the parties did not achieve this, it would probably have resulted in a 25% reduction in the reimbursement of costs. So, ladies and gentlemen, I propose, when we welcome to the LDS Club the law that we have before us, considering its completion, more than calling after that and saying that those who doubt that the opposition would know this time to add their share of the votes to more ambitious solutions can be comforted in peace. It is not up to us whether you will adopt a law that will enforce what the Constitution imposes on us or whether it will be adopted in our mandate. We will support a more ambitious solution with a proportionate proportion of our votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. I give my word to Ambassador Bojan Kontic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The law that we are considering today in general, at first reading, is certainly ripe for further consideration in the national world, especially because it does not interfere very thoroughly with the electoral system, although these ideas of changing the electoral system are still present, there is talk of a majority system, there is talk of the abolition of electoral thefts, but all of these stories we have heard in the past, have been identified, and the legislation is as it is, and also the changes at this point are not going in the direction that we have discussed and decided very intensively in the past mandate. Even if we were to discuss the content that was already on the table in the previous term of the National Assembly, we would have made a similar decision. I would reject the abolition of electoral thefts, and there is no need to discuss the reasons this time too much because this is not on the agenda. I certainly welcome the efforts or directions in this direction to take care of people with disabilities who have had difficulties coming to vote so far. This should be settled by now, but it is only right that this should be recorded in this law and that this should be settled. I think the state will also have to make a few arrangements to get voters to be fit for the disabled. The change in the number or method of calculation in the electoral units is certainly better because more votes, or in this way also mandates, will remain within the electoral unit, so that a number of delegated mandates will be distributed at first level and then slightly less in another country. However, as a fellow member of the DeSUS delegation, I have some concerns about sharpening the rules on the voter. This is probably not due to past experience, but only to the desire to improve things, because otherwise we would have questioned all the elections in the past, and I hope that is not the case. The fact that political power is not so can be misdistributed, but we probably agree with all those who are in opposition because we would like a different result. Articles of these amendments also change the number of signatories to the lists or candidates within the electoral unit, where we raise from 100 to 1,000, which is an important increase in the required quota. This means, of course, that matters are exacerbated here, as they were before at local elections or at a local level, where there was a significant fear of so-called non-party candidates and before political parties could lose some of the power or part of the influence. This story is now being translated into this law, where we say that we are making it easier to collect signatures because they will be able to sign in front of everyone, for this to the competent authorities. At the same time, we give and take at the same time, but I don't think this is a good thing and it makes sense to think about it again. There were also many words about quotas, whether they are women or men's quotas. When I look at the result of past elections for the National Assembly, I can see that the ruling coalition is made up of four parties, and two of them do not even have women as representatives in their groups. So the situation is worrying. That only one group of Members has drawn close to the provision set out in the transitional provisions of this Article, although I know that there is a difference between the loved ones and the chosen ones. This applies to both sexes and, of course, if there is no offer, there is no choice, so it is good that this is enshrined in the law. However, the question is whether it is good that the law contains 35 and then in the transitional provisions: but at the following elections 25. It would probably make sense to consider the amendment. In order not to remain in the government coalition, because the opposition is not significantly better at the composition of the parliamentary groups, but still leaves a few percent. Even with the so-called abolition of electoral thefts, the structure, at least in my opinion, would not change significantly. It will probably be necessary to do something else, even though today we know that when we have constituencies, we also determine in some way the possibility of electing an individual or an individual. And if they were to replace the sexes there, the picture in Parliament would be different. The electoral system itself will not eliminate this weakness or the flaw that we currently have in Slovenian politics, but we are not a special exception. However, more will have to be done in this area than merely amending electoral legislation. However, this is a step forward, and it is certainly worth supporting, as well as the Minister's thinking that electoral changes or changes to electoral legislation during the electoral year are not appropriate, that it is still the right time to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Jacob the President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I, too, have made it clear in the opinion of the Group that I am in favour of these proposed amendments, which are in all its parts, as regards the women's quota as a technique in voters, etc., where I also believe that there is no mistrust or suspicion of any abuse in the past and in the past elections. In particular, it is a matter of putting an end to the possibility of shortcomings or abuses in the law itself and thus ensuring that the results of the elections do not result in any suspicion of illegality, which we often use. The quota arrangements seem important to us. It is true that my predecessor told me before me that some coalition and opposition parties in their ranks do not have MPs. That is the case, at least with us, that we have run, and I myself have participated in these candidates, in determining and addressing individual candidates and candidates for the National Assembly, that we had quite a large number - I do not remember the percentage now - but that percentage was not the worst. I think there were about 14% of them, fellow Members of the National Assembly, but unfortunately the results were the same as those of the current Social Democrats, and again in the previous term there was no representative in the National Assembly, with a relatively large number of candidates. If we set this threshold slightly higher in the first and second steps, then this option after election is significantly greater, but above all it is important to be careful - I have already initially said that it is primarily the responsibility of political parties, the leaders of political parties, for women to run in such places where there is also a possibility of emancipation. I also highlighted another problem, which is the problem of young people in the parties, in the National Assembly. So all these provisions are impossible to write in law, but they are important in my opinion when we recruit candidates, when we designate candidates, that we also run in political parties for young people, that we also give young people the opportunity to take important positions in politics, that, as we see, this is already happening in the economy, and I think that this is very important for the development of the country, for the placement of Slovenia in European and global space. So, as I say, I will support this law, and it also seems important to me that we are talking mainly about the parts that this law deals with. Many speakers before me and on various other occasions talk about matters, solutions to the electoral law that are not the subject of this law and have been rejected in some way or other in the past. We, too, supported the majority electoral system in the then parliamentary group on the occasion that the electoral law was discussed in the National Assembly, but once we saw that this majority system would not get enough votes, we tried to settle some things that were urgently needed to be regulated. This is what some have been throwing at us for six years, but we do not burden ourselves with it, because we think as we thought at the time, that the majority electoral system for Slovenia and for the Slovenian electorate is bad. So, as we say, we support all these changes in the law and I will also support the law at first reading when the vote is voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you. I give my word to Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u52	Thank you. The main support for the proposed changes would like to add two concerns at times. The first refers to a decision or proposal to bring electoral papers as a special publication into each home and to place them in public competition. Do not accept this as cynicism, but I hope that in due time you can come to the households in the light of the experience we have from somewhere else. The main part of my debate will touch on what the vast majority of debaters have already mentioned. It's 100 years since Finland allowed women to enter politics at the big doors. But if you review the proposed changes in the introductory part, you will see that the Finns also set quotas by law, and I want to continue here, and the quotas where these are not directly-loved functions, because this is the standard for them, that the participation of women in decision-making is achieved by Tarja Halenen, and there is something else that is probably good enough to prove this my claim. Even in the proposed law, I can't find written women's quotas, not men's, but quotas. If anyone is disturbed by the word quota, he should replace it with a share or another word, because it doesn't matter how we name it. It is, however, that gender balance is something that we have faced with very high support for the amendment of Article 43 of the Constitution, and we have reached agreement when we passed the electoral law to the European Parliament, which has not gone so smoothly as not to say humanely when we were talking about the law on local elections. Excuse me. Not all three laws can be directly compared because electoral systems are different, and I join all those who say that the law itself will not bring a greater proportion of women into the Slovenian National Assembly simply because, in addition to how many women are required to be on the electoral list, whether three, four or five, which would be 25%, 35% and 40%, will bring about how many women in the constituencies will be deployed because we are well aware that it is very important for the parties to have strong support in the electoral body. If the story repeats that we will achieve a percentage, as has been said, of the average percentage of candidates already in the 2004 national elections, and if this percentage will help to raise mainly small parties who will not cross the threshold of the National Assembly, then women in the State Assembly will probably not be as many as we are now, as this percentage of elected women in the Slovenian Parliament is always around 12 or even lower, only for a short time at the end of the previous term was 14. This is an unacceptable number for European standards, it is not possible to say that we, who have brought us into Parliament, into Slovenian politics, a new quality, because our impact is too small; for the impact of women on decision-making to be greater, but should be more representative. If you ask me, as much as the relationship between sexes is in nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Joseph Bajc. Here you go. You're giving up. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. In the law on elections to the National Assembly, for us, Members and Members, one of the most important changes in the definition of gender shares is that I would call it, not women's quotas. In fact, this law is not written for today and tomorrow, nor for 2008, but, at least once, I hope for a change, for maybe 10 or 15 years. And it would be better to talk about sex quotas if we were talking about quotas, because this is not about protecting the interests of the female part of the Slovenian population, but about protecting the interests of both the male and female parts of the Slovenian population. However, given the current distribution of seats in parliaments of a large number of European countries, gender quotas are essential to maintain at least 40% of the seats in parliaments for men, not for women. In particular, there are already more than half of the women in Parliament in Norway and Sweden. And I think that this is a serious enough warning that the introduction of sex quotas into electoral law alone is not enough, especially in the electoral system as we do. In fact, with the majority electoral system or with the cross, as we have, the cross of the proportional and majority system, more importantly, in which the constituency of the constituencies are members or members of the individual sex, not whether the number of one or the other sexes is sufficiently significant, I would say, closer to the ideal 50% representation. Even if a 50:50 relationship had been established in the law, we would end up experiencing something similar to what we are experiencing now, as my colleague Majda Pót has already said, that it depends on which constituency is in which constituency that each party after 1992, 1996, 2000 and 2004, after four consecutive elections after this electoral system, we know very well where each party's candidates are truly electoral and which one is not. If you remember, two years ago, we said that six years ago, "if you ran a horse in an election district on a party's list, you'd be elected." So we know what it's like. So if an individual party had a serious intention to send half of its candidates elected to Parliament, then, of course, it would put women in those constituencies where this party is confident that its candidates or its candidates will also be elected. Nor does it matter if the party knows that it will receive about 12 seats, then in those 12 constituencies where it is confident that it will get elected candidates, it will put six women and six men, and there is no need for us to have sex quotas if we are purely fair and realistic. We are hiding behind some formal, seeming measures, for the seeming change of legislation, but then what happens then is the good will of every party. It's not hard to get a woman on the list when you say how you had to convince them that they were running, especially if you tell them that you won't be elected, but come just run in this constituency, we'll have a full list and we'll have 20 or 25% guaranteed. Without fear, dear colleagues and colleagues, a calm soul could say that the final goal is 50% of the candidates and candidates on the list of each sex. Quiet souls. Because, in any case, individual parties will make sure that 50% of women will be in those constituencies where they will certainly not be elected or will be very few. This is the real truth about this marriage, and let us not be misled. I think that all other things can still be done somehow, I will say, chew and digest, but this is really not necessary for me to chew or digest, and therefore I will not vote that the law is not suitable for further consideration, because at least we have corrected our appearance, so that before the European Union and the United Nations we can say before the various international women's associations: "We are concerned about the equality of women in politics," and then when they look at what the results of the 2008 elections will be, they will only smile and say, "Indeed, you are full of democracy only when you need to live, but you are really a little different." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you, Member of the Roast. But to my word, I invite the Ambassador, Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. It is difficult to add something more substantive to what has already been said on behalf of the LDS Club in the first place. It is also difficult to have a substantive debate about changes to the law, which are not substantive but merely technical in nature. It is amazing how the proposaler managed to avoid major changes in the substantive nature and not least to avoid the provisions of the Constitution, such as Article 80 of the Constitution, which states that they have an impact on the allocation of mandates to voters. There's no progress here. The proposal also partially escaped Article 43 of the Constitution, which speaks of better representation of women in Parliament, and could be said that this amendment of the law brings only technical improvements, techniques which I do not think are necessary, even though they are useful. For example, in order to ensure greater or at least adequate accessibility of people with disabilities to the electorate, this should be done without any change in this law. In a joke, I could say that the highest quality of the amendments to this law is actually a transparent ballot box. What major changes could not be expected for the better than this established law? It is true, however, that there is no need to oppose those changes imposed by decisions of the Constitutional Court, and in this respect it is also our duty to support these changes. However, there is also one interesting detail that Mr Barovic originally outlined: what will be the name or resolution of the Secretary of the State Election Commission - by making use of the provisions of the Law on Public Servants meaningful. We know what that means. So the secretary who might be politically incompatible will also be solved for non-criminal reasons. This will be done by the State Election Commission, but if we look at how the State Election Commission is made up, it is clear to us which political options such a secretary of the State Election Commission will have to be liked and for which political option it will have to be acceptable. She'd touch on the problem of representation of women. If I look around right now, I see that most of the women, Members, and, of course, a minority of men present today in this debate. I guess that says something. It must also say that this debate here is so dead and boring because so many of the changes that this law, as designed, brings are so dead and boring. Today, therefore, the representation of Members in this Parliament is 13%. Following the proposal for a new bill on elections to the National Assembly, which we are considering today, 11 candidates in the electoral unit will be only 3 candidates in 2008 and only 4 candidates in 2012. The solution offered by the bill says "no gender shall be represented on the candidate list with less than 35% of the total number of candidates and candidates on the list." This solution is for LDS a shift from the objectives we have followed both in the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, which sets out the representation of both sexes at 40%, as well as in the amendment of the Law on Local Elections, which has a long and non-ambitious transition period. The desire to get at least a little closer to the Nordic countries, which achieve an enviable percentage of women in Parliament, is therefore moving away from the government proposal. Therefore, in the LDS, we will propose a follow-up supplement to achieve that in 2008 there would be at least 4 candidates among 11 candidates in the electoral unit and at least 5 women candidates in 2012. We hope or insist that the only provision thus supplemented would be acceptable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you. I invite Member Stanislav Brenčič to the floor. [[He's not here.]] To the word of Ambassador Milan Petk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u58	Thank you, President, for your word. Somehow I didn't think about it at first, but this kind of one-man and one-many debate today has led me to try to say my thinking, which won't be much more spiritistic and different, but it will make me think to anyone else. As it is said, marriage really brings nothing revolutionary. I myself would like to find in this dichotomy of this event only time and opportunity to devote ourselves a little bit more to the necessary, at least in my opinion, necessary changes to the law in this area. And it obviously shows that there is no such maturity in the Slovenian political space, and so it is not in this House to make more concrete changes or more difficult changes in the law. He would be on his own if we were to negotiate and discuss whether the boundaries needed to be removed. I don't think the edges are a good solution. The boundaries are a solution in which the most competent representatives of each area are not actually elected. So, obviously, it was necessary at some point, obviously, some still feel that it is not necessary to change this, and I think that the abolition of the thefts in which 11 Members would compete with each other, in which a preferential advertisement would allow for the selection of more competent, more capable, more called people, would be the right solution for the future stage or way of democracy, which would be better presented in Parliament than so far. I don't know where the proponent saw the reason for the introduction of this transparent box. I do not think that in the current practice of electoral work it has been detectable, at least I do not know these cases, and I do not think that no one has experienced irregularities among us, nor do I understand how a transparent box should ensure that the deficiencies in electoral work are addressed. I can't imagine. I hope that someone will explain what this means, so that this transparent box would allow for possible irregularities. Or I am naive and I think it is unjustifiable to believe that there was no such thing in the Slovenian space. Those articles, which are discussed most today, are Articles 10, 11 and 34, which corrects Articles 10 and 11, I regret that Articles 24 have come to pass. I think that we should clearly and loudly record that in the Slovenian space there has been a situation with a change that these quotas, which some very much like to avoid, must be such that they simply say: the ratio of the male and female population in the Slovenian space is 50:50. At least we know that there is even more in favour of women, but at least 50:50 should be the goal that we should write in the law, because this would be a drop in the alibi, that we wrote 35% as a target by 2012, because in 2008 we will again find that it might be appropriate to write another goal, and we will be afraid of this goal, and therefore again with dilemmas and doubts we will write these quotas in numbers such as we think we should come to the end. Personally, I think we should write now that 50% of the male population, 50% of the female population, is our target, because this would avoid us making our own decisions. This is where most men sit, and these men keep thinking, "No, not yet, we'll wait for the next generation of MPs, and they'll stick with this nut." No, no, no. I think that we should cut, in 2012 we should be 50:50 in this House, in the 2008 elections it should be 30%, and this rate would be at least at my discretion natural and would meet those standards that in most European, particularly free democratic, with democratic tradition, and I think that in Slovenia it would be time to do so too. Since the will of the ruling coalition is that voting depends primarily on them, I do not pretend that this goal can be achieved already in this mandate, to reflect on all of us and also on the magnetograms that will remain to the craftsmen, but I think it is right to say what each of us thinks about such numbers. I will also personally support this law, but if it will further improve or the numbers I am talking about, or some inconsistencies in the part where they talk about the borders, I think we should take a step towards the abolition of the electoral thefts, I would support the law even more than I do now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u59	Thank you. I call to the floor the Member of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to take advantage of 10 seconds of my time past the Rules of Procedure to express my sincere congratulations on my birthday on behalf of the Slovenian National Party to the Vice-President of the National Assembly. If I go back to the law, the most important speech in the presentation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, why these changes are necessary, was mainly because it follows the objective of the constitutional law. The constitutional law required these amendments in two articles, and we amend them 32, 30 articles of amendments to the law are such that we can also understand them as technical. A few words were also spoken about transparent boxes. I must say that I very much support the implementation of these transparent boxes, which was already at the beginning of the Slovenian National Party's idea, especially for the reason that we reject all the shadows of doubt or at least most of the shadows of doubt about the regularity of individual parliamentary or municipal elections by having transparent boxes and seeing how many ballot boxes are already or are not in the box at 7:00 a.m. when voters open. Many words were also spoken about the so-called quotas. The quotas, as defined by the Government and defined in the Local Elections Act, are the fact or coercion of some parties who were sometimes in power, although I think that the arrangement proposed today is only sand in the eyes. The already existing Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia allowed 50:50, 80:20, as much as the ratio of women in this Parliament. By legislating, we make provision in the law that a certain quota of women must run for elections, it seems to me that we are committing some kind of coercion or underestimating women. If women were intended or intended to engage in politics, they had the option or have it today. I don't think there is a political party in this House, not a political party representative who would say, "we didn't want to put women in a place that would be optional or impossible"; there is no such representative in this House. We all had the option of setting 80 women between 90 and 88 candidates, in so far as this is the policy of a particular party and in so far as a political party is concerned, such quotas of women who are prepared, without being imposed by the legislator or the law, give them the opportunity to participate in the elections. I will not object to the bill myself, because I am confident after a thorough review of the law that it is a technical correction. I even believe that we are following the 2004 constitutional law in those two articles. Everything else seems to me to be about certain technical corrections, and I also welcome the implementation of the transparent boxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u61	Thank you twice. I give my word to Ambassador Bojan Rugle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Well, I think it should be stressed that this law is very well prepared, as most of you will essentially support it, although you have some comments, which is understandable. When I listen to different debates, I would like to take a personal interest in the majority system. At that time, voters would decide which sex they would vote on, at least some voters. I don't think we should prescribe this too much to the electorate. And quotas for different sexes are, in my opinion, appropriate, at the beginning of a quarter, then a good third. These quotas are intended only to encourage, but they cannot prescribe how many women must sit here. Voters must still have the right to decide who to elect. If we're the same people, women and men, I think it's those who overemphasize it that you're literally denying it. As far as this is concerned, I think there are no obstacles, and these quotas essentially prescribe a minimum. I don't know why we're all stopping at 25 and 35% now, that's the minimum. But when you prescribe the right percentage, you take it from someone again. What about where he wants me to run for office and no woman wants to run? Yeah, what do we do now? So we took someone's right to run, because we say the other sex has to run. But we know we're all equal. So I think that, in the context of this promotion of equal representation of both sexes on the lists and also in Parliament, these quotas are quite appropriate, at least for me personally. As far as election theft is concerned, it is also my opinion that it is right that the others, because it is the constituencies that allow us to decentralise Slovenia. If the constituencies were abolished, be assured that the majority of voters from larger places, not robberies, would most likely come to Parliament. And then there would be centralization, which wouldn't be good. But personally, I stand up, as I said at the outset, for a pure majority system. Slovenia is divided into so many and so many constituencies where voters can freely decide who they will vote on whether it is a woman or a man. And then it would be so pointless to discuss any quotas at all. Or someone else wants to prescribe who the electorate has to vote on. I think this law is really appropriate; given the proportional system that we have right now, there is much better to do, so I will be happy to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you. I give the word "magic." Franz Znidarsich. [[He's not here.]] The word has magic. Janez Kramberger. [[He's not here.]] I give my word to Mr. Gezi Juban. [[He's not here.]] I give my word to Ambassador Michael Prevec. [[He's not here.]] I give my word to a magician. Branku Grims. [[He's not here.]] The word is by Mojca Kucler Dolinar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Chairman. The proposal for a law on elections to the National Assembly was also accompanied by this provision, which is also the most discussed on the minimum participation of female candidates, or we can talk about the minimum representation of both sexes, which came to the National Assembly around 8 March. And I considered it to be some symbolism around the International Women's Day. However, I hope that this well-intentioned provision will also be applied in reality and that we will also come from words to action. Above all, I think - there are two important questions here. Especially for men, whether you really want equal representation; but also for us women, for those of us who are in politics, as well as for those who are not yet in politics, or do we work in the direction that more of us will be in politics and that our voice will also be better heard. I am proud to come from the New Slovenia Group, where, compared to the other parties, the equal representation of both genders is above average, on average the number of Members. So this means that we are aware of this in our essence, without screaming about the importance of a woman in all spheres of social life, and in particular the numbers indicate it. Today, I should point out that it would not then be otherwise written that this does not apply, in particular to those arguments which today have tried to criticise the introduction of such a threshold by the SDS Group of Members, colleague Gabra and colleague Darja Lavtišar Bebler. So in the New Slovenia Group, we are represented by women with slightly more than 22%. If I am going to look at the LDS Group of Members, there are three members of the Group of Members, i.e. this percentage is 13%, then the SDS is around 10%, the SNS is good 16%, and as has already been established, there are no MPs in the two SLS and DeSUS political parties. So much about this, about the ambition of the marriage proposal itself, in the SD Group of Members, this percentage is also slightly lower than in us, is 20%. So the law is quite ambitious. My colleague Gaber said there was no ambition here. I think there's been a lot less ambition with their client so far. Whether the threshold is right or not, surely each political party must first look at its own threshold and ask itself whether it really does everything to ensure that more women are on the candidate lists and also later elected to come to this national assembly than we are now. Of course, it is my position as our New Slovenia that we must strive for more women in politics. I think it makes sense to introduce this minimum share gradually, otherwise this legislative decision and this marriage proposal could somehow go in the opposite direction. Of course, it is just one of the incentives. Above all, my opening remarks raise the question of how much in this room is a real desire for equal, equal representation of both sexes. Therefore, the pursuit of this is one thing, but the basis must be that it must not go for any coercion. It is important for a woman to decide for herself and to decide to participate in political life primarily with the motive to do good for citizens and citizens and to implement that legal provision, which speaks of the fact that we are Members and Members of all people, without that aprioral starting point in relation to sex, as it will only give rise to the expression of our positive qualities, specificities, our advantages, and in particular our good cooperation with men colleagues, so that we can only represent a complementary part of the social reality here. We can view this new provision as one of the measures, in particular by informing the parties that they are also running for women on real-electoral borders, on real-electoral cities. Let me conclude by saying that I believe that the basis is, above all, that both women and men in politics must be connected by the same thing, so this is the work for people, and above all it is more than meaningful to talk about competition between men and women in politics. Above all, we must remain women, without taking over the characteristics of another sex, and maintain our own identity. I think that the bill is appropriate, mainly because of this gradual introduction of the minimum proportion of women on the candidate lists. I will therefore vote in favour of the law myself in this first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Commissioner Christian Janz. [[He's quitting.]] I give my word to Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and honourable Members! Today, much has already been said about certain changes and additions to the electoral law in the National Assembly. I'd focus on three things myself. The first thing that I think is extremely important in these changes is that the proposed amendments provide the electorate with better conditions for the exercise of their electoral rights, which is reflected in this law in particular by the increased possibility of voting by post. The proposed amendment, as we know, extends the time limit to which the ballots submitted by mail from abroad are still to be taken into account. Last but not least, the law also regulates the electoral right of incompetent persons. It also seems important to me that certain proposed solutions appear primarily to increase the transparency of elections and to prevent abuses on voters. The so-called introduction of the transparent ballot box and the introduction of the voter's signature in the electoral directory have already been mentioned here. Of course, today we are all discussing, particularly the members of the National Assembly, the increase in the participation of women in public life, particularly in the National Assembly, in politics. Here I am asked, perhaps justifiably, perhaps unjustifiablely, the question whether the introduction of so-called women's quotas is really the best way to lead to a greater proportion of women in politics. I must say that, as one of the few elected representatives of the National Assembly, I am proud that I have been elected, but I should point out that I wanted this entry into politics myself. I am not going to say that quotas do not represent any step forward in increasing the proportion of women in the National Assembly, but I think that it may sometimes happen that some women on the list will be more coerced than because they really want to be involved in politics as women. In my opinion, first of all, it is necessary to provide some different conditions, not to say, even to change the mentality of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and all of us who live in this country, so that women will actually decide to enter politics to co-create this political space. But it is true, as Mr Kontič said at the outset, and we all agree and see it here today, that women are too few in politics, but I believe that if a man at least slightly outgrew his great ego, then I am sure, and if women were to be placed in more electoral places, then the picture today in the National Assembly would be significantly different than we can see it now. Finally, I would like to touch on another matter, and many times by opposition Members, we hear that in the ruling coalition there is not enough done for women, too little for the emancipation of women, as this government coalition has been heard before, there is no female gender representative in two parliamentary groups. This is true, last but not least, that we had presidential elections years ago, where there was also a candidate for president, in my opinion she would have been a very good president, although this is my subjective opinion, and I have the right to do so, but unfortunately I do not think that it was the opposition party Members who were too fond of the fact that a woman could be the president of the country. I don't know how these MPs voted, I don't have that look, so I can assume they've even elected a candidate, I can even say, or honestly believe that they wanted to elect a candidate or a female representative, but unfortunately, it's only a matter of godly desire. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you. I invite Ambassador Marjetko Uhan to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. A well-known minister with a co-worker and everyone else present at the hall! The proposed law brings some changes, which should also bring better confidence in elections, and in the National Assembly, most notably in the case of boxes, and in the case of electoral committees, many more. There could certainly be much debate and, in particular, the opposition is talking a lot about the way elections are going, about the rights of voters. Let me say that New Slovenia has already supported this system in the previous term, but in the then ruling coalition, it did not get enough support. As for one comment by a member who said that the law did not touch on the compatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions, I do not think that this law regulates this. There would also be something to say about this, and I would also like to know which group will come first with such an amendment that would suggest this incompatibility. With regard to sex quotas or quotas today, the most common thing is to touch them as a woman. The quotas in this law are not supposed to be forced, but an incentive, at least that is how we understand these quotas in New Slovenia. I do not think that we will have any problems in New Slovenia with these shares, as Ambassador Kucler said we have almost as much as we have in recent elections. But to be honest with you, it would be normal for me not to have quotas or to expect it to be, say, "fixy fifty," 50:50, so it's in nature. Today, too, one argument was that women have an even greater or higher education or more diplomas than men, and perhaps it is also one criterion, and I do not think it is the only one. In short, I think that women should want to be elected to run for office, and that by coerced force alone, we will not achieve much with quotas. With a positive view to politics, demonstration and the impact that women are supposed to have on the legislative body, the adoption of laws so that they can essentially contribute to women's decision to run for themselves and contribute to the legislative body. In short, in New Slovenia we will support this law, the changes seem welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u69	Mr. Franz Kangler has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. I will be very happy to support these changes myself. I have listened very excitedly to some of the debaters before me and, of course, to my 10-year political kilometre in the National Assembly and to some mandates where the attempts of one or another member of some government coalitions or opposition parties after major changes in electoral legislation have certainly been able to generate a certain opinion after such a period. It is very important for us in the Slovenian People's Party Group and for me personally as a member of this group that it is necessary to take time to change electoral legislation. I think that the government with Mr Virant has prepared this law well to take into account some of the needs for amendments to this law, all that would be more or more after major changes, I think that at this point in the National Assembly there would be no two-thirds support for such changes. I also come from a parliamentary group where we do not have a single Member, although I hope to state with full responsibility that many women, good women and such constituencies have run for election before the elections of the Slovenian People's Party, but the electoral body has not given them a single mandate from our party and we do not have a representative. It is good that we have written into the law, as far as quotas are concerned, to give women the opportunity and the opportunity to take political action, but the thinking of the electorate will also need to be changed and of course the time will bring. In a longer, long-standing tradition of democracy, we will probably also be involved in the Slovenian political space, so that more women will opt for a political path by allowing them and giving them the opportunity and opportunity to be included in the candidate lists of individual political parties, which does not mean that they have the guarantee that they will be elected. For the time being, the electorate is the one who decides on the terms of office and remains so. However, I have listened with interest to some other Members, particularly from the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, who had comments and concerns on certain articles. One of the Members even pointed out to the government coalition that amendments to the legislation did not follow the requirements of the Constitutional Court and so on. I would like to stress what I have pointed out several times in the National Assembly that the only branch of power, the legislative branch of power, is not centralised as some would like. The only branch of government is evenly divided by its mandates throughout the Republic of Slovenia. Prekmurje, Koroška, Štajerska, Dolenjska, Notranjska, Primorska, Gorenjska - everyone has the same number of representatives according to the population. Difficulties, which were a number of years after the electoral system, both after the abolition of electoral thefts, electoral units, and in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, some wanted to have one electoral unit and 88 candidates in Slovenia. Which means that those gentlemen who come from Ljubljana, who are directly active and influential in political parties, have seats all in Ljubljana, would be at the summit of the elective cities. Others who, due to remoteness and to such or different political influences, would not be so involved in individual political parties would not be given the opportunity or the opportunity to be elected - in the event of the abolition of the constituencies and electoral units. Some also wish - and I also support - that voters would have a slightly different confidence in their voice and would have a slightly different impact directly on the individual vote. However, I cannot agree with the fact that, even within the constituencies, the elections would be terminated. If we end within the constituencies of the constituency, I am sure that such cities as today have their own representatives of the people, Members such as Ruše, Slovenian Konjice, Slovenian Bistrica, Lenart, Pesnica pri Maribor, Šentilj will no longer have the opportunity or the opportunity to get their representative in Parliament. This is another danger where we can talk again about centralisation within the units and within the legislative branch of government. And the Members themselves can be sure that they hold it, each in their own territory, from where it comes. And the legislative branch of power is the only branch of government in the Republic of Slovenia that is not concentrated in one place. If we go to see for comparison the judicial branch of power - see where the Constitutional Judges come from, how many Supreme Judges and where and who put them. If we go to the executive branch of the authorities, from ministers, secretaries of state, directors of the Directorates, and would also list - this is all the result of when we talk about centralisation. If this happens, political parties will intervene substantially after changes to electoral legislation in such a way that they will abolish the electoral borders, and if possible, some will also think about electoral units, then we will witness one of the largest centralisations in the Republic of Slovenia. And against such centralisation, I will personally oppose and, in accordance with all the options that I will make as a politician, if someone would like to play with it in this mandate, do everything I can to prevent it. So far, it seems fair to me that the constituencies, however divided by the Republic of Slovenia, have their own representative. It is true that there are cases and it is fair to say that two MPs are elected in one of the constituencies within the constituencies. There were three of them, but they're backing out. But if we remove the constituencies within the constituencies, and in most of these cities, which I have numbered, especially the smaller cities, because the constituencies, we have 8 of them, they are tied to large centres. The constituencies are linked to large centres - the special constituency is in Maribor, the eighth is, say, on Ptuj, Ljubljana has two or so. This means that candidates coming directly from the centre will have more opportunities to obtain directly allocated votes than those coming, say, from Slovenian Konjice, Slovenian Bistrica, Hot or Starš or similar. And also the recognition of politically active people from larger centres is slightly different from the recognition of political people from smaller cities or places. That is why I will personally support these changes, and at the same time my debate is intended in this direction, that those who think in any way beyond the scenes and behind us, those who are political actors by individual parties, in order to think carefully, if you want any further changes in this area, and insofar as these changes would lead you along this path, which I have outlined and shown in some way. I am sure that such a change would not have received two-thirds of the support of the National Assembly. This is a dangerous game, and as far as I know parliamentary democracy in some other Western European countries with a developed tradition, electoral systems rarely change and when they change, they change for a longer period and voter systems stick. Even in the Republic of Slovenia, we must not afford it, because power has been changed from left to right or right to left, so that someone can calculate in such a way or other way that a change in the electoral system can result in a different political or electoral outcome in the next parliamentary elections. I personally object to such a way. I myself will support the changes proposed by the government. In the sense that, as I have said before, strengthening decentralisation and certainly not being able to make major changes can and should not be accepted because they would be directed towards greater centralisation, which is what my Group and I are opposed to.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u71	Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Since we have been proposing this general debate in the National Assembly in the parliamentary group, let me say that even after more or less of the list has not been completed in time, I am convinced that it is useful that we have done it and that we have obtained an approximate picture of what will also be the final adoption of the law. Perhaps someone will be surprised to say that we will try to make further improvements to the law in the parliamentary group, but that the law already passed will be better than the existing one. I remember, like colleague Kangler, ten years ago when we first discussed - and perhaps not exactly ten years ago, it could be nine or eleven years ago, but a long time ago, we could discuss gender equality in the electoral system for the first time, when half the hall was hypnotized or talked with a mockery of this fact and that one of the options, not the only, not the best, but one of the options, or the minimum of them, was to ensure greater gender equality within the electoral system. Today, I have not heard such debates from anyone who has any concerns. In any event, this progress has been made for the National Assembly, which gives some hope that better results will be achieved in determining the candidate lists, especially in the elections. Secondly, I am pleased that we have discussed today the connection with various possible electoral systems and their consequences. I think this is right and right and that we are aware of this - there is no ideal electoral system. Each electoral system gives some advantages to the party, some advantages to larger or smaller municipalities, I think, to the place, some advantages also to the electoral influence on the election; different electoral systems have different effects. And today we have spoken to happiness in this way, because it is very uncomfortable, then when individual representatives of the party talk a lot, we are in favour of democracy and a multilateral system, but we fear the influence of the parties, which is pure stupidity, but we do not say that in this system the parties unfortunately or fortunately have a certain influence and that this influence in determining candidates is that this influence in classifying candidates into constituencies and thus to a large extent in determining the electoral system itself and thus determining to a large extent what the outcome will be. That's right. However, we can look for an electoral system where the impact will be smaller, but we will not completely abolish it, because if we do have a preferred voice, the order of the client sheets will still be set. If we also have the abolition of electoral thefts, we will still have customers who will set order and so on, so I feel that reality is useful and necessary in this regard. Finally, let me say that I would be very happy if words were no longer used in the subtext to play the results of the referendum on the electoral system. Also in the subtext, the use of this is incorrect, especially for parties who have had the opportunity and have taken advantage of it, that even as a government Venice Commission for Democracy through law they have referred to the question whether this point involved any act of referendum and received an answer: no, it was not possible. So please don't use this cheap demagogy whenever we talk about the electoral system, because it's no good to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u73	Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u74	Your Honors are here! I would like to join my colleague Potræ's opinion, who said that the debate was effective, urgently necessary and commendable. But the fact is that we have this kind of debate with roughly the same content when we are facing elections within the European Parliament, with elections within the framework of local communities and now in the final stage also with elections to the National Assembly. All these words about the big moves of the current government three years ago, the previous government, today, about how it fights and how it does everything for a more effective and more massive entry of women into politics are, of course, words that could have been taken from one, any year, from a tapegram and read aloud. And there's really nothing else to do. I would like to point out one of the good words, and at least after my assessment of the laudable words spoken by the Minister, because for the first time we are witnessing that a government representative has said that the electoral legislation in the electoral year is not to be amended. Although this is what the Constitutional Court ruling is talking about, I think from 1998, but this is the first time that a government representative has taken a positive approach, according to my assessment of the force, that is that citizens and citizens, voters and voters, and last but not least, candidates and candidates, are not placed before the new rules of the game just before the present. This is the purpose of this sentence and from this city, of course, I welcome it. Secondly, I would like to point out a disagreement with my colleague Bogdan Barovic, the representative of the National Party, who said that this time it was a law, i.e. amendments to the law on elections to the National Assembly, written to the people. In my opinion, it is not the basic, main purpose of any change, unfortunately, that any changes to the law are written to people, but only for how political parties, all together, or whether candidates and candidates will gain more votes in an easier way and that this is the true purpose of amending individual electoral legislation. I think it's very naive watching or flat-rate watching if we say that this law is solely intended to be friendly to potential voters and voters. I don't think that's true. You are trying or trying to simplify the way to get to the voices, perhaps in our case today, to the voices from abroad or to the voices of those who, because of such or other individual obstacles, have a difficult approach to the electorate. But there is no point in helping him, but that politics will help itself to gain more votes. Next, I would like to point out a dilemma that I have listened quite carefully to, namely, the abolition of electoral thefts. I personally do not claim that this would cause additional centralisation. According to my assessment, the abolition of electoral units would lead to decentralisation, not the abolition of electoral thefts, because the fact is that it is still better to have 11 rounded units than just one that we are witnessing today. This is, of course, the city of Ljubljana. Today we can talk about centralist regulation within our country, but we could not talk about it if we were to legislate 11 such centres, of course. And what is most important, and according to my assessment, is the infertility of the debate and the infertility of the proposed law, i.e. the law which has "fiche in its pocket" or on the back of that law. If the policy or the government of the Republic of Slovenia were really trying to make political positions easier to approach or more easily be occupied by women's representatives, then I don't know what we're waiting for, why the minister doesn't propose a change of government law and says that there is also a percentage of women's ministers there, but, of course, that doesn't come to your mind! And I'll tell you this, if you would suggest this, then you wouldn't even need an election, because we know that the government is appointed, it doesn't test in elections, and we could achieve this in my assessment in three months, in three cases - given that you've all been talking about a positive step forward here today, I believe that we would also support it. And from this title, it seems to me, Mr Minister, that next time we could give a national assembly with a change in the government law, where, I don't know, in the final, general provisions, it would be written that 30 or 35% of the members of the government were women's sex. This would, of course, raise the government among all those European countries about which your mouth is so full today. It is, of course, quite irrelevant to identify or enforce a single foundation that does not allow for greater participation of women in Parliament. In fact, we need to know, and here I agree with most of the debates and debaters that setting quotas or shares, whatever you call them, does not mean, of course, that the next term will be between us or with you more women's sex representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u75	Would you like a representative of the government, Mr. Minister, a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I also assess that this general debate on the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the electoral law to the National Assembly has been useful. Mainly, it revolved around two points of content, around two points, everything else remained more at the edge. The first item on which the debate revolved is the issue of the electoral system. There is no doubt that opinions remain divided on this issue. And I think that not so much depends on which party a Member belongs, but if there is, then here in fact each Member forms his own position and opinion on which electoral system is appropriate. It would be difficult to talk here about the monolithicity of political parties, perhaps with the exception of one, not more than two, but in all the parties, this also showed the final vote in the previous term, forming different views on this issue. I am sure that this debate by adopting this law in Slovenia is not closed, but that it will be reopened in one form or another and that in the future changes in the electoral system in the direction that some of us think is more appropriate than the current system are not excluded. The second topic on which the debate revolved is the so-called quotas, women or men, in practice of course mainly women's quotas. From this general debate it was possible to conclude that this solution was a solution that everyone, without exception, favoured. However, in the discussions of nuances, especially in the coalition, it was a loud recognition that feelings about quotas were mixed. In fact, even those who advocate greater participation of women in politics and elections and in parliament, we have two feelings about quotas, because we know that these quotas are still some kind of forced administrative measure, that they are far too small to actually achieve a greater role for women in political life. That they can be interpreted even as underestimating women, in the sense that we are not so equal and equal that we cannot guarantee this equality without explicitly writing it into the law, or even, as mentioned today, that the obvious may appear, these Members were elected not because of their quality, but because they brought you quotas. These feelings are mixed, we have to admit that. We are also all aware that this measure, although administrative, can have an impact on cultural improvement, that it can fix the situation and that it has become a European standard to be followed by Slovenia. However, I would like to mention in particular as an argument against the perception that these shares are too small. So far, this standard is nothing at this point, so at this point we have no quotas in the law; which means that this government and this coalition are proposing to the National Assembly for the first time even quotas in the electoral law for the National Assembly. It should also be said that for a large majority of parliamentary and other parties, this quota will mean raising the standard. Those who have already reached or exceeded this quota can go even higher in the future, even to a higher standard, but the achievement will be that those parties who are below this standard will have to raise their percentage of candidates. The question of the Director of the State Election Commission or the Secretary of the Republic Election Commission may have been raised from peripheral issues. Its status is analogous to that of directors in the state administration, with the difference that it is not appointed by the government or dissolved by the government, but by the State Election Commission. These constant instigations that the legal possibility of discharge without the guilt procedure is intended for political discharges and political cleansings, and I must say this, but I am tired. The deadline set by the law has also expired, the results and the actual situation is well known, there has been such a resolution in eight cases, I know all eight, and I can assure you in no way was the political solution. So I think it's time to stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters who also wanted to have a say. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Two have already been reported: Dr Slavko Gaber, Mrs Maria Pozsonec, Mrs Potrata, Mr Pece and Zagorac. Mr. Sok and Kangler. All registered are available for 5 minutes - each. Please, Dr. Slavko Gaber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to touch two, three things from today's debate. I will start by thematicising I think that today's most frequent debate on the subject is the issue of quotas. The Minister has now said that some of the Members could have been told that this speech was here if it had been chosen for quotas. I think it's right for me to make this very clear. After what is proposed, even if we raise this by 5% more points up, the proportions that each sex has to reach on the list will still not be chosen for quotas. Members of the next National Assembly will sit here for the votes they will receive. What we're talking about in quotas is putting people on lists, it's just that someone gets a chance to vote on it. It's not at least in my eyes that we should achieve extreme equality, I don't know, half-and-half or anything like that. What's probably bothering everyone is that women in this national council are just for a sample. It is so obvious that something is wrong - from this. There's nothing wrong with quotas, I'm sure that's why not, because there's something seriously wrong with the system that we have now that Parliament's occupation is what it is. And I would also like to agree with the Minister that it is most likely excessive to fear that there is also an opportunity for political change here, and I would also agree with him on the basic point. Indeed, it is time to stop talking about political change, but as soon as political change is over. For we have not yet ceased in this country, and here some great credit is due to the fact that there are indeed as many of these as there is. Let me finish this one more time with a simple call. Today, the discussion showed where are the fields in which it is possible to look for opportunities to upgrade this system. I would very much like to, because I appreciate the Minister's willingness to see that the law is being built up to think about it. There are some points where we can move forward and if we really do this, it will be a good sign for something else in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u79	Mrs. Maria Pozsonec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u80	Good-bye, everybody! I would like to briefly point out the conduct of the national elections. Since independence, there has been one type of ranking and scoring, which is difficult to understand, and members of the nation are not satisfied with it. I therefore propose that the possibility of different national elections be considered. I'd suggest a majority system if I could. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u81	The word is given by Master Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u82	Thank you. I will discuss quotas again, for a simple reason, because I think it is necessary to stress once again that we are talking about the possibility of running and the opportunity to choose. What the elections show is influenced by a variety of factors, so it is impossible to discuss in a way: because you had the opportunity, but you did not choose - because there was no choice. For I believe, however, that women are political beings with a political conviction and that we also decide women not only by sex, but also by what women represent in terms of their political orientation, their views and preferences. And that is why I advocate quotas because quotas allow for more candidates and greater choice between different candidates. By the time more women get a chance to run, they will be able to make even a smoldering, not only by political conviction, but also by age, as was discussed today, that they should ensure greater representation of younger candidates and candidates. I agree with the Minister that the inclusion of 35% or 40% of the quota in the law is too small for actually elected representatives to be more, in this case women. But I wonder - or I don't like this kind of debate, what if it were, but I would ask a rhetorical question. If this measure, a better candidate, were followed by some other positive measures known to some countries, I ask whether some parties' representatives would still argue that women do not want to enter into politics if they did not take measures such as France, for example, that customers should pay for penals if they do not reach a certain structure or some other positive measure. So this is, you know, what it's like to be prepared or unprepared, a question that I wouldn't just hope to answer on behalf of the Slovenian electoral body, especially because of this, because public opinion research - and I don't want to absolve them again - but it confirms that people do not think that women are adequately present in politics. Given the public opinion's pressure to attribute that we have changed the electoral law to the European Parliament, as we have changed it, although some at the time had a lot of doubts as to whether this could be done or not, since this law was amended before we amended the provision of Article 43 of the Constitution. And I could even list cases for that. Of course, I am pleased and therefore support the amendment of the law that there will now be at least something, not as much as I would like it to be, but all of this can only be introduced now that the law can also be relied on to change the constitution. And a consensus in policy between the coalition and the opposition is needed to change electoral legislation. It is therefore right to find out, however, that we are ready or finally mature for such changes, which may cause some discomfort, but everything in politics is a game, elections are a game. And also the quota still leaves the open competition within the client candidate lists. So believe me, there's no need to worry that women should feel humiliated if they're elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u83	Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u84	Your Honors are here! One more time. I don't want to say that this monotonous debate over various years or the same debate is boring. However, I am disappointed with the Minister's response, which, on the one hand, offers us, at least in my opinion, a rather inefficient or ineffective measure, i.e. the adoption of quotas in the area that will not lead to the desired result. However, if you did not respond to the initiative to amend the Government Act and to actually join that measure which, at the moment, during the mandate, would not even have to wait for the mandate, but would put those most important executive functions in our country into the hands of women's representatives in a higher, much higher relationship than today. However, you probably know that the relationship within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has always been lower than in Parliament. Therefore, at least according to my assessment, measures should be implemented in the first phase within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within the executive branch of the Authority, where, if I use the words of some other Members, to new reflections, to a better intellect, provided that the so-called quotas are introduced also within the framework of the members and members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I am sorry that, in the framework of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of this kind, I cannot propose to the National Assembly, so that, at the time of the adoption of this Act, it would also consider a decision ordering the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare a new law on government. The fact is, the rules of procedure don't allow me to do that. But on the other hand, and on the other hand, if we come from listening to the Members and Members who have given it during today's debate, Mr Minister, I see no reason why we should not approach it, and also from the MRIs it will be clear that such a change, to which I believe you are also trying, given that you have written this law, which does not otherwise touch you as a representative of the government, but you have only opened another front, which is very far away from you, prepare a novelty of this law. It can be by the same hoof as the European Parliament's electoral law, not least the law on elections to local communities and the law that you have now written or your close associates, the law on elections to the National Assembly. In short, the same idea as here, only if it were incorporated into the law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its lifetime would be much closer or closer to birth, the result, the solution would be much closer than it is now when I wait for 2008 or its full design in the coming mandates. So during the course of the mandate, we would have come to this measure, which we are defending, I think that all the debaters we have spoken here today. I also individually think that a fresh, new wind within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would lead this country forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u85	Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable present. One or one of the pronouns or forerunners cited three basic points as the reasons for the adoption of this law. The first point between the three was that the law had approached the electorate and, as a reason why it had approached the electorate, the fact that the time limit for receiving the ballots had been extended by mail was said to be the ballots from abroad. I think that this is a very bad reason for all of us who have been in this house for some time, either as Members or otherwise, to say that every governing structure is making a marriage by its own destiny or closer to its neighbor. Last but not least, they know who and where those ballots come from by mail, who decide how many Members or whether one party will have one more or one fewer Member. A few words were also said about Point 2, which is that the elections would be more transparent and there would be fewer violations, possible violations that we do not know in Slovenia, that is, the transparent boxes, which I must say I also support the introduction of those in order to cast aside any doubt or suspicion of any possibility of abuse. And the third point was so-called - or you like to call them women's quotas, I'm just going to call them 'the percentages you've legalised'. A few words were said about the male ego. I hope this man's ego was also meant for your client, not just for others, given that the largest government party has a percentage among the government's least represented women. Some have also said that the law or the introduction of quotas is an incentive for women to go into politics. I cannot agree with myself that the legal provision can be an incentive. The legal provision, ladies and gentlemen, is a bond, an obligation, not an incentive. So if you don't fulfil this bond, you can't run, it's not an incentive, it's a certain obligation. And last but not least, article 43 of the Constitution second paragraph "every citizen who has turned 18 has the right to vote and be loved". This article has also provided an opportunity for all women's quotas to do so to date. And I believe myself, although I believe that I naively believe that all of you today who are defending this, who consider it an incentive, have done so in previous elections, given that this is discussed for 9 or 11 years. But unfortunately, the electorate and the electorate decided that in this House today is not a percentage of 50:50, but a certain other percentage. I congratulate all the women elected to this Parliament on having so much money to perform in the elections. But as advocates of these quotas, these 50:50, I believe, but I will also see if you have really taken this into account or if today you are only saying to a great extent that this would be right, but then you could not take this into account, even though the constitution gives you this possibility. And last but not least, no matter how much we can close our eyes today, we know that various stakeholders are establishing such and different political parties. We also have a client of women and a client of men. Do you not think that you will force this client to set a quota for women - otherwise I do not know the man who would join this party, regardless of the program - that he must have 25% of the men on this list or vice versa, regardless of gender. Each party shall, at its own request, by its own discretion, by interest or programme, be included in a particular party. Last time we were here six months ago, we were defending the same-sex partners. Also, same-sex partners, gays, gays, lesbians, whatever you call them, can set up their customers. But let me know, or show me a woman who'll go to the gay list! She's not here! The Constitution makes it possible. All you're saying today about this being an incentive is simply throwing sand in your eyes. The possibility of equal representation of women and men on individual political lists has been or has already been enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u87	Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with a co-worker! True, this law brings many good solutions; it did not have to be completely rewritten, but it did need to be corrected to the extent possible at this time. It is true, however, that it does not contain what some - in particular, I have listened to the representatives of the LDS - have warned, and this is that it has not touched the part where the Constitution of 2000 stated that the electorate would have a major influence in the elections. In other words, he did not intervene in removing the constituencies, so at the level of the electoral units, he gave lists of candidates where the electorate and the electorate would have the opportunity to vote with a preferential vote. We had no problem with this in New Slovenia at the time, and we supported it as a then opposition party. It is true, however, that the ruling coalition did not vote in full for such a proposal. Even today, I remember the leader of the then largest LDS party, when it was necessary to vote, his cell rang and he left the Assembly Hall and did not vote in favour of such a solution. Therefore, it is also difficult to understand today that the LDS representatives here are here pointing out the most; which they themselves could not enforce, should now be implemented by another government coalition, which also does not have the majority required; we say we do not have the votes to be able to do so. As far as quotas are concerned, I will give my personal opinion. I also believe that this matter is a major demagogic thing, which virtually all of us in Europe have inherited. Look, we don't have any quota laws in areas where women are already in the majority today, such as the judiciary, journalism, education, at least in primary school, and where, even in health care - without any quotas. But we're going to get them into politics with the law, and we're going to say you have to. By the way, my wife says that for nothing in the world, I wouldn't do what I do. And I can't imagine what our family would look like if she was as mad as I am. I'm just letting some women think about it differently, and thank God, but also let some other women think differently in this country than you think. We don't have a problem with doing this with some law on these quotas, then let it go gradually, but if we do this policy, I would say, more human, more human, then I believe that women will be happy to go into it. And once again, in New Slovenia they have no problem, not at the state level or at the local level. And I can remind you that when we strongly supported a woman for the president of the country who could set an example for women to make that choice, you were some of the women on the left against this lady who wrote Barbara Brezigar, and that was very strong. You did everything you could to prevent a woman from becoming president in this country. So we're not ready for this move, we're still running out of time. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Thank you very much, we usually ask the ministers a question, you now ask me a question - why didn't we confirm it? [[...]] Because we probably didn't trust her enough, because - you think it's funny. I can just love the ones I love. How are you gonna make me vote for someone I just don't want? [[...]] [[Well, that's it.]] But I'm telling you woman visa woman, but no, you're asking me why as a man I didn't support some candidate. I answered your question. This law, as I said before, has many other good suggestions and is not just what some of you mentioned. Here is another very good solution, this is the solution to voting through an empty ballot, I think it will make it very easy for many who vote abroad and live around the world - and I hope that on this basis the greater participation of these people who live around the world and have the right to vote, with all the procedures in the past, will make this difficult for them. However, it will still be necessary to amend the electoral law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u89	Mr. Franz Kangler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. It's interesting to hear some of my previous interlocutors. I must say that in some segments I also agree with my colleague Soko, but I would like to emphasise the following. I expect the minister to give me an answer to my question. Do you have any analyses and percentages of the last state-run elections, how many of the parliamentary parties have women run on their lists? I personally believe that regardless of what quotas we will adopt and write into the law, that in most parliamentary parties have adhered to this aspect, that they have taken into account and that they have given women the opportunity and opportunities to try their career on the political path as well. I know some parliamentary parties who are here in Parliament, but I am not talking about mine, which, after a list and review of candidates in the 88 constituencies, we can find that they have come close to such a percentage. That is why I think it is too much for every word in this place to speak so thoroughly and substantively about so-called women's quotas. This is where my friend Zagorac said, "What about the one where only women run?" Are we going to record that they have to have a second quota, a quota of men? Professionals in the Republic of Slovenia are different and different, where women are more difficult to decide for such professions because of such or other obligations. Surely I, too, would be pleased to see a broad range of women in this place as one of you fellow Members of Parliament because of such or other political opinion. And secondly, I would also like to see the President of the country come to the head of the country once, given the last elections that have been, we have the President of the country, which does not mean that we cannot have the President of the country. How do we write it down? In the law on the election of the president of the state, that there must also be 3.5%, 10% or 30% of women candidates? The problem is that the majority elections are for the president of the country, and it must also be courage and also the will and support to decide on this. Someone mentioned that the law also entails voting by post and, above all, that it is apparent that these are voices coming from abroad for certain political options. I am sure that the post elections do not jeopardise the political system or the political parties or parliamentary parties in Parliament. However, the fact is that the State of the Republic of Slovenia must ensure that every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, who is on a temporary or permanent basis abroad, who lives permanently abroad and has the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia, has the opportunity and opportunity to vote and to participate in the elections. This must be ensured by the State. I speak for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and know who they are and what they are, so I am sure that when we hear Minister Virant, what percentage have Parliamentary parties sitting here today in Parliament, women on their lists, we will be able to find that political parties have just taken into account and that such quotas as they propose are hardly necessary. Secondly, what I would like to point out is that I myself might wish - and here my colleague Peca is right, but he says, in the executive branch of the government, that the government could see to it that more functions are available to both ministers, secretaries of state, directors of Directorates and so forth can be shared among the so-called women's quotas. There is an opportunity and an opportunity for the executive branch of power to do so, which strives that we, who pass the electoral law to the National Assembly, follow such changes. I will personally, once again, support these changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u91	I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - Defence of the motion for a resolution on the transport policy of the Republic of Slovenia. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I would like to give the floor to a representative of the government, but I find that the Minister is coming to the hall, so I ask a representative of the government, Mr Mag. Janez Christmas to provide an additional explanation of the motion for a resolution. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u92	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and honourable Members. In July 2005, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a motion for a resolution on the transport policy of the Republic of Slovenia and forwarded it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 14th meeting, on 12.4.2006, the Transport Committee of the National Assembly considered the motion for a resolution and adopted it. The resolution on the transport policy of the Republic of Slovenia in a modern, short and robust way in the starting, vision, objectives and measures sets out the basic orientations of the transport policy for the future. The main indicators of transport policies recorded are mobility, accessibility and environmental and safety protection, economic development, optimal resource utilisation, intermodality, interoperability and balance between transport systems. In the drafting of the resolution, we have taken full account of the principles of sustainable development and have consistently written down the objectives and measures of transport policy, which are equivalent, simultaneous and independent in addressing all three dimensions of sustainable development: economy, society and the environment. The main objectives of transport policy are thus to achieve social optimism in the work relating to the transport sector, increase transport safety and security, efficient energy consumption and the clean environment. From an ecological point of view, transport policy operators should allow the development of new transport techniques and technologies that will be less burdensome for the environment and promote the use of more cost-effective and environmentally-friendly vehicles. The recorded vision of mobility of the population in Slovenia responds to the unconstitutional development of public passenger transport in the spirit of public interest in this area, which is also linked to social and environmental reasons. The main carriers of public passenger transport to bus and rail carriers are now subject to two different laws and two operators which are responsible for the conduct of the economic public service. This area needs to be harmonised and passengers brought up in an intermodal manner for the use of passenger transport. Sustainable development must also be based on the supply of the economy. In the interest of the State, the development and competitiveness of transport companies, which will deliver their services in a qualitative and efficient manner, has increased additional values and innovation, as a major competitive fight in the European transport market forces companies to rationalise their business and fight for survival. Measures will be put in place to ensure the sustainable and sustainable development of Slovenian road freight transport, which will encourage the development of such services. From an economic point of view, we foresee the integration of private capital into the development of transport infrastructure, which needs to be integrated wherever private initiatives can achieve the desired results and thus relieve public finances. In transport policy measures, we foresee setting up a system for charging infrastructure usages that will be market-based. Regulations and other acts should primarily regulate the conditions for the development of a quality market structure in the field of transport. By building transport infrastructure, suitable infrastructure, both maritime and port arrangements, as well as rail and road infrastructures, Slovenia wants to enable current and safe transport to and through the country, both to Slovenia and to foreign carriers, and to strengthen the role of rail and maritime transport. The free market economy, the provision of comprehensive logistics services and administrative regulation and the non-inhibition of traffic will encourage the development of the sector and the competitiveness of Slovenian carriers. The Resolution on Transport Policy of the Republic of Slovenia is, of course, a key document in the field of transport policy. In accordance with the definitions, objectives and guidelines of this transport policy, the Ministry of Transport will draw up appropriate regulations, national programmes and other acts for its implementation. On the other hand, the government will plan, implement and evaluate individual projects and adapt transport policy measures to the outcome of evaluation reports. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Transport Committee as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Frank Kangler, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At its 14th meeting, on 12.4.2006, the Committee of the National Transport Assembly considered a motion for a resolution on the transport policy of the Republic of Slovenia, which had been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the procedure for the national assembly. The meeting was attended by representatives of the proposer, the motion for a resolution, such as representatives of Darsa, the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Slovenia, the Coordination of the United Transporters of Slovenia, the Coalition for Sustainable Policy, Transport Policy, Cyprus, and representatives of the legislative and legal service. Introductoryly, the Minister of Transport mag. Janez Bozič informed members that the Republic of Slovenia, as a full member of the European Union, is facing the processes of a global organisation when the distance between countries is decreasing and the mobility of people, goods and capital is increasing, borders are disappearing and we are witnessing increasing integration. The European Union, with a White Paper on Transport, is responding to the requirements of modernisation, liberalisation and integration of existing transport systems in operation. The decisions made today will determine the conditions of the economy and the lives of people for at least a few decades. With Slovenia's entry into the Union, when the situation has finally matured, when it is necessary to ensure the uniform functioning of all transport systems at the same time, it will only be possible to offer services on the passenger and freight market that will be long-term acceptable and sustainable for Slovenia. The document identifies the starting points, objectives, measures to achieve the objectives and key transport policy holders. In order to implement this document, the Government will draw up an implementing document setting out measurable and concrete objectives and activities to achieve their responsibilities and responsibilities, in particular activities with a financial and time perspective. Transport is the basis for the economic development of the country and is therefore one of the fundamental inter-sectoral communications. The preparation of the Resolution on Transport Policy was requested in the National Assembly in the previous mandate period. Several attempts and even proposals for a transport development policy have been prepared, but they have not had a debate and adoption in the National Assembly. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly notes that the proposed Resolution on Transport Policy is based on a very principled level, which raises the question of whether the baselines, objectives and measures for the development of transport systems are appropriate or sufficient basis for the establishment of national programmes that specify guidance and set priorities from each transport system. In this regard, it considers that it would suggest, in particular, a separate recording of the measures envisaged in each area and a time-frame for defining them, as well as indicating possible resources for the implementation of the policy presented. In the context of the general debate, the members of the Committee expressed their satisfaction that the Republic of Slovenia would adopt a resolution on transport policy, which is a cover document in the field of transport and responds to the requirements of modernisation, liberalisation and integration of existing transport systems into an operational whole. They considered that each type of transport needed to be integrated and linked and ensured a more important role for rail transport and modernisation and the upgrading of rail infrastructure. In the general debate, however, critical views were expressed on the document submitted as too general, which cannot be complemented by amendments. They considered that there were no tangible measures to prepare implementing documents in specific areas of transport. There are no specific tasks with specific deadlines and intended resources for them. Therefore, the members of the Committee of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and of the Slovenian National Party decided not to take part in the discussion and decision on proposals to complement the motion for a resolution on transport policy. At the conclusion of the general debate, the Transport Committee decided that the proposal for a resolution on transport policy was appropriate for further consideration. The Committee then moved to a second reading of the motion for a resolution on the transport policy of the Republic of Slovenia. No amendments were tabled within the time limit set for the motion for a resolution, but some amendments were adopted by the Committee on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Transport Committee voted on and adopted all parts of the motion for a resolution together. Subject to the amendments adopted, a proposal for a resolution on the transport policy of the Republic of Slovenia, which is an integral part of this report, is prepared and supplemented in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor, on behalf of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and honourable Members! In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that Slovenia can objectively acquire developmental advantages because of its strategic position, if there is meaningful, systematic and orderly development, not only of the road and rail system, but of all entities in the mosaic we call transport. In any event, account must be taken of the economic, environmental, security, sociological and political aspects of domestic and international transport. We are aware that globalisation, among other things, reduces the distance between people and dramatically increases the mobility of people, goods and capital. I am confident, and so my colleagues and colleagues in the New Slovenia Group, that this meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is of particular importance by addressing the motion for a resolution on the transport policy of the Republic of Slovenia. This meeting of the National Assembly with this content is given, we could say, a historic character, because we will adopt, I am sure, today for the first time in the 15-year existence of the State of Slovenia after many attempts, but never with sufficient political will, a resolution on the transport policy of the Republic of Slovenia. Today's decisions on transport policy will determine the business of the Slovenian economy, determine life and people deep into the future. In our view, the resolution defines qualitatively the starting points, objectives and measures to achieve these objectives and key transport policy holders. The resolution is, of course, by definition not an implementing document. We do not expect this document to contain specific implementing elements. However, we expect that this document will be followed by more specific documents that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will bring to this National Assembly. The resolution is therefore a cover document followed by implementing acts, programmes and projects that will implement the transport policy pursued at tactically operational level. These activities will require the government to plan, implement and evaluate, and to adapt transport policy measures to the outcome of evaluation reports. The objectives of these documents will be established according to the criteria of their measurement, verifiability, comparability and reality. Let me give you an example. The resolution sets out a general objective: to increase transport safety and security. In the national road safety programme, which is one of the first strategic implementation plans, we will find a concrete objective. The most important will be defined as follows: In the Republic of Slovenia we must not allow more than 157 people to die in traffic accidents by the end of 2010. This objective will also be pursued by other sub-targets in the area of speed, alcohol, pedestrian safety and so on. In New Slovenia, we expect the National Road Safety Programme to be discussed by the National Assembly this year. The resolution takes into account the unrestrained process of globalisation, takes into account that we are living in time and I hope that we will live at a time when there will be no more borders when integration is in full swing and this situation brings new traffic flows or redefines traffic flows, particularly in land transport or more precisely road transport. The document is needed and therefore, in our view, cannot be delayed by adoption. However, the country must have a framework which means national transport policy. To illustrate, I would like to tell you, my fellow Members, what can happen and unfortunately happens if the country does not have a transport policy or if the country has an equal transport policy. I will not discuss the political, even less in the political tone. I will talk about the specific numbers that I stand for and that are calculated on the basis of a competent count of freight traffic on our eastern window into the world, as we like to say. All I'm going to talk about is freight traffic on the street section from the center of the country to the east or east to the center. I would like to present to you, in plastic terms, an example of a stalemate policy, a transport policy that leads to a traffic collapse. Today, in principle, I will not talk about the number of trucks entering or leaving the country every day or hour at the border crossing of the Long Village. You're familiar with this information anyway. However, I would like to present to you the fragrant results of a simple account that shows that at one km of road G-13, this is Lendava - Maribor, these trucks consume or burn thousands of litres of fuel a day. For an easier performance, only transit freight burns one liter of fuel per metre of road, every day. Let the health and nature - care profession and other professions indicate the impact on the environment and, of course, on the health of the people living here. Today, I will also not talk about the consequences of the objects that have sustained and irreparable damage caused by strong vibrations. I want to be objective and I want to believe that Slovenia's entry into the European Union has redefined traffic flows two years ago and that no one could predict how these traffic flows will be redefined and in which directions we will experience an enormous increase in traffic. I also believe that the only solution to this problem is the only one, but I know that there are quite a few in Slovenia, of course, the early construction of the highway. Only then will criminal acts that threaten the population on that road be stopped. In the New Slovenia Group, we commend Slovenian transport policy planners, who also took into account the principles of sustainable development. Consistently, the objectives and measures of transport policy have been written down, which address all three dimensions of sustainable development, economy, society and the environment in an equal, simultaneous and independent manner. The main objectives of transport policy are thus to achieve social optimism in the work relating to the transport sector, to increase transport safety and to efficient energy consumption and to the clean environment. From an ecological point of view, transport policy operators should enable the development of new transport techniques and technologies that will be less burdensome for the environment and promote the use of more cost-effective and environmentally-friendly vehicles. However, with changed social customs and economic dynamics in Slovenia, citizens need to be aware of the importance of sustainable development, the role of transport and its operation and the optimal use of it. Public interest in ensuring the mobility of the population is also linked to social and environmental reasons. Increasing the well-being of the people of Slovenia and also of the European Union is our common goal. Not only that, but the optimal burden of users is important. In other words, the country must provide transport services on the market and invest in the development of transport infrastructure only to the extent that it is more efficient than the private sector. If a private sector can provide a service cheaper and more efficient than the state, then it is pointless to spend budgetary resources on such services and thus burden taxpayers. Wherever the country is more efficient than the private sector, it is clear that the state will play its part. Finally, I would like to highlight the positive opinion of the New Slovenia Group on the motion for a resolution on the transport policy of the Republic of Slovenia, which we are considering today. The resolution touches all dimensions of transport with a sense of solutions to complex issues, both from the point of view of the citizen who wants to realize his value and the right to mobility, as well as from the point of view of the economy that wants reliable and rapid care, and especially from the point of view of the preservation of the environment for our craftsmen. According to the New Slovenia Group, the resolution on the transport policy of the Republic of Slovenia is an appropriate compromise and we will therefore support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Kangler has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, Minister! We will be very pleased to support the document we are adopting today in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, which we are talking about, the so-called Resolution on Transport Policy of the Republic of Slovenia. Although some political options or individuals are not satisfied with the content of this document, we believe in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that the time has finally come for us, despite great efforts, and this recognition by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Minister that we have the opportunity and opportunity to obtain such a document, the first such document is also in our country. We must not ignore the fact that the Republic of Slovenia is a member of the European Union, that the borders have fallen, that we are part of the economic pulse, not anymore in the Balkans, but above all within the European Union. Given the economic momentum and the European market, it is very important that all sectors of transport policy within the Republic of Slovenia adapt primarily to these trends within Europe, and also to those that are outside European integration, beyond those borders where countries are primarily waiting and working as candidates or candidates for membership of the European Union. We must not neglect this segment, so it is important that Slovenia has a legal basis, a document that speaks about transport policy. On the basis of such a document, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia may also, through a legislative body in the National Assembly, prepare programmes, legislative and regulatory activities, so that we can follow both the European and the economic pulses, which have any direct impact on the Slovenian situation. In particular, the resolution discusses the transport policy of both passenger and freight transport in the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that passenger traffic can be divided into road, air and rail. It is essential that a major emphasis within this document is placed on the rehabilitation and adaptation of Slovenian railways to the situation of the European market. It is important that Slovenian railways cannot follow developments if other transport infrastructure is not directly and closely linked to rail infrastructure. The use of infrastructure is very important because Slovenia, in the field of road transport, in particular in the construction of the highway cross and the programme, has leased several billion credits for the implementation and completion of such projects. Loans will be paid mainly by collecting benefits for all state infrastructure, both in the area of the motorway programme and in the field of the railway programme and also in certain other programmes. This document is also the basis for the development of the so-called third development axis, which we pay a lot of attention to in the Slovenian People's Party Group. However, because the third development axis, from north to south, also to east and west, also combines some other Slovenian places, which are somewhat remote from the highway program and the highway cross. The third development axis provides an opportunity and an opportunity for economic development in these areas where it is intended to be covered. We must not neglect that Slovenia, as such, is a very transit country and it is also important to adapt and give the opportunity and opportunity to develop air transport in the Republic of Slovenia. In the field of aviation, much will have to be done by the Government, and it is certain that a resolution on the transport policy of the Republic of Slovenia is also a basis for the development of this transport. Hereinafter, individual members of the parliamentary groups will also be identified by their fellow Members to individual points within the Resolution on Transport Policy, so allow me to conclude with the presentation of the Group of Members, and I am pleased to point out that the document, the Resolution on Transport Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, will be mentioned in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, will be unanimously supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The transport policy enshrined in the resolution requires a serious approach from all of us, and above all from the coalition to listen to the opposition's arguments. Of course that didn't happen. And if I sum up all the essential factors in this area, what they wrote, I would first refer to the statements of Prof. Dr. Mark Pavliha, who wrote that scientific, technological and social progress and globalisation processes require coordinated transport management and transport policy development strategy with synergies on economic and social and sustainable development. Surely this material does not contain that resolution. For a sustainable policy, the Coalition stated that in the public debate on the motion for a resolution, there were no real valid reasons for accepting that the resolution was too general and that it did not have principles. The coordination of Slovenia's Joint Automobiles states that the resolution may be too general to contribute anything to the speedy resolution of transport problems or their development. The Chamber of Economics considers that the motion for a resolution is weak and, above all, too general, that it is at a very principled level and that Slovenia will sooner be in harm's way than a benefit. These are the written views. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party is that the proposal for a resolution on the transport policy of Slovenia is weak, too general, does not cover the actual situation, does not set concrete actions and deadlines for the implementation of individual measures, there is no timetable for which the period is to be adopted; the government should specify the implementation measures but does not; there is no indication of concrete state aid for individual projects; the resolution does not cover an integrated transport system; it only refers to the modernisation of transport infrastructure. There are no long-term, no short-term objectives, no implementing service providers, no financial framework. This is true and the opinion of the Slovenian National Party is that in fact this very nicely written file at the level of secondary education, rather in disgrace to the Ministry than in pride. The result, which is already visible today and is greater from day to day, is economic damage. No one wonders who will be responsible for the loss of the economy, which is an hour-to-hour increase. I have repeatedly reminded the Minister of this and also publicly urged him to identify himself as taking on part of his responsibility. The best and most promising projects, which Europe places among the first projects, are on the sidelines. In fact, we should start the second track projects in 2004, the government says it will be fine if we start in 2008. Interestingly, Europe is also earmarking funds for this. The port of Koper has a series of black-built objects and is essentially impossible to further expand because there is insufficient government attention. When it comes to comparisons between other countries, we can look at Croatia, which has been at war, and we can see that it is making better connections with the east of Europe in the railway and also in the road, while we are stagnation. In the road area, we have earmarked substantial funds for the development of the highway programme, so state roads are in bulk. Nor do I see a healthy logic, why we did not have a sustainable purpose and equitable development, and we provided half a billion euros for railways and half a billion for roads, and we would run both projects in parallel. After all, the shortcomings seen in the fast - prepared documents are also evident in the fact that roads require to be measuredly larger human sacrifices. There are always more road users who end tragically. Death victims are growing because the state roads are almost unsupportable. People's transport, as I have already mentioned, should be updated by the state and listen to all those experts who are talking about what should be done in this area. On air transport we can see, at least members of the committee, because we have come to know this issue that wishes, desires and strategic plans are written only in the form of requests. A fine example is the Maribor airport. We were there, they asked us, in two years nothing happened, no less than nothing. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the centralised vital parts of European governance, possibly the railway agency, will be moved to other frameworks, central. This will only build what is profitable for some, which is, of course, expressed in large budget sums and where money is most easily collected. It would be interesting to know where all the money from the highway program ends up. We know that there is almost no contract that would not have large-scale annexes at the time of signature of the basic contract. Due to the above and, of course, due to the fact that the opposition's arguments were not taken into account and neither to the profession, Slovenia's national party does not want to participate in the discussion on this matter and we predict obstruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Pozsonec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Mr. Minister, with colleagues and greetings to all colleagues and colleagues! The overall objectives of transport policy at national level are prioritized as follows: firstly, achieving social optimism in the work relating to the transport sector, secondly, increasing transport safety and security, thirdly, efficient energy consumption and clean environment, fourthly, increasing the scope and quality of public passenger, road and rail transport, fifthly, coordinated operation of the entire transport system, sixthly, setting up the architecture of intelligent transport systems with the application of regional, national and European specificities, seventhly, ensuring the necessary transport infrastructure for both land and sea transport, which will follow the principles of sustainable and coherent regional development, eighthly, ensuring reliable, safe, competitive and environmentally friendly transport in freight and passenger transport, ninthly, optimal exploitation of available sources. And so he could continue. It follows from the above that the country must also take care of individual parts of the country with transport policy. It must ensure that the quality of life, even on a track such as the G3, is adequate for a healthy environment and that it is possible for people to live there or to live in a coherent regional development, must be aligned with smart and fair transport policies and with the consistent development of transport infrastructure. From an economic point of view, each part of the country should be linked to the railway centre, including the north-eastern part of Slovenia, on the other rail route, and one of the main tasks is to electrify the line to the Hungarian border, since it is ineffective that you cannot reach Ljubljana from Murska Sobota for less than three hours by train. It is also time to think more boldly about air traffic. I think that, at the airport of Maribor, it is also necessary to think about the Rackian airport, which would allow links to the new airport in Sharvar, Hungary, so that it would open the door to the east and be invaluable in the development of medical tourism. I mean "pannonic terminos." Moreover, the need to provide for the density of public transport, so that even those who do not drive a car would be mobile. You can't come from Lendava to Ljubljana by bus anymore because there aren't any buses. I believe that the resolution has been put in place well, only that it should be kept in writing. In the past, a thousand and once during the execution was violated, altered without anyone being responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Mr. Yelen, I apologize for making a leap.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Minister. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the Government's proposal for a resolution on the transport policy of the Republic of Slovenia. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that this government document is a key document of Slovenian transport policy, as it establishes the fundamental sustainability of Slovenian transport development within the social, environmental and economic dimensions. From the perspective of the time dimension, our development of transport certainly requires adaptation, constant complementing or upgrading, the universally responsible behaviour of users and participants. We are aware that the principles must be followed by trends and development visions. The resolution thus proposed in our conduct provides or provides a framework for the fundamental direction of future transport policy in terms of mobility of people, goods, transport infrastructure arrangements, environmental protection, greater security and protection of all participants in transport, the development of both economic and regional, maximum use of resources and, last but not least, the balance of international links. The latter, i.e. the development of transport infrastructure, dictates the modernisation of the system in terms of international unity and coherence. In particular, it seems important to us the so-called everyday road safety, since we know that this area requires a fundamental transformation in terms of ensuring greater and better road safety, so a key road safety objective is set so that more than 157 people will not die by 2010. The main objective is to achieve a higher transport and environmental culture, efficiency and rationality of energy use, and, in economic terms, also the profitability of business under those 12 targets, according to the criterion of importance. The latter would like to point out that our conduct makes sense to invite a foreign partner or to involve the private sector in the development of transport infrastructure, as we could achieve better and better quality results in terms of the time component of implementation and, last but not least, the burden of public finances. When investing in transport infrastructure, the role of the State must be in a way that achieves the extent where it will be more effective than private capital. For such quality-oriented development in our DeSUS Group, we believe that it is necessary to liberalise the structure of the transport market from economy to administration and to allow for a faster flow of documentation regulation and implementation. The fact is that this policy is still in the domain of national policy, European transport policy is only for the very beginning, the introduction of the euro and vignette in general. This resolution has been given some indications as to the general content, in particular the objectives, but in the DeSUS Group, we are confident that the motion for a resolution is well-founded and well-founded on the basis of other binding provisions. At the same time, we draw attention to the closer cooperation of other ministries for the economy, finance, environment and local communities in order to ensure the efficiency and fair competition of implementation, greater public transport awareness and environmental protection in the future. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that the competent ministry must carry out its mission and allow for the coordinated, reliable and cost-effective functioning of the entire transport system, including by setting specific objectives within a certain period of time and rationalising the set. Members of the DeSUS will support this resolution because we believe that such a document should be adopted as soon as possible because it plans for the development of transport policy and mobility in the long term and sustainability of all components of users. However, the government should prepare implementing documents as soon as possible, which will also take into account environmental protection, spatial placement, demographic trends, the problems of peaceful transport, and the vision of society's development in a non-exploitary, low-entropic direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. In the introduction, I would like to stress in particular that we have not had such a document in Slovenia so far either in the previous country or in Slovenia alone. There have been several attempts to obtain such a document. The last was in 2004 when the former government adopted a proposal for this resolution on transport policy, which unfortunately did not see the adoption in the National Assembly. As a result, we did not have a systematic, planned area of this area, that individual transport subsystems developed according to one of their own logic, and that we cannot say in Slovenia that we had an organised policy, but that we had a sizable, anarchic one. If we looked at what was happening because of this in practice. There was too much emphasis on motorways, even if these were urgently needed and still needed, at the expense of state roads. If we look at the railway infrastructure, it is in a very bad condition and it is already blocking or even preventing the further development of the port of Koper and forces the cargo onto the roads. There is not only a second track problem, which should have been built by 2002 after the existing resolution on the national rail infrastructure development programme, but the problem is the whole fifth corridor. Nothing helps if we remove one narrow throat and many narrow throats remain in the corridor. But it's not just the fifth corridor, it's also the tenth corridor, it's a lot of other things. We have a toll system, which is no system that is unfair, which does not ensure that those who use motorways actually pay tolls or charges, depending on the actual mileage of this highway. In the field of public passenger transport, we have parallel lines of different car carriers or carriers, which are also partly or mostly co-financed from the state budget or in some cases from municipal budgets. We don't have some common ticket to not talking about some organised intermodal traffic. We do not have developed logistics centres, and because of the state of infrastructure, there is a great danger that transport flows will bypass us despite our very favourable geostrategic situation. We have three airports that haven't developed evenly. We don't have a bike track network and a footpath. We have an unscheduled area of peaceful transport, and I could mention it. This all shows that the adoption of such a document that we have today is necessary, so we will gladly support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Why was there no will in the past to accept such a document? Something was a problem of political will, and something about the fact that some were in a position to do so. To those who were better off in this irregular state, it was simply written on the skin that we simply do not have the documents to regulate this area in a comprehensive way. The second reason was that there had never been an agreement on whether the transport policy document should be more general or precise. Some advocated the principle that the Resolution on Transport Policy should set out everything in detail, precisely, for every mile of road, price, deadlines and so on, for five, ten, perhaps twenty years in advance. And because there were so many different approaches and views, we did not have such a document. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the importance, the weight of this document, so we also supported the public presentation, which meant that the process of adopting this document was somewhat delayed. However, I think that the presentation was useful, that we also heard a few comments, a lot of praise, as well as some useful proposals. After hearing on the working body, where several amendments have also been adopted, I think this document is quite appropriate for reception and that we have finally reached a modern, European-oriented document. As has already been said, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the motion for a resolution on transport policy for the following reasons: for the first time, because it also has an integrated European policy from the so-called White Paper; for the second time, because it follows the European directives, it is also in the spirit of the expectations expressed by the European Secretary of Transport and Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Jacques Barroso, when visiting Slovenia. The resolution also responds to the challenges of globalisation and to the changed role of transport in these modern circumstances. It also takes into account the geostrategic position of Slovenia at the intersection of the fifth and tenth trans-European corridor. In our opinion, the document is sufficiently general enough to allow for sufficient flexibility and rapid response in today's world of rapid changes in the follow-up to relevant national programmes and other implementing acts. On the other hand, it is specific enough to allow the coordinated development of individual transport subsystems and the achievement of the objectives set. The measures provide for the transfer of goods from road to rail. This is today, when our roads, highways are loaded with trucks with a very important measure and we strongly support it. We also support the fact that the resolution pays particular attention to public passenger transport. The next, which is very important, is that it foresees charging real utility costs on the basis of marginal social costs and thus encourages transport where these costs are lower. Environmental costs are also included here. It is also positive that it pays special attention to cycling routes, then on foot and promotes intermodality. It also enables the further development of the port of Koper and provides an appropriate role or opportunity for the development of air transport. It is important that the consequences of these measures are positive, as regards the clean environment, as far as energy consumption is concerned, in terms of increasing security, as regards population mobility and economic development. We therefore welcome the first such document in Slovenia alone, knowing that it is a cover document and therefore expect appropriate implementation programmes to be prepared in due course. We also expect that in the future, as for motorways, funds will be provided to ensure adequate funding for other transport or infrastructures. Here I am referring to all of these types of traffic, and I would particularly like to draw attention to the railway, because financially this supply is far the largest. We will support the resolution in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Mark Pavlich has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, Dr. Verlich, Master Vrčko, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! When Mr Janša proposed his new government a year and a half ago, Minister, he himself acknowledged that this was the best time, that he could not offer anything better right now. But some names, however, influenced trust and optimism. One of them must have been the Master of Christmas, both because of his education, if it was this one who suggested that it would be another minister who would be too highway or road minister, but, however, my experience was good during my short ministry. More. On 30 November 2004, Minister Bozič presented his programme well, in the programme, he tried to treat all transport sectors equally, and in relation to the transport resolution adopted for the first time in the history of independent Slovenia by the Government of the Master of Ropa on 15 July 2004, I quote: In any event, I know the document that I have been able to read in these days, and I can say that this is an extremely good basis for us to accept it as soon as possible in the procedure with the necessary modifications. Let me remind you that this is a document on the 62nd pages, 9th chapters, which is based both on existing strategic Slovenian documents and on European transport policy and "acquis communitaire" as a whole. A powerfully encouraging statement, and we even believed it. But 14 days later, the government in Parliament or in the legislative procedure withdraws the 2004 transport policy resolution and announces its document. This document was indeed adopted by the government last July, and a number of criticisms had already taken place in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, and we decided to propose constructively, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a public presentation of opinions. Again, at least a little bit of optimism shined on the sun when this proposal was so unexpectedly voted unanimously on the Transport Committee. Then we had a debate that lasted more than 4 hours, was visited by the profession, civil society, politics and could also be listed. And it's not true that we've heard some criticism here and there, but mostly we've been commended. Read the magnetogram that exists. Most of the time, we listened to the critics for four hours. I'll be specific. We were able to hear the criticism from the Sustainable Transport Policy Coalition, which brought together 9 environmental organisations. We heard criticism from the Transport Association at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. It was also a decisively critical association of drivers and mechanics of Slovenia or its individual members. Let me mention the association of drivers, pardon, the coordination of Slovenia's combined motorists. People with disabilities have been alerted in writing several times to their shortcomings. We heard professors, professors from the Faculty of Economics, Dean of the Faculty of Maritime and Transport, Prof. Yuri Kolenca, one of the rivers of experts in Slovenia, who has a doctorate in transport sciences and, last but not least, the State Council, the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, as well as the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, was very critical to transport policy. Perhaps I should say to the latter what is the red thread of all the comments we have on both the professions, politics and civil society. The Legislative and Legal Service points out that this policy is based on a very, very principled level and that it would indicate, in particular, a more specific description of the measures envisaged in each area and also, I stress, and also a time-bound definition. Also to indicate possible sources of resources for the implementation of the policy presented and then we proposed some more concrete comments, but unfortunately all the beans were against the wall. The four-hour summary of the debate can be summed up in the conclusion that this policy is too general, too loose, without concrete measures and deadlines for their implementation, and it is assumed that the applicant wishes to remain politically immune with such a document, that he simply does not want to take on any responsibility in the middle of his mandate. My colleague Milan Petek may have been the most picturesque and justifiably sharp when he declared that it was a document that was simply worthless. I could say the same thing myself, with a little more university and pedagogical jargon, and I'd say it's not enough seminars. What are our specific comments? Firstly, allow me to dissect transport policy as a seminar assignment, because as a more serious document I cannot, we are looking for a substantive indicator, a substantive indicator that will help us to go around or at least a little bit to the few pages where there are a few topics that have been introduced without order. With regard to the subject matter or systematics, the proposaler mixes up the issue in relation to the origin of transport policy, for example in the second chapter addressing transport infrastructure, security, mobility, then objectives. The third chapter is divided into general objectives and the area of passenger and freight transport and the latter into measures, for example, passenger and freight transport is unexpectedly joined by the area of transport infrastructure. It is also unclear to what extent the drafters of the resolution have taken into account the existing adopted documents. Of course, in some places the European transport policy has been mentioned, which by the way has just had a fundamental impact analysis in the first period. This transport policy has been created - Mr President, I would like to ask colleagues from Social Democracy if I can thank you very much. [[...]] This transport policy was created in 2000 and covers the period until 2010, which means that it is already partially obsolete. It cannot then mean an alpha and an omega of our document, which should be accepted by 2020, if not longer. It is unclear to what extent the resolution on the maritime direction of the Republic of Slovenia is taken into account. A document we only remember on 7 March when we celebrate the day of the Slovenian Maritime. To what extent the 2004 strategy for the spatial development of Slovenia is taken into account, the 2005 strategy for the development of Slovenia and could still be listed. In doing so, let me mention that, for example, the European Commission is preparing a Green Paper on Maritime which will be adopted in May 2006 and not even in this area. If we had waited 15 years for this document to be adopted, it would have been possible to wait a few months and to complete the existing document with all the comments we heard at the public presentation. By the way, it does not hold to the fact that the Slovenians had no transport policy. We had it at the end of the 1970s, which was created under the tactics of the current minister, Prof. Livia Jakomin, who was a reviewer later in the government of our transport policy, but that was not enough. In our view, too, the systemic role, the legal and systemic role of transport policy, should be more precisely carried out. We have a transport policy that is carried out in more detail through national programmes. But how and in what time frame? Where are your hands? During my ministry, a national programme in the field of state roads had been drafted, so to speak. So to speak, a national aviation programme in the maritime field. Where are these documents now? We're almost in the middle of a term. I would expect that the transport policy will at least indicate whether it will be within one year or the end of the mandate, which is once again proof that it does not wish to commit anyone. And what is really going to be in the eyes and what is the main flaw in this transport policy is the fact that almost no attention is given to environmental protection and health in transport. Let me say that the transport policy from the time of the Robbery Government included a special chapter 8 entitled Environmental and Health Protection. If we look at this document, we can find out exactly what it is about creating so-called environmental costs and distributing them, emissions of harmful gases, transport of dangerous substances, noise, use of space, distribution of external transport costs - everything is equipped, ladies and gentlemen, with tables, statistics and everything such a document must have. And that's just this chapter, the whole policy on 62 pages is so designed. This one doesn't have it. Why? Because this generality seems to fit someone. There is nothing about the specific needs of persons with different sensory, movemental or other disabilities. Let me admit here that transport policy in this area has also been weak since 2004, but this does not mean that we would not have taken these comments into account. People with disabilities have repeatedly warned us that it is not only the people in wheelchairs, but it is also the blind, the visually impaired, the deaf, the deaf, and others in our home who are neglected by such or other shortcomings. And if such infrastructure were to be planned in a timely manner, we would also save some costs. I've already told you about the marines that they've been treated poorly. Just like that, nothing about inland navigation. It is relatively irrelevant in Slovenia, but we have potential, especially in the field of tourism. What about shipping, shipping, shipping, logistics? And what disturbs is also a big gap between theory and practice. See, on the one hand, we can often see the importance of Luke Koper in the motion for a resolution, and on the other hand, we all know what is going on with these extremely important companies - they replace capable people, there are human resources cleanups, there is a third pier once positive, there is a negative, there is a second track on the side track, and there is another track on its track, and there is still time to list. By leading the Maritime Directorate a man who is more or less associated with the sea with only a name. Representatives of road hauliers have repeatedly warned that their transport activities should also leave more political space, as they correctly note that we are mostly talking only about infrastructure on roads. And that's true. It's easier to say as many cargo as possible and as many trucks as possible on the railways. Yeah, what are we gonna do about the roads? The roads will still be one of the fastest, best possible transport opportunities, of course in cooperation with railways or other transport industries. And that is why we are stressing container transport, stressing intermodality and always coming back again, including, for example, the third pier, whose fate is unknown at this time. More attention would be given to the participation of the Slovenian Ministry of Transport with other domestic administrative authorities and institutions - something small, however, is written in Chapter 5 - and in particular with the European Union. It is not enough to host high-level representatives of the Commission or Parliament or anyone else, it is a matter of working closely with the Directorate-General of the European Commission for Transport, the Committee of the European Parliament for Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism and other bodies. And let me draw your attention to another possibility that is more hypothetical at this point, but it will soon be on the platter. On the basis of Article 244 of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, we can expect the establishment of a special advisory committee with the European Transport Commission, where each member can appoint a representative. I hope that Slovenia will not appoint someone who knows traffic as a rabbit on a drum. Although the current government worships strategic councils, it is not clear why you left the idea that the Transport Minister should have a transport council, as it already existed, which would combine both the profession and the economy, civil society and other spheres, and in the end, at least some attention should be paid to scientific research and educational activities. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For these reasons, our Group of Members is in a great dilemma about what to do. From the first to the last moment of the parliamentary procedure, so to speak, not one of our branches has been taken into account, although Minister Christmas said on 30 November 2004 that we would accept this document together. And otherwise we can't think of it as being responsible for such a document and also for the delay of the Minister of Transport. For a delay, i.e. almost two years in the adoption of this important strategic document, it cannot and must not be the fault of the Transport Committee because it has called for a public presentation of opinions, and several times in public it has been heard by the Minister that it is being delayed by the adoption of this document due to the Committee on Transport. We therefore regret that our proposal has not been adopted, that the resolution withdraws from the legislative procedure and that it is amended and upgraded accordingly. Last but not least, you have had the opportunity to adapt or improve the existing 2004 document properly, but it is also clearly a matter of prestige in this area, for who will be the first Minister to adopt transport policy, but not for this transport policy to allow for sustainable development. This transport policy leads to a long-term collapse. Therefore, on behalf of the Head of the Group, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I declare the absence of all our Members and Members in the consideration and decision-making of this item on the agenda. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u110	Well welcomed on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Members! I also welcome the Minister responsible for transport. Today's consideration of the motion for a resolution on transport policy is certainly one of the more important issues, as transport policy represents the actions of the countries with which, in accordance with the desired objectives, it has an impact on the construction and functioning of the transport system. The basic objectives of transport policy must, however, be efficient transport to meet the needs of the economy and the population, reduce transport costs and use of energy, protect the environment and space and ensure coherent regional development. Both in the world and in our country, the uncoordinated development of transport, the over-exploitation of natural goods and the pursuit of profits have caused over-degradation of space, environmental pollution and ever-increasing human sacrifice and material damage. We therefore expect an effective response in the resolution. We note that the resolution does not provide effective answers to all these questions, is somewhat too loose, is too ambitious and, above all, there is no record of any dynamics in the implementation of the activity. That is why we have drafted amendments in the Social Democrats' Group of Members, with which we want to make transport policy more concrete. We propose that it be clearly recorded in the transport policy resolution that Slovenia poses the challenge of becoming a European logistics and distribution centre in Central Europe in order to achieve the macroeconomic importance of transport. The fact that the Republic of Slovenia lies at the crossroads of the fifth and tenth trans-European corridor means an excellent starting point for the logistics and distribution centre of the wider area. The countries that have identified themselves as such have experienced exceptional economic and social development. In its geopolitical direction, in the European Union, as a country representing the external border of the European Union, Slovenia must anticipate the development of an effective transport policy, in particular the transport links between South-West Europe from Spain, through southern France, Northern Italy, to Hungary and beyond to Eastern Europe and to the Balkans and South-Eastern Europe. Transport links on the southern side of the Alps in Slovenia can serve as an alternative to traffic-saturated then in central and northern Europe. And of course, it is a link between Northern and Central Europe from Germany, Poland, the Czech Republic through Austria to Kopra and thus to the maritime routes and, of course, to the Balkans and South-Eastern Europe. In short, the effectiveness of these links and the proper adjustment of the transport sector in Slovenia could be an incentive for the development of the national economy and the well-being of the population. The second amendment we are proposing is linked to areas outside the European corridors and the highway crossing in Slovenia, but of course we want to link these areas to a system of European connections. This is the area of Kočevska, Idrija-Cerkljanski and Kozjanski. We would like to point out that in order to implement the transport policy, it is essential to take into account the spatial development strategy of Slovenia. While the proposaler is aware of this, the resolution below does not fully follow this direction, as the spatial development strategy sets out the centres of national importance, the regional centre that develops into the national centre, then the regional centres and the inter-agency centres. In the resolution submitted, it only speaks of regional centres, which means that it only takes into account the largest cities in the statistical regions. However, intermodal passenger terminals should be placed in these centres. It is a solution to the integration of public transport of passengers, stations and crossing points, and it is also in the area of freight for the installation of logistics centres, where cargo passes from one to the other transport system, for example from sea and air routes to land and from roads to railways and vice versa. We therefore propose to take into account the spatial development strategy, which can meet the challenge proposed by the Social Democrats in the amendment to make Slovenia a European logistics and distribution centre. By building logistics centres at the heart of national importance and the future centre of national importance, sustainable spatial development is also being achieved. This also opens the way for addressing extremely pressing road infrastructure problems. In fact, we note that the road link or that the network of state roads is not built in a way that can ensure sustainable spatial development, but that the quality of vehicles or the maintenance of these is also problematic. If we look at railways quickly, we find that the rehabilitation and development of Slovenian railways is not being carried out effectively enough. This issue is obviously the most uncoordinated and beyond the possible effective action of the intended transport policy holders. In fact, the resolution provides that the institutions of state assembly, government and competent ministries, local communities, economic societies, scientific and research institutions. In view of the fact that the National Assembly has adopted laws that have obviously not been implemented, since today we are talking only about the formal separation of railways from the authorised infrastructure manager and from the transport of passengers and goods in rail transport, we can only talk about the fact that the decision on the basis of the laws adopted has not yet been made. Such a situation is insufferable and departs from the direction of the National Assembly, which has adopted the relevant laws and is extremely problematic, as today we can measure the consequences of such a situation in several billion years. In particular, there are two and a half billion losses in Slovenian railways. We also have completely opposite cases. If we look at the aviation area. Aviation still does not have its own national programme. Today, however, we find that with the national air carrier, we have improvised decisions to remedy the operation of this carrier. This is therefore an under-thinking measure in the field of aviation, which suggests that obviously we do not have all the documents yet to allow for a clearer strategy in the rescue of the national air carrier. If we touch on maritime transport and the latest topic, the inefficiency of responding to the construction of a terminal in the Gulf of Tržaška, which will certainly also change waterways and thus pose a limitation on the development of the port of Koper, we also open up in the current events restrictions on the port of Koper, which is not good. Therefore, if I somehow think about the resolution on transport policy, we find that too many open issues which our diplomacy and the ministries and, of course, the government is not addressing effectively enough, so we believe that by adopting a resolution on transport policy, together with our amendments, we would allow diplomacy and the government to play a more ambitious role for Slovenia in the European Union and, above all, to speed up the resolution on transport policy in all transport areas. We therefore expect that further consideration of the resolution will lead to a debate and support on the amendments we have tabled to the resolution, thus allowing the resolution to be of significantly higher quality than it is currently submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate on the motion for a resolution. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. With regard to the Resolution on Transport Policy of Slovenia, I would like to make only two points, one of which is that I miss a much stronger emphasis on comprehensive regulation and the promotion of public passenger transport, although I must say that there is quite a lot written about it, but as the representatives of the groups of Members have already said, much too much in general and the priorities are not clear enough. The fact is, in some things, I have to agree with the implementation of my colleague Pavlich, who says that this resolution should specifically cover a longer period than until 2010. Indeed, the fact is that some measures that may in the long term bring about a reduction in the burden of the atmosphere on greenhouse gases and the cost-effective management of energy are linked in particular to the very, very rapid development of public passenger transport and thus to the associated reduction of passenger car transport. The fact is that we well know that the main generator of greenhouse gases is transport and intra-transport, in fact, passenger car traffic worldwide, and in Europe and the United States in particular. Therefore, I believe that the under-emphasized objective, which is not yet achievable by 2010, is to substantially reduce the number of passenger cars per thousand inhabitants in our country so that the mentality, mentality of the Slovenians can gradually change us in such a way that, as is already the case in other European countries, the car is not necessarily a means of transport to survive without it, of course, under the condition that the State and the local communities ensure that public passenger traffic is as described in the resolution as comfortable, fast, well connected, it is said that it is a real intermodal system where the use of various public means of transport can achieve greater speed and at the same time greater comfort and associated with subsidisation of transport costs. Here, of course, our country, not only has it in the last 15 years, but it has never done anything to make car traffic, passenger car traffic, significantly more expensive than public passenger transport. In situations like these today, of course, we cannot expect anyone who has a little sanity to decide to drive from Kopra to Ljubljana or from Murska Sobota to Ljubljana by train or by bus, because in any case it costs much more, and at the same time it is certainly not at all comfortable. The same applies, of course, in particular, to the largest generator of pollution and also transport, which is daily transport to work and from work, to school and from school, etc. The second point I would like to stress is that this resolution should in fact show a significant shift also in the direction of road freight, namely transit road freight, to railways. The fact is that we are witnessing not only in Prekmurje, where our colleagues, at all, citizens and citizens feel this terrible increase in the number of trucks driving through Prekmurje, but because most of this axis is now covered with a highway cross. This is more noticeable when we look at it over time, how ten, twelve years ago the highways were loaded with freight traffic and what is happening today. On the route Nova Gorica, Ljubljana, Maribor, Murska Sobota, etc., and against Zagreb and Serbia freight traffic has increased, of course I have no data, but there is certainly no problem in your ministry of transport to find out. So it is not unusual that almost a new highway at the section of the Trench towards Primorska needs a completely new road structure because the trucks destroyed a practical highway. I think this suggests that it is easy, rather than systematically training our railways as well as trains for the transport of trucks, that we are focusing only on the construction of motorways because they are so burdened, then of course there is a lot of money for maintaining highways, while the railway is sadly bivacated, and we are watching and inhaling the products that these trucks produce. Some of us are lucky we don't live on these roads every day. I think it can only be bad for our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who are victims, I will say, reckless and, above all, unambitious regulation of freight traffic, which leads from one end of Slovenia to the other end of Slovenia, from the border to the border. This transit is the largest generator of freight traffic. I think that this should be significantly more stressed in the resolution, because then this 8% reduction in greenhouse emissions by 2012 would not be a particular problem. I think that there is also one of the tasks of the Ministry of Transport in order to actually prove by calculations that the shift of freight traffic to rail and change is essentially to raise citizens and citizens to move instead of transporting cars to public passenger transport under previous conditions, which I have already listed, of course, can not only be 8 but 16% reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Slovenia. This means that it also brings enough money to allow this development to be diverted into completely different waters than we have so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u113	Mr. Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President! Mr. Secretary, Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I regret that the opposition colleagues do not participate in this debate in the important adoption of the Transport Policy Document of the Republic of Slovenia, although they have different opinions and different needs, but it would be right to take part in these important events. I believe that, even on the committee itself, where we have dealt with these matters, on the labour market, I believe that this is the fruit of the joint work of many people who participated in this document, both in the government and external representatives, and in the end, we ourselves have supported the public presentation of this transport policy resolution, where a number of opinions have been expressed, both of which are different. I believe that a lot of these comments are taken into account in this resolution. I am convinced that this is a good basis for further development of transport policy in the Republic of Slovenia. I also believe that this document will require a great deal of will when new state budgets are being made and additional financial support is being given to the Ministry of State to do so, so that this document can also be implemented. This is the essence of this communication, because I believe that we are aware of this, all of us in this House, as well as the Government, of the importance of this resolution for the further rapid development of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as for greater security, greater accuracy and only protection of the environment, as well as the development of state roads, which we know have been seriously neglected in the past, that investment in state infrastructure has been minimal, and has also been made by winter, storm and poor maintenance, which has caused much greater damage. Therefore, those who have this bad luck to use these roads daily are not in the same position as those who are lucky and already have a highway cross, and so on. I therefore believe that the support already shown in the 2006 and 2007 budgets will also be directed to state regional roads, which are very large and in very poor condition in the country. We have talked a lot about the rehabilitation and development of railway infrastructure in this Parliament, including on the parental committee, and the government is still aware that this area is severely neglected, undernourished. I believe that we will talk more about this on Friday on the working body, when we will address only this item on the agenda and also adopt some relevant conclusions, how and how to develop the railway infrastructure in Slovenia in the future. This area is also well defined by the resolution, and the government has set certain goals, timetables, and I hope that it will also try to implement them, although I know that it is not only a gamble on the government, the cube is also likely, on the other hand, on the holding of Slovenian railways, leadership, team and so on. However, I am glad that the highway cross is slowly ending. I think that it has all the basic conditions and grounds that investors or contractors will be able to complete within the deadline of 2008, and this important project for Slovenia will also be successfully completed. Even more so, I am pleased that the third development axis in Slovenia is becoming a reality. This was also the task of the Slovenian government. This has also been given great support in this House, and things are moving from words to actions, but we will also be those who are not fortunate enough to live along the highway, once lucky and have a third development axis, from Koroška, Celje, Posavje, Dolenjska and Bela Krajina, that these regions will also get what, at this time, severely restricts us in our development, in our balanced, coherent regional development, which we also talk about in Slovenia, as well as the linkage, faster flow - all of this will certainly give us great impetus with the third development axis especially to those regions such as Koroška, Posavia, Bela Krajina and others who are in development, thereby weakening the power of those regions that do not have good regional road links, to those who have it. Those who have this connection are developing faster. This is especially evident in today’s highway cross. Those we do not have today are severely weakened and disadvantaged. Here is the will, here are heading in the right direction, and I hope that this third development axis will also be prepared as soon as possible, documentation and everything else, that we will still be able to say definitively in this mandate of the Government and Parliament about this most important national transport project of the Republic of Slovenia. I also believe that the day will be a greater emphasis on aviation than one of the most important rapidly growing areas of transport where we may not be most satisfied. If we take the example of Maribor Airport, where I myself as a member of the Transport Committee was present, there I could not enjoy some beautiful sightseeing tours of that airport, and I believe that this is also the pride of the Slovenian government, not Maribor, not air traffic, and I believe that these opportunities that this Maribor airport has with its surroundings can also be used as soon as possible by this government and the owner to arrange certain things so that this potential, which such infrastructure has in Maribor, airport, can also be used as quickly as possible for the benefit of Slovenia and especially this area of the Styrian Land. As far as all other matters are concerned, I believe that this document, which, once again, is a good one, is well prepared and is finally the fruit of the multi-annual work of many individuals, experts, experts, such and others, and also in line with many actors in this story, and obviously not with all those who would sadly be displeased that it is wrong to do so and that they do not know anything and are not worth listening to this debate, I am only a little as a Member, but life is such that we do not know, even with such important documents as this resolution, a little of pure wine, to do things together so that this document is for all Members, not only for the opposition. This I think would also be a shame for all those who have actively participated in this. However, life goes on, and I also believe that this resolution will win its validity and approval in the National Assembly, impose on the Ministry of Transport and the Government primarily responsible work is not my belief that it is on the right track, and that those words, which are written down in this resolution, will also receive as soon as possible actions and what our citizens rightly expect - better infrastructure, one way or another, for the better and greater development of this Slovenia, which has the greatest opportunity to take advantage of it in this European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u115	Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and others present! We are talking about a resolution on transport policy in the Republic of Slovenia and given that we are already a month in May 2006, we could say - finally. After a public presentation of opinions from me for an unknown reason from January, as the Committee on Transport concluded, moved to March, we are now in May and to a document which, in my opinion, is not something to read, we are also listening or listening today, until colleagues have committed obstruction, mainly comments on the fact that it is too general, too principled that the resolution does not contain concrete measures and so on. We have a number of resolutions in this country, including national programmes, which are one lower or higher in hierarchy, however you wish - in short, documents that are much more operational than the resolutions are supposed to be. Let us take a look at just one that was adopted after many years of stress and anguish - a national housing programme that the country should have in some year after the entry into force of the 1991 Housing Law, which it received in its previous reference to the National Assembly. This document is very accurate, many measures are envisaged, and if we take it into our hands today when it should be at the peak of this execution, or if we take it into our hands two years ago, when this summit is supposed to start somehow and when we are supposed to build 10,000 non-profit apartments per year in this country, and when we are supposed to receive many other measures over the past years that would encourage both non-profit sector construction and the accessibility of dwellings to those whom we are so keen to swear to in this debate, we will find that we are very far from what has been adopted and written there. This program is not being implemented or 10% or 10%! And something similar I think is important in this area. I think it was high time that we came to this resolution on transport policy, because it is one basis, one direction, one commitment to both the transport ministry, the government and all of us, that when we take decisions based on this direction we will undoubtedly be waiting for and the results of which will only show up in the coming mandate, because we know that it is a strategic, long-term decision, so that we will show one greater breadth in our decision-making and direction than some have shown today. When they talk about all kinds of things that, in my view, do not belong in this debate and are related to specific documents - for example, the second track, so many times already exposed, is problematic. Even if we had money, what should we do, because even project documentation has not been provided in recent years! And there are many other cases that say that it is high time for transport to begin to regulate matters in a systematic way, which I think is a possibility for this resolution. This is just the first point on which concrete things can start to happen and when, on the basis of this resolution, we receive similar documents to those we witnessed months ago, which are supposed to ensure faster construction of motorways, but then I really expect that the debates will not be the same as when some were talking about how many thousands, 100,000 tolars, we will owe each of our children in this area, which was pure manipulation and stupidity. At that time, I think there are debates that will say something better, which will find that the path proposed is not right and that there is no need to go the other way, just so far there has been no such proposals, and there is probably no harm in that resolution today. I must also regret to note that some who obviously cannot get out of their minds, that the state is not their hereditary feud, that we have heard from these people again today in this resolution that they were obviously the only ones capable of putting the right people in their 12-year rule and that everyone else is incapable. Today, we are listening to these stories again in this resolution. Please, let us be serious if we already have one serious document on the table and let us be serious about serious matters. And let's stop with these imaginary other tracks, how this government doesn't support it and so on, we know that we had it both in the national railway programme and in the special law that regulated the route against Maribor, and that this track was "touched" along with it, and nothing happened. Nothing happened. And now that things are starting to happen, when you have to take another bunch of things in order to come to fruition, this point is one where, I think, needlessly, things that I think are important. And I firmly believe that even those who have left this hall will agree that Slovenia deserves regulated roads, that it deserves not only regulated road infrastructure, rail transport infrastructure, airports and ports, but also everything else that makes possible modern public transport. However, in order to achieve this, it is likely that the remainder of this mandate will not be sufficient, but that there will be some further need for it, and after my assessment, a number of concrete decisions that we will also have to make in this national assembly. However, I think it will be necessary to achieve all the objectives that I think we are all trying to achieve, or we will endeavour to make an organisational change at the level of the implementation of the individual services that are supposed to take care of this realization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u117	Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr Vice President, the House of Respect. Transport policy provides guidance for an efficient and harmonised transport system. It must follow and guide the traffic flows of goods and people and the needs of the economy. Finally, it must follow the people's wishes to freely choose means of transport and travel. Slovenia is a maritime and transit country. Because of its geopolitical position, transport policy is particularly important to it. This strategy or resolution must also be in line with the spatial development strategy of Slovenia, which we adopted in 2004, since, in the context of economic public infrastructure, the coordinated development of transport infrastructure plays a very important role. In Slovenia's Spatial Development Strategy, we wrote that adequate transport infrastructure supports the development of a polycentric network of cities and other settlements, consistent development of areas with common spatial and developmental characteristics, complementing the functions of rural and urban areas and their connection with European transport systems and urban network. I would like to raise some open questions about the development of the road network in Slovenia. It is already in the resolution itself that our country has, over the past ten years, made a strong emphasis on the development of the highway crossing within the framework of the fifth and tenth corridors through Slovenia. The remaining area or remaining existing network of state roads has been maintained and maintained. Only bottlenecks were removed with the aim of increasing the passivity and safety of transport. Only areas directly along the highway cross have developed rapidly, while the accessibility of other areas to the highway system has not improved or better said, the accessibility of remote areas has deteriorated significantly. This is also explicitly stated in the resolution that we are addressing and quoting today: "The overall situation of the existing network of state roads, main and regional roads has even deteriorated in this period. The current situation shows that 42% of these roads are in poor or very poor condition. The situation described is a limiting factor in the consistent regional development of areas of Slovenia that do not lie at the highway crossing. Areas are becoming uncompetitive due to poor accessibility." This is what is stated in the resolution and it is absolutely true. Due to the deployment of economic activities and, of course, to more favourable transport locations, the country's centre with Ljubljana is further strengthened as the capital and direct areas along the highway. All other areas in Slovenia will gradually and steadily go back over a long period of time. In order to halt these negative trends, it is essential to update the state road network beyond the so-called motorway cross or the fifth and tenth European corridor. However, the Resolution on Transport Policy in the Republic of Slovenia only includes the development of the third transport axis from Koroška to White Krajina, which will connect the regional centres in Austria, Slovenia and Croatia, which will allow road transport of these regions to be linked to the main transport routes of Europe. While other transport development axes are only found in the chapter on measures in the field of transport infrastructure, which states that the objectives will be achieved, I quote, "by upgrading and maintaining the highway system and other state roads as development axes". So in the resolution. I would like to tell you, colleagues and colleagues, that in Slovenia we have not only a third development axis, but also a fourth and another one, as shown in the amendment, also a third A. and a third B. development axis. I would therefore like to tell you once again that in Slovenia we do not only have a highway cross, but we also have regions that are very far away from it and are thus neglected and already in the start with fewer opportunities for accelerated development. Let me mention only Northern Primorska with the Upper Soča and the Idrija-Cerkljan region, part of Gorenjska with the Poljansko and Selsko valley, the entire area of the Kočev region, Belo krajino, Koroško, Prekmurje and some area or region could be obtained. We have therefore tabled an amendment in the Social Democrats' Group to the chapter on transport policy starting points, where we propose that the third A, third B, and fourth development axis be recorded as opportunities. Let me say something else about the fourth development axis described in the Spatial Development Strategy of Slovenia as a road link of cross-border importance and it runs from Vidma via Tolmin or Bovec and Škofja Loka forward to Domžal and from Želen to Idrija to Logatca with a link to the network of international remote road links. The fourth development axis therefore connects the northern Primorska and part of Gorenjska with Italy and the Slovenian highway cross and has the same rank in the country's spatial development strategy as the fast road in the Vipavska Valley or the third development axis. The truth is that the fourth traffic axis was first discussed by the Minister of Transport of Mags. Janez Christmas. In the article Most of the money to state roads and railways, published in the newspaper Delo, journalist Aleš Strgar wrote, citing: "To the third axis from Koroška to Bela Krajina added Janez Bozič also the fourth north Primorsko - Gorenjsko, Keltiko, from Bovec to Tolmin and Idrija or Cerkne to Škofja Loka." End of quote. In addition, it should be stressed and added that Minister Bozič forgot to mention the connection from Idria to the highway in Logatco. Even more worrying is the fact that the link between Iron and Lower Idria and Idria and Logatco is not classified as investment priorities in Slovenia for the period 2007-2013 from the national development programme, which is to be co-financed by EU funds in the next financial perspective. With regard to the requirements for placing the fourth development axis in the country's strategic plans, we signed some coastal and Goran MEPs in Zyr in March, and some coastal and mountainous mayors a special Jewish statement specifically requiring this, then there is a request from the Idrian municipal council, which has also been signed by all political parties, institutions and the economy, following a request for the placement of the right-hand side of this fourth development axis in strategic plans, where candidateing for funds from the European Funds will also be enabled. We also cleared up a number of things on a recent visit to the government in Northern Primorsk or Goriška when we had meetings in Idrija and Nova Gorica. I hope that things will be more concrete than promises. However, I expect the Ministry to prepare and send to the National Assembly a national programme for the modernisation of the state road network, which is highly ambitious, as data from three and a half billion euro to four billion euro are emerging, which should be provided for the proper renovation of the state road network. I would like Members and Members to support the amendment of the Social Democrats, which will make it easier for me to vote in favour of the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u119	Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me first tell Mr Christian Janc that we are the opposition and that we are involved in dealing with this point, because it has been said that unfortunately we have left the opposition's session of Parliament, and unfortunately I cannot even answer him because he and his colleagues are not at the meeting, and they have not announced that they will obstruct him. I am not interested in prestige in this resolution, especially in the fact that this resolution would produce some results. Transport policy must remain or must become a factor for more coherent regional development. It must mean that the obstacle we face is transformed into our advantage to be known as the transport infrastructure country, which gives priority to the decisions of potential investors. That we will actually become a country that will not be again in the dilemma of what to give priority to, road or rail transport, in order to be able to ensure sustainable development that will not be detrimental to the environment or the economy, if we call it sustainable development, then these two components contain one way or another. We are living in a time of globalisation, as recorded in the introduction to this resolution, when the distances between us are getting smaller. If you live along the so - called third development axis, you can find that the distances remain the same in kilometers and the time to overcome these distances is increasing. Construction of motorways has actually accelerated the development of areas along the highway cross, while elsewhere the situation has deteriorated mainly during this time, and there has been no improvement in any way. It is therefore good in this resolution that it has a vision of providing the economy. The so-called information technology will play an important role in this regard. Of course, to successfully implement this information technology, we need to have adequate transport infrastructure. This is not to be overlooked by the conclusion or fact that road transport has made it significantly easier to meet the needs of the market and has taken on a larger share of transport, as stated in this resolution, and that it will be necessary to remove bottlenecks, upgrade the motorway network and actually connect all transport corridors, all European transport corridors to our highway, which also contains a proposal for this resolution. Colleague Bevk was talking about the so-called third development axis that we have a third development axis. Unfortunately, at this point we have no development axis, no third, no third, no third, no third, no third, no third, no fourth, but it is working to make it a development axis, and it is indeed worth supporting the amendment of the Social Democrats, which also places these development axes in this resolution. So, like I said, I don't have a problem with who's proposing. However, I wish that this resolution would actually be the first step forward, of course, all the other steps, so that we have a transport policy so that we have the transport infrastructure that our country deserves. I certainly welcome in particular the fact that, as an opportunity in this resolution, we also refer to development axes. This is very important, not only for the areas connected by this, for example, highway, which will somehow be the backbone of the development axis, but mainly for economic opportunities, to exercise all the potential that these regions, which are not just on the highway, have, and regrettably, because of the transport infrastructure that we have today, cannot fully exploit.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u121	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. A respected minister with co-workers! First of all, I would like to say that I am aware that the resolution is not an implementing document that sets out the routes or draws them in as precise terms as possible, but is a general guideline that gives the framework for transport policy in the broadest sense, regardless of whether we are talking about road, air, maritime, rail or any infrastructure or policy as a whole. However, it seems important to me that once again we can also talk about railway infrastructure, rail and its policy in general, because I believe that this particular railway area has been neglected in the past. We spent a lot of billions on motorways, which is fine, and we ignored the railway a little bit, but then we wanted both infrastructures to be equivalent so that the situation on both sides would be the same, but that is simply not the case. I myself would focus on two issues, but I am aware that they are not the most bearable in the resolution, but I think they are still the most important, perhaps even for a certain part of the citizens. Here I mean the third development axis, no matter what some think about this third development axis, or the corridor or the individual parts of the corridor. Another area I'm going to talk about is tolls, tolls. I know this isn't a load of darkness, but I think we're still gonna have a headache because of the darkness. The solutions in the resolution must be such that they do not limit the expertise in the professional proposals for individual solutions and that we do not close any possible solutions with any quick and reckless changes, both to 'ad jack' and then we have a lot of problems. That's where I'm referring specifically to the toll system. A change occurred very quickly, and today we have a situation that does not indicate that we would have a system. If you are 200 kilometers away or less than 200 km away, 150 km away, three tolls in between, these trucks, especially those from the east, are joyfully retreating and then causing impossible problems in certain places, it is no longer a system. As I have already pointed out, this is not the main focus of this document, but I am afraid that the minister will probably have a headache, but someone else, but I am sure that the minister will have the most headache, because in the end he will be the lightning rod on which he will somehow concentrate. And if it comes to what is somehow being done for ten years - that is, for about ten years, this situation in the field of tolling takes place. I have warned myself many times, but not now, for the last time, we are all generals now, when this system began, and when in the local community as members of the municipal council we voted on such a front post, but we had a lot of concerns, too, but it went happily through because it was a certain "deale". But when I talked about how the Minister's head will be hurt, about what is being prepared, it will probably be in very short time - although I hope that this will not happen - there will be a road closure in Vrholah, this is between the Slovenian Horsemen and the Slovenian Bistrica. Anyone who knows this matter in Bistrica steps off the highway, skips to the toll station in Beatings and then, either leads to Celje or otherwise solves the matter and not only the locals, but now happy everyone, including the trucks that have already won this system. I'd rather not talk about the damage. First of all, it's a shame because the toll doesn't get picked up, but those who drive or drive on the highway, and that's why we pay more; or otherwise, if all those who have to go on the highway pay less, everyone else could pay less and get the same or even a little more. Therefore, of course, the situation is even more incomprehensible because in certain areas, at certain toll stations, those who live there, we pay everything. Slovenian Horses are one of those - whether we drive to Maribor or towards Celje or Ljubljana, we pay everything, if the toll is a little lower, that's another thing, but we pay everything. And others ride cheerfully for 50 km, and they pay nothing. We in Dramalje, where there is 5 km, also pay this, while the other from Dramalj up to 50 km away Vranski is available for free. We don't criticize them for driving for free, OK, if that's the system, only the system isn't fair. And this is the problem that I would also like to draw attention to in this resolution, even though I am aware that this is not a bearable topic, but it is very important and how important it is. I hope something really works out soon, because if it doesn't, someone else is going to get a headache. That is why, of course, I personally expect solutions, especially because I have already put at least 15, 20 questions in this Chamber on this subject, more in the previous period when this started, not now. Now, of course, we're all setting them up because we've all seen what this is about, and that's why I'm expecting some solutions. But most interestingly, those who helped to create such a system at that time, even at the local level, today are in the front lines when they oppose and spit on the minister, according to the ministry, that this is not "counting" with regard to to tolls. Some of us know that very well, and I'm not going to talk about names, but that's just how it is. And another topic I wanted to talk to you about, a few words, and that's the third development axis. In this regard, I have also raised a recent question, namely, about the part of the route linking the Styrian and Lower Highway. I myself advocate the view that this third development axis must be somewhere in the national interest, that is to say, the most national interest is somewhere, I will use the domestic term hung on this route so that we do not put a route where there is no benefit to any link, not to the left, not to the right or to the entire route in the tunnel. And the route that would go through Kozian is certainly in the national interest, for several reasons. I'd open this area, from God forgotten. A lot has been said, but it hasn't done enough, I won't say anything, much has already been done, but it's still too little, so they're still lagging behind other regions. And if this route, this part of the route was placed on the part of Kozyanski, it would probably have achieved the broadest national interest. At the time of the question two months ago, the minister told me that an analysis would be prepared, and then the profession would decide where the best route would probably be. I agree with this, so I also say that the solution in the resolution must be such that we do not close any professional decision that we will not cement and the expert can speak whatever he wants. This is the case with the tolls. There I am convinced that the profession had nothing to do with it, because the profession would not have proposed such a system, and here I would like to point out that no such mistake would have been made here as well. I support this resolution and I am sure that the resolution is not a seminary task, as has been said already today, as assessed by the professor. The resolution is a government document that must receive support in Parliament, and this resolution is not assessed by the professor, but by all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. However, this is a fundamental difference and that I would not be too bad, but I will say that those who spoke about the seminary task have left the hall, and this proves that they think they are a professor. And when the professor gave the grade, then they don't care what's going on anymore, they can go out of the hall, they can go home, eventually they can go to that seminar assignment if I have a little fun. It's an unsettling relationship. This is a resolution that has long-term implications, not from today to tomorrow, and those who think that the resolution is from today to tomorrow are certainly making a mistake. I don't think I'm the smartest, but I know what the resolution is. It has long-term implications, and it is sometimes worth putting up with little in the resolution and sometimes a word when it comes to specific documents, it may be very quick to pass, but it is not. There are long-term consequences, so I have only drawn attention to two problems on which the government and the ministry will have to work seriously. And I think it's quite a document, so I'll personally support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Franz Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. I will focus mainly on the developmental economic aspects of transport. I think it is not excessive to say that transport is not only an extremely important component of our development strategy, but is actually one of the key preconditions for its effective implementation. This is already demonstrated by data on the current importance of transport in the national economy, which are also mentioned in the material. Let me only mention three; the share of gross domestic product 7.5%, the share of employees in traffic 10% and the share of construction 60%, which is an extremely high share. It must be acknowledged, however, that the possibilities are far from being exploited, that more opportunities offer us transport in the future in view of the geostrategic situation of our country, especially in the new situation of enlargement of the European Union towards the east. The effects of transport on businesses, regions and the country are very important. The development of transport with modern transport infrastructure is a condition for coherent regional development; it could also be said otherwise, today there are still a number of underdeveloped transport infrastructures and underdeveloped transport barriers to more coherent regional development. That transport of coherent regional development is still a major problem of Slovenian development policy, the latest development report, which is currently in the government procedure and where we see data in the annex for the period 1995 to 2003, shows some data by 2005 that the differences in the gross domestic product of the regions are still increasing, rather than reducing. The calculations for the region I come from in Pomour show that the region suffers more than 2 billion tolls of damage annually due to an unbuilt highway. This amount greatly increases damage on state roads, on local infrastructure, on housing facilities and on vehicles. There is great damage to human health, this has already been mentioned in the debate, the degraded environment and the untapped opportunities for development, in particular tourism, transport, trade and other transport-related activities. All of this is due, of course, to the extraordinary increase in the transit traffic of trucks towards the east - west and vice versa. Therefore, in my view, it would also make sense in the resolution to define, as proposed by the first amendment, that in subsection 1.1. "time challenges" to emphasise or specifically record that one of Slovenia's objectives is to become a European logistics and distribution centre in Central Europe for the wider region. This would also help to make the document even more concrete in view of the comments that it is too general and would contribute to the greater ambition of this document. The resolutions contained in the general documents also need to be ambitious because they actually define objectives and policies. Of course, policies for a longer period cannot and must not be linked to short periods, to individual policy options in power. It is also a factor of time, and it does not work for us or for us, because other countries, I think mainly of neighbouring countries, with their competitive transport corridors and transport systems, are not waiting for us, but they are also speeding up the construction of these systems and corridors. It is therefore strategically important for Slovenia to decide as soon as possible on the construction and implementation of the integrated concept of the transport, logistics and distribution centre, which will enable the rapid development of transport infrastructure and parallel transport activities. This will be a condition for the best possible internal integration of Slovenian regions, places and cities and, of course, for Slovenia's connection with a narrower and wider environment in Europe and the world. This will allow for the real further accelerated internationalisation of the Slovenian economy. And just one more sentence at the end of chapter 4 of the transport policy measures in the field of transport infrastructure, upgrading and maintenance of motorways and state roads. I think that there is an urgent government intervention here and, if necessary, a national assembly, especially in terms of the provision of funds, because the situation is catastrophic in individual sections. This has already been mentioned for some sections. I have to say for the pomur section, he was talked about by my colleague Joseph Horvat, the situation on G-13 is so that it is increasingly dangerous to drive on this road. It is more on the road of holes like normal asphalt, and in these days when it is spring, this road is the most flowering of all spring. And if we want to avoid further damage, accidents and damage to the country, then intervention, and this rapid intervention, is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Honorable Minister with coworkers, respectable colleagues! This is another resolution that is being adopted in a short time, which will have an impact on people's lives or resolutions for Slovenia, which are platforms for the enforcement of certain laws. If by the first resolution, as I have already mentioned the resolution on social protection, we are not and cannot be satisfied, I am personally afraid, and I am confident, even with the resolution before us, with the document in person, I cannot be satisfied in any way. That's my personal opinion. We all know what transport and transport policy mean for people's lives. Today we are living in a time of globalisation, a time of market economy, and if I am more plastic, I would say, at a time when every person has to fight for daily bread and they have to drive even 100 kilometres to work, which is why it is important for such a person to have transport connections or road infrastructure that I do not talk about railways. We know what transport in general means for the economy in our Slovenia. We know that only a successful economy can be one that also provides social security and prosperity for Slovenia. Finally, if we know that the transport sector or sector generates 7.5% of GDP revenue, then we know that transport or the system concerned is very important for Slovenia. I could therefore say gravely that this resolution or document seems to me weak, overly relaxed and even too ambitious. Personally, I have said many times that paper conveys everything that paper can be beautifully written, but life is everything else and there are new stories in it every day. Like the others, I have to stop at the local level myself. I am convinced that local, municipal and other public roads are important for the mobility of people, important for economic development and in general for the lives of people. I come personally from the environment, as has been said many times, which is not related to the highway cross. Thus we are in some way handicapped in this environment, in my Zasavje or the municipality of Laško-Murovče and so-called Posavje. We are handicapped mainly because we cannot develop an economy, we have a lot of tourism in this area. After all, people have houses, apartments, and property prices are significantly lower than in Slovenia, where there is a highway cross, and in general people's lives are difficult. All these people pay the same taxes as people in Ljubljana, Maribor or elsewhere where they have this highway cross. Personally in this document, I do not see any improvement in this environment in the future, although in some ways there is a third development axis that goes across our area, according to some data. I hope it will be, even though I don't oppose the other eight now called A, B, C, and I don't know what else. I will personally be satisfied as a member of the National Assembly if all places in Slovenia are connected to road infrastructure and people are satisfied. I hope that policy will not create a road link, that policy will not build roads or that the decision will not go primarily in a political sense. I know that this requires a lot of funding, and this is not in the budget. However, if the state spends a lot of billions on weapons - and we have recently witnessed that it will spend 63 billion Slovenian tolars in two years - then I wonder what the point is. I know that for 63 billion at this time, in two years, many local roads could be paved, and people in this area would be pleased. We prefer to put in some armors, which at the end of Slovenia will not bring anything. Let me get this straight. I would not talk about railways, because there will be an opportunity for this on the Transport Committee, where we Social Democrats have convened an extraordinary meeting on the issue of railways. Let me conclude with this: the resolution is a document for my terms as a document, some may call it a file, another serious project, a serious document. But I will say so myself until I see the good will of the Ministry and until they really begin to solve the problems that we face every day, then it will be another document that we will accept or not accept today and will gather unfortunately for the dust on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr Hwauc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I regret that there are no colleagues here on my left who have decided to leave the hall. Otherwise, it does not contribute to a quality debate and the search for better solutions, but it is their decision. I'm sure there'll be plenty of opportunities to talk about traffic. We have before us the adoption of implementing programmes, national programmes, and I hope that they will then be ready to cooperate more actively. I might be around this comment that this programme is too general, too principled, too precise, showing two cases that suggest that perhaps not everything is really what some want to show. Here, a little earlier, or something earlier, it was said that European policy had been adopted in 2000 and that it was in force by 2010 and that it was practically obsolete in 2006 and that this would lead to a debate on some changes. And, of course, the changes will probably be bigger or smaller and I am sure that this document, in the case of some normal changes, is relatively loose enough that it will not need to be changed so that we can modify or monitor these changes through these implementation programmes. And this is the advantage of this document, because I say, enough flexibility in today's world, which is changing so quickly. The second point, which has also been made specifically by our colleague, is that he is underworked in the maritime field and that there will be a gap between theory and practice in his eyes. In practice, the replacement of the members of the Supervisory Board and the 100 directors of the port, the increase in the number of members of the administration, the replacement of the Director of the Maritime Directorate and so on. I understand all this that then the desire to specify this programme is that we write down who will be the director of the port, who will be in the supervisory board and who will be the director of the directorate and so on. I don't think it's a program like this. Thirdly, there has been nothing done so far in the field of transport of transport policy to cause damage and so on. I absolutely cannot agree with this, but this turns out to be the way the Transport Ministry has been doing all this time just with the preparation of a document on a transport policy resolution that nothing has been done in other areas. I'm just going to remind you that since we're talking so much about this second track, this government has adopted a location plan for the second track. This government, and this, is an important step forward for us to approach construction. Secondly, if we talk again about this second track, a project is under way to modernise the existing track, which is 20 and more billion Slovenian tolars, which will allow it to be built in this transitional period until the second track or even the second track is built, so that this existing track can also take over these increased capacity. If I go on the highway program. This government, this ministry has set itself a very ambitious highway programme, has accelerated it, and this highway programme is also being successfully implemented according to the timetable also where there were backlogs, I am talking about Prekmurje, we are talking about Pyhrne Highway and Slivnica-Gruškovje could count even more of these sections. State roads. State roads have been completely neglected. With the budget rebalancing for last year and for this year, at least we tried to patch up those holes that were in some way. It is true, though, that in one year it is impossible to correct what happened earlier in ten or more years. As far as Luke Koper's concerned. The port of Koper was on a European map. The fact that we came into the Marine Highway project didn't just happen. It took a lot of effort to do that. Finally, let me recall that we have recently adopted a guarantee law in this House, which will also make it financially possible for this project to be actually implemented in these years and in the coming years, and this indicates that something is moving in this area, but that we will remain within certain frameworks, and we urgently need this document, which is called a transport policy resolution, and then all the implementing acts that will follow it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Kokalj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u130	The Resolution on the Transport Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, as it has been heard from previous discussions, is an important document, although part of the opposition has announced or, during the debate itself, has actually begun to obstruct the matter. Unfortunately, there was not much, at least I did not see concrete proposals for improvement, but it is a principled opposition. Given that we need a document that will constitute one minimum consensus on what will happen with the basis for economic development in Slovenia, given that we are in the second anniversary of the entry into the European Union in the new context as well, I think it is essential that such a basic document be adopted. I am sure that he will also be complemented by what has been said. If transport policy changes in any way within the European Union, I am convinced that it is also possible, through interested working bodies, to deal with and adapt to such a document, but only to comment on the amendment. Besides, I know that this is not a debate on amendments, but because it concerns the whole issue and a systematic approach to sub-chapter 2.1 - results and analyses, in particular with regard to the fourth developmental transport axis. It has already been mentioned by some fellow Members that a meeting was held in March, attended by all the mayors and Members, irrespective of their clientele in Žirje. The meeting was convened at the initiative of Members from this area. This presence and an extremely constructive conversation helped, probably about 30 of us there, to agree on key issues within two hours, and we also signed the so-called Žirov statement. I personally believe that the reference to the fourth traffic axis in the resolution would be judged. It is about connecting the centre of Ljubljana with the outermost regions from the centre to the east or west to Italy, and this fourth development axis does not only mean a development axis or a transport axis, but also means allowing especially the area of the economy that we do not have in some parts of Slovenia, and this is mainly production. I think that this segment of the economy is still relatively strong in this area and must be supported urgently. We know, however, that the backbone for the development of any part or level of the country from the municipality, the region to the country is always infrastructure, in this case transport; without infrastructure we simply do not have the possibility of rapid development in view of the overall situation in this global economic system in which we are located. The industry that lies in this area, industry representatives, including the mayors who attended this meeting, have confronted us with facts and with the planned possible decisions, if transport infrastructure does not allow optimal transport, this is also one of the factors to be considered by the leaders of these production activities on the relocation of this industry to the east or even the Far East. In this context, I support the resolution itself, but of course I agree that, on the basis of a meeting and a very large consensus that was not politicised, a really very high degree of political and professional consistency, the fourth development axis is placed in the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Minister with his associates. The motion for a resolution on transport policy has been heard today by electronic media that it is significant years late, this came from the opposition mouths and I must insist that this resolution is actually long overdue for one reason, because the country was under the same policy, which was not listening to the unique geostrategic and infrastructure situation of the Republic of Slovenia. For this reason, I must remind those who are watching us that it is no wonder that this parliamentary group is acting so anarchistically against the development of Slovenia in this important debate and is essentially obstructing the debate at such an important point. I understand them in a way, because even in this resolution, when the opportunities mentioned in Chapter 2.1 are mentioned on one side and on the other side of the threat, I must conclude that all the threats recorded here are risks arising from 10 or 15 years of transport policy. The outflow of transit transport flows to the parallel network against Italy, Austria, Croatia, Hungary is a significant consequence of the state's inaction during this period, the failure to implement projects, the poor use of money in the field of transport infrastructure and catastrophic thinking, which has dominated mainly with regard to rail infrastructure, as well as freight port transit beyond Kopra. Today, Koper could be an even stronger Adriatic port if it joined the second rail track project in a timely manner and if it did not negotiate so badly with the Republic of Croatia on the issue of the maritime border. It is quite clear that Croatia was able, even under the table with the Ljubljana interest in Trieste, to block and at the expense of Luke Koper also acted against the resolution of this matter at that time. In fact, at the time of the previous term, we witnessed in some way that Croats had misrepresented Slovenia and that Slovenia had granted some concessions on land, and at sea the Racan-Drnovšek agreement eventually fell into the water. And I must point out that the traffic resolution that some are attacking today, if it is bad, that I do not know what it is, a seminar assignment, is an extremely necessary document to start moving things in this area in a positive direction. I'm looking at all this disorientation coming from this missing party, and I have to say I don't understand. When we accepted the guarantee for loans for the construction of transport infrastructure and it is in spite of the fact that in that guarantee, in those projects, some of the key projects of northeast Slovenia in the area of Maribor were the most fiercely opposed to these projects by the MEP from Maribor, Milan Petek. I do not understand this response of Members. And on the basis of such a policy, Slovenia would actually be stuck somewhere in the past; fortunately, such a policy has ended, and we are on track today, also by means of this resolution, which can be improved, which is the basic document, which is the initial document, we are starting to move forward faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Testen has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Hello, Mr President, Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Let me first say that I will support the resolution and I will also support the amendment, which includes the fourth development axis. If I tell you, for an illustration, that from Tolmin to Ljubljana is 100 km, that there must be two hours to drive with a violation, then I think it is clear enough what conditions we have for transport. Whenever he was in the Upper House or on the Idrian and Church Ministers, even now 14 days ago, when the government visited us, we talked a great deal, 50 percent or more of the time, exclusively about roads; roads, roads and again roads. This is our main problem, so I think it is essential that this part goes to the resolution as well as not just to the resolution, so that the deadline for implementation is anticipated as soon as possible. When we talk about the Upper Lawn, we say that its only real economic opportunity is tourism. How we will develop tourism without transport connections, without roads and without other transport infrastructure. I can't imagine. Another thing I'd like to say. This resolution states that Slovenia has certain advantages, but for which it is necessary to apply them as soon as possible if it wants to deliver the relevant results. This is in the area of transport related to large assets and I ask myself, although private capital, public and private partnership is mentioned here, but I wonder in which transport area Slovenia will be able to implement this partnership. I think we missed our best chance on the freeway. I think that some in maritime transport may be elsewhere, but I think we have missed the main opportunities. I would like to stop on one more matter, which Mrs Pecanova has already mentioned quite a bit - public transport. Look, we had a hit in Baska recently, when the road closed, the hill collapsed on the state road. If we had public transport organised, as it should be, we have a train along Baska Grape and if there were at least approximately adequate traffic arrangements from the Soča Bridge station, there would be no too many problems. The problems are because we are completely unorganized. Road hauliers are neglecting, I could even say that sometimes they go by rail stations on purpose to direct passengers to their mill. This is happening, this is happening in our case. Moreover, this has resulted in a very expensive public transport. You know, I've been stopped by older people lately, but sometimes I ask why they don't take the bus, and they say it's too expensive. And that's a big problem today. Public transport will have to be cheap to achieve that more people will drive by public transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Unfortunately, there are no LDS colleagues here. I think they also have some bad news about their legacy in transport and transport infrastructure. At least Koroška is said to have suffered as much damage as the 12-year rule of the LDS with its satellites. And Koroška was left in the area of transport in some pre-modern time. The transport structure, however, we know, is the basis for economic development, where today Koroška and many other regions without motorways are far behind. And Koroška is in a position today when it is connected with Ljubljana, when only passports and tax liabilities are linked to central Slovenia. Fortunately, there has been a change of power and only this government has begun to think seriously about opening Koroška, this is about building a third development axis project, which is not just a road that is a little more. In the previous system we have witnessed the ignorance of the traffic situation of the region of Koroška and the previous authority has cut off even the railway connection from Velenje to Slovenj Gradac or further to the Otiško vrh. This ignorance of the communist authorities was further enhanced by the LDS. We witnessed some kind of dialectical leap from ignorance to arrogance. The current development of state road infrastructure in Slovenia has only enabled the development of regions along the highway cross, while the remaining areas have reversed, as shown in many indicators of social and economic development in the Republic of Slovenia. The construction of highways has only gone worse for many regions, as the development programme for other state roads has been neglected due to investment in the motorway programme. The resolution says so well that as many as 42% of the network of state roads, the main and regional ones, are in poor or very poor condition, and these areas, of course Koroška too, because of poor accessibility, remain uninterested and uncompetitive due to higher transport costs. People move from these environments and the modern industry does not move into this environment, because better locations can be found nearer airports, closer to other favourable traffic communications. I think that the resolution on transport policy correctly states that in order to make more use of public means of transport, adequate prices, speed, comfort and frequency are needed. I would add that timetables should also be adapted to this. On the railway route from Maribor to Prevalj, trains have been driving at such a driving time for two decades, on such a timetable that they are not suitable for either students or workers, and on every turn of the timetable we are witnessing the termination of individual trains, and so we are witnessing the suspension of trains until the point where this railway connection can also be terminated. We have already witnessed similar matters in the case of railways from Velenje to Slovenj Gradac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nicely greeted! I, too, believe that the proposed resolution is a good basis for so-called, if I may say under terms, implementing transport policy. Whether this document is too general or too principled, as stated by some who have left the meeting, I would only add if this document was too detailed, then it would certainly not have the title of a resolution, but rather a national programme, an implementing act or an implementing document or a set of projects. However, the proposed resolution is certainly a good basis for the Ministry of Transport to work forward. In fact, not only is it a good basis, but it is also a commitment to the Ministry of Transport, the preparation of so-called implementation projects. But I would also briefly touch myself for at least me or the area from which I come, the most problematic topics mentioned in the resolution, these are the so-called problems of road links in Slovenia, and I think this is also quite well presented in the analysis. You know, I'm looking through the prism of the law on coherent regional development. In one of the chapters of this resolution, the introductory phrase begins somehow "that transport or transport links are the basis for economic development". In view of the situation we have today, we can see that this economic development is booming along already built highways, along the so-called highway cross. Well, it was interesting a few months ago to look at the data provided by the government in Brussels regarding the development situation or underdevelopment of individual statistical regions, according to the situation in the area of 12 official statistical regions in Slovenia. We can see that some statistical regions have made considerable progress precisely because of the enormous development in the regional centres themselves. In doing so, I would like to point out that we will be able to achieve development in individual regions just outside the centres on the basis of this, if we also link the other places properly; I am primarily talking about so-called road links. These problems are being encountered in the area of Obsotela and Kozjanska, and if no visible steps are taken in this area to address the problem of transport connections, then despite the progress of the Savina region in three areas with regard to development, certain areas in the so-called expansion in terms of development will only go back. So I kind of expect what I actually think, as I mentioned in the introduction, that this is a so-called second step, that these are national programmes, that these are implementation projects, that our area will also be included in this.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr. Kangler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. It was with great interest that I listened to fellow Members who spoke about the transport resolution. Interestingly, we have spent more or less time on roads alone. I think that in the transport resolution we are adopting today, there are other segments and means of transport and, as such, are written in the resolution that it is not just roads. It is true that the road is one of the most important roads that leads man into the world or from place to place. On the other hand, I do not think that we should ignore other segments of air transport in the Republic of Slovenia, we should not neglect the waterways and waterways at sea, we should not neglect the very important segment of Slovenian railways, railway infrastructure and roads. Finally, I would like to point out that it would be time not only for the local community, the so-called capital of Ljubljana, to join the project, but also for a government project to start thinking about so-called trams or some other local transports in larger centres such as Ljubljana or Maribor. In view of the funding I know, the municipalities have financial means to prevent them from going through such projects as the Ljubljana tram project and the like. It must be the interest of the State to approach these problems as a result of transport infrastructure. And speaking of roads today, I was stabbed by a few words from one of the performers who had been reading about the construction of roads, the use of money and similar things to the previous government. With all responsibility, I must stress the seriousness here that I am very pleased that the Slovenian People's Party, in its previous term and in its previous term, led this area, that we had two ministers and that the current Minister sitting among us today, Mr Mag. Christmas, coming from Dars, I wouldn't want to go directly to individual projects or investments. In general, we can find and also point out personally that the construction of the motorway programme followed a national project, a national programme and interest, and that we have also made serious progress in the Slovenian People's Party's Party not only in this mandate, not only in this government, but also in the previous and previous government. That's why I have to replicate to all those who look at the construction of the highway program in a different way or with different eyes. While I am already on the road, I must stress and, once again, I call on all Members and Members of Parliament, regardless of the coalition or opposition that are members of the Transport Committee, to take a different approach to the rescue and rehabilitation of state roads, in particular regional roads due to the cold, storm and elementary disasters that we can call them during the winter period. As one of the previous interlocutors said, coming from Koroška, the resolution states that infrastructure is somewhat lagging behind in the construction of state roads and that much will have to be done in this area. Indeed, state roads, especially regional roads, are in very poor shape and also earmarked for the budgetary resources that have been spent this financial year, are more or less spent on regular maintenance and rehabilitation before winter, so I hope that the government and the ministry will examine in the shortest possible time all the possibilities for eliminating those injuries on state roads so that those investments that take place at the state level can be carried out on state roads and that this money will not be spent on regular maintenance. Regional state roads should also be built with the construction of the highway programme. We also talked a lot about railways today, we've heard a lot. One of the Slovenian national parties also mentioned the Maribor Airport Rail Transport Agency. The reason why they decided to obstruct themselves must certainly not be the kind of document we have today. I think that it is necessary to approach such a document in a productive manner, to make comments, and I myself, as Chairman of the Committee on Transport at this point, must state that not only have I taken into account, not only the Committee on Transport, but also the public presentation and all the views that have been taken into account by both the public and civil society stakeholders, in the consideration of this document and those programmes and those amendments that have come from the civil committee and other interested public, more or less also in the amendments that are ready to be taken into account. True, however, it is not a document in which any local, local, or other road would be recorded. This is a general document which sets out and outlines guidelines for the development of transport infrastructure in all segments, in the areas of roads, railways, cableways, air transport. Air traffic and railways must be a priority in the next period also in this government, and with not a slightest sense of concern, I am not afraid that this government will bring into the National Assembly a law that would reunite both management rights and operators as regards railways. In my view, some foreign representatives and directives are clearly stated that state infrastructure must be separated from the operator and the utility must be collected in accordance with all the rules and also international acts. We must be aware that we are members of the European Union, and we must also respect the directives. Therefore, I am not afraid that the administrative rights currently enjoyed by the Railway Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which is established in Maribor, would lose these rights. This government consists of such political parties, which, in the pre-election meetings and even in the coalition contract, have stated that we have also, in order to decentralise these branches of government, as I may call it, as well as these projects. The airports were mentioned. Here I must say that I am very disappointed about the airport in our region, the Maribor airport. In my opinion and as a Member of Parliament and as Chairman of the Transport Committee, together with other fellow Members from the other parties, we have done everything we can to inform ourselves, as parliamentarians, of the problems and problems at the Maribor airport. That is why we also had a field meeting directly at the airport. However, the trend in airports in Europe is that in 2000 statistics show that transport and economic growth and growth at airports in Europe increased by 10%. It is interesting that the Ljubljana airport departs from the European average. In 2005, the airport of Ljubljana increased its growth by 20%, which is good data, and all praise goes to both the airport and all the services that have joined the project in any way. The Maribor airport did not increase traffic, on the contrary. There is absolutely nothing going on at Maribor Airport. In some segments, the State or government or the Ministry has taken care of certain state investments, to modernise equipment belonging to State infrastructure and to state ownership. I am personally aware that the development of the Maribor airport is so important in our region that in this place I am also politely asking the Minister and the entire government to do their utmost to relax and allow the relationship between the government and the ministry, and on the other hand, the Maribor Airport Administration, to be set up as soon as possible, and that the airport will start operating normally and that there will be both economic, freight and passenger traffic at this airport. This is very important for economic development, not only of the Maribor regions, but of the entire northeastern Slovenia, Styria, Prekmurje and Koroška. Why am I speaking in this place, and why have I highlighted the Maribor airport in particular? I must stress in particular that this is an important project that takes place in the municipality of Hoče, also led by Mayor Obreht with some others, the so-called land logistics centre. This is not the land logistics centre of the municipality of Hoče or the Maribor region, but it is the land logistics centre of the Republic of Slovenia, which lies in the area of the municipality of Hoče. It is such an important centre, because in the immediate vicinity of 300 hectares of land, both railways, motorways and only airports, and according to the upgrade of the motorway program, Luka Koper is only two hours away from driving heavy trucks from the Maribor airport to the port. In particular, I would like to point out that there is a need to emphasise and implement some of the sub-legislative acts necessary in the field of aviation in order to develop this infrastructure branch. Here I must point out that last year we found that there are more than 40 sub-legislative acts missing in the field of aviation. According to the information I have, and following the Ministry of Transport's assurance, more than half of the sub-laws have already been adopted. Therefore, I also expect that, in accordance with this resolution adopted, a project and programme will also be carried out in parallel, and the tasks assigned to it by the Ministry of Transport, with a view to the early adoption of sub-legislative acts in the field of aviation, thereby enabling the development of airport infrastructure. In the case of airport infrastructure, I expect that, in the planning of budgetary resources, the government will spend slightly more State resources on investments both at the Brno, Maribor and Portoro airport over the next budget period. We must not neglect that we have three important airports for the development of tourism and economy in Maribor. For the development of Slovenian tourism, however, it is mainly an airport in Portoro, where 50-seat aircraft, so-called reactive, cannot yet land. This is particularly important for so-called "airplane congresses", where passengers or participants arriving at these congresses serve the aircraft and arrive directly at a congress with a passenger plane. As one of the segments of the resolution, it is also important to stress the important means of travel that serve mainly tourism, such as cableways on ski slopes or gondolas, which transport tourists from the valley to the top of the slope or vice versa. In this area, I expect the Ministry of Transport to verify all the laws governing the use of cableways in the Republic of Slovenia. In the past, there have been quite a number of difficulties in obtaining equipment or importing equipment from some neighbouring countries, especially under-law acts that have made it too difficult to use such or other devices to release imports of such equipment that are sufficient to meet all the needs of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular having to comply with certain international standards concerning the safety of traffic by passengers on so-called cableways. The waterways and, above all, the voyages, should not be neglected that we also have waterways in the Republic of Slovenia, where they can be used for navigation mainly in terms of the use of the river in the development of tourism. For once, I think it is most important to pay particular attention to both sides of the link, as indicated by the resolution itself and this document to state roads, motorways, railways, by connecting Luka Koper, which does not matter only for the region, for Primorsko, but for the whole Slovenian economy or for Central Europe. And if I have already highlighted, given that we have also received an amendment from Mr Weber and that I have read it thoroughly, I must say that the amendment is appropriate to support it, to give it the opportunity and opportunity to write in a document such as the transport policy resolution, also on the possibility of other axes, especially third axes and others, where the government can prepare such developmental acts and projects as the three eighths, the third and the other eighths, to continue. The third development axis goes from Koroška across Slovenia towards the south, towards Croatia and it is very important that these legs, which bind both to the highway programme and to state and other roads, to railways and also airports to connect and thus release economic, tourist and other developments. This can be a good journey and a perspective for the Slovenian economy of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. In the resolution on transport policy, we really believed that we wanted to participate constructively in its preparation and adoption in the National Assembly. Of course, content is changing from government to government and we would like to see the way of the resolution already adopted in the previous government, in fact. However, the way is that it is difficult to enforce something that the current government does not decide, so we have come to the point that we prefer to try to design and participate in the preparation of a new current transport policy. Of course, transport policy is extremely important, as we have already said many times today, both for the development of Slovenia and such, and our goal is true, that we are trying to draw a challenge by which we place Slovenia between those countries that want to remain a hub of transport, a centre which, of course, allows for the development of both the economy and society as well as such. And Slovenia has that position. We must be aware that Slovenia's advantage is also in that it came earlier into the European Union's circle than some countries, which could also be followed by important European corridors. And this is the advantage which, of course, we want to highlight in particular and highlight in the resolution on transport policy. More, of course, about this in individual amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u143	Thank you. And Mr. Secretary, do you want to discuss it? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! In the context of this general debate, you have expressed the satisfaction of individuals that the Republic of Slovenia will adopt a resolution on transport policy, which is actually a covert document in the field of transport and responds to the requirements of modernisation, liberalisation and integration of existing transport systems into an operational whole. However, critical opinions and views on the document submitted were also expressed. The transport policy resolutions are clear that they do not contain tangible measures to prepare implementing documents in specific transport areas, so that they do not contain specific tasks with specific deadlines and intended resources for them. You also believe that transport policy does not sufficiently address rail infrastructure and the development of state road infrastructure, especially in relation to the links between specific areas and the motorway network. On the contrary, Slovenia, as a country, is aware of the importance of the macroeconomic effects of the operation of transport systems and the quality of services in passenger and freight transport, and therefore the motioners of the resolution believe that it is necessary to integrate, connect, ensure a more important role for rail transport and modernise and upgrade rail infrastructure, and ensure a balanced relationship between users in road transport, regulate a single system of freeway toll collection and modernise and upgrade the state road network. We also support the proposed amendment. As I have pointed out several times before, the resolution on transport policy is a covert document. By adopting this transport policy, it will also be possible to verify all implementing documents to verify that they follow the guidelines set out therein. And that I think is the most important novelty and value of this document. It will ensure that the transport sector develops in the direction of the objectives and measures set and will no longer be left to the interests of the daily policy. Perhaps even in the conclusion of this debate, I can note with satisfaction that there remains a genuine will in this National Assembly to adopt the Resolution on Transport Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the umbrella document in the field of transport policy, as soon as possible, and that I am extremely pleased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u145	Thank you. This concludes the general debate and brings us to the debate on the chapters and amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 26 April 2006. I am putting sub-chapter 1.1 to the debate. Challenges of time and the amendment of the Social Democrats' parliamentary group. Who wants a word, of course, of the Members whose parliamentary groups still have time? Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u146	A brief justification for that. Our goal is indeed to make Slovenia an important logistics centre. And this amendment makes it possible, it's a real challenge. More on individual paths, however, in the next amendment, which we will also get fixed on the bench and is in line with all interested parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr. Root.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u148	The proposal to complete the chapter Challenges of Time is very interesting. But I do have some concerns about this chapter. That Slovenia really becomes one such European logistics and distribution centre, I fear it will also bring a series of negative consequences, which I find rather questionable. The first thing that seems important to me at a centre like this is that it certainly means a very large increase in traffic. And given the current state of our roads, when there was talk about what railways we have, and that most freight traffic is on the road and there is no prospect for improvement, that would certainly be a negative consequence. The other thing is that it can be a kind of thing because of certain content that the center would have, including ecologically controversial things, which is certainly also very questionable. We know about Luka Koper's waste of iron, radioactive waste and so on, so it would be a little more profound to think about in this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u149	Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. I'll be very brief. I think it's the opposite. For traffic is as short as possible, and the worst thing is that we have the situation as we have it now, when we have this enormously increasing freight traffic and we have not been prepared for it. It is better to prepare, knowingly, with all the fuses, with infrastructure facilities and all environmental protection measures against unpleasant effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u151	Thank you. I am closing the debate and moving on to the debate on sub-chapter 2.1 - Results of the analysis and the amendment of the Social Democrats Group. In doing so, I remind you that the amendment is now being reproduced. If you don't mind, I'll read the correction before you get it on the bench. The amendment reads as follows: "In addition to the resolution already adopted on the national programme for the construction of motorways, the development of the third axis, third axis A, third axis B and fourth traffic axis, which will connect the regions in Slovenia, Austria, Italy, Croatia, and will allow road transport of these regions to be linked to the main European transport route." Are you asking us to wait for the amendment to come to the table? This one's a bit fixed, a few words new. I think we can put it to the debate. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u152	Perhaps also because I know the contents of this amendment, but I can say that it has been produced in a wide range of colleagues and colleagues, and also in the cooperation of representatives of the government or the ministry, so that this correction is indeed one that is supposed to reflect the correct placement in the text itself and not least to achieve the goal that we have, I think that we are very much in common to allow for the most balanced development of transport across the country and thus to prevent in fact excessive traffic concentrations in specific areas, and thus we can also cause an ecological problem. However, if this is evenly distributed, all the conditions are met for us to be able to accept significantly larger volumes of traffic under substantially more acceptable conditions that we can place in the premises in these regions, as provided for in the amendment. This is the third development axis from Koroška to Dolenjska, the third A development axis that deals with the Kočevska area, and the third B, which talks about Kozyanska, and the fourth, which talks about the Idrije-Cerkljan region or coastal and mountain area. In short, an important substantive amendment that truly allows for a more active transport policy in this area and not just on the main transport routes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Janc, there's not much time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Personally and also in the Group of Members, we consider this correction to be appropriate and meaningful. If we are talking about the balanced development of Slovenia, and this is what we want in this government and this Parliament, then this amendment needs to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u155	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote in half an hour, which is at 17.50, 10 minutes before 6. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 5.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u156	Dear Members and honourable Members! We're continuing our session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We continue with the end of the 14th item of the agenda - to consider the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 57, paragraph 3, and paragraph 5, of the Income Act. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads as follows: The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 57, paragraph 3, and Article 57, paragraph 5, of the Income Act shall not be adopted. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on elections to the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the electoral law to the National Assembly, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. Before voting, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 80(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposed decision will be adopted if two thirds of all Members vote for it, 60 or more Members. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u157	Your Honor! I suggest you give ten minutes' rest before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u158	Explanations shall be made to the vote. Before the vote, I will give the required leave of 10 minutes. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] I'm taking a ten-minute recess for a consultation in the parliamentary group. We'll continue the meeting at 6.03 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, please take your seats. Does the motioner want an explanation break? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 60 votes against 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item on the agenda, which is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the transport policy of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to the motion for a resolution. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to subsection 1.1 - Challenges of time. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. This is going to be wrong. Excuse me. It was a mistake because it was set for a two-thirds majority. I'm sorry. Once again, we turn to the vote on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to sub-chapter 1.1 - Challenges of time. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 52 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 7. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Socialist Group of Members to subsection 2.1 - Results of the analysis. Mrs. Potrata, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u160	Thank you. I would not advertise if the Group of Members were not running out of time, but I would like to express my support for this amendment, because also in the positive opinion of the Government, I see that it insists on the statement that the Minister has written to me in response to the question that the 3b transport axis for the development of this part of Slovenia from Šentjur v Dobovac is essential and that it is possible to attach also to those the thesis that we see in tourism a special development opportunity for Slovenia. The share of income generated by Rogaška Slatina and the second part of medical tourism in Kozjanska is so important that with improved infrastructure the proportion of guests arriving in this part of Slovenia will also be retained and increased. This fulfills, as it is said, the promises and forecasts of better development opportunities for a part that has recently been hit by a blow, and I think of the glass-glass Rogaška Slatina, whose achievements have been known, but we know what they are in, and there are many other things that cannot be achieved. Let us hope that at least the infrastructure improves not too promising a picture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-03-SDZ4-Redna-16.ana.u161	Thank you. Anyone else? We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a resolution on the transport policy of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the resolution would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, this is on the exploratory proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on cooperation with civil, global, satellite, navigation system GNSS between the European Community and its member states and the State of Israel. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. (For the vote was 51.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. At the end of the day, this is on the defence proposal of the Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank, the Autoroad Project VII - Slovenia. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. On the exploratory proposal of the GNSS system between the European Community and its member states and Ukraine, this is an agreement on the ratification of the agreement on cooperation with the civil global satellite navigation system. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT IS AT THE CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL RELEVANT WORDS OF THE LAW. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The officially consolidated text of the price control law is confirmed. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the State Prosecutor's Office Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The formal text of the Industrial Property Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Asylum Act is officially consolidated. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 2. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the agricultural law is confirmed. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents is officially clarified. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The formal text of the securities market law is confirmed. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Secret Data Act is officially clarified. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 61 for them, against no one. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the law on access to information of a public nature is officially clarified. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 62 for them, against no one. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the third item on the agenda - this is the third reading of the proposal for a law on the mass valuation of property. On Friday 21 April 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would be inconsistent with the amendments adopted on the basis of the domestic working body. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 48 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 16th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and wish you a pleasant day.
