ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u1	Fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the continuation of the 14th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that the following Members and Members may attend the meetings today: Roberto Battelli, Zvonko Černač, Matjaž Han, Ferry Horvat, Bojan Kontič, Alojz Posedel, Maria Possonec, Bogomir Zamernik. We're moving to 8. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the regulation of certain questions related to the construction of the railway network and the construction of the second rail track at the distance of the copier - the savage. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with a first-signed Happy Friend. With regard to this law, the Transport Committee proposes to the national assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I continue to give the floor to the representative of the law's proposers for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The law did not really receive the necessary support on the labour force, but it would be interesting if they could be present on this committee, as some voted almost against with tears. But why do we need a marriage? We need the law because the government has no serious intentions to do this section, which is the second track of Koper - Divac, and it does not postpone it until 2008. We have money, we actually have 5.5 million euros waiting since 2004, we have a confirmed location plan and, of course, we also have a chosen variant, so called 1 through 3, which is an appropriate, majority flat, so tunnel, and would also meet the needs that the port clearly expresses in the daily greater need for this transport support. The port is estimated to lose 100,000 tons a month, this is of no interest to anyone, because it does not have a suitable "sport", it rejects essentially the ship and, of course, the corresponding multiplier factor decreases in the economy. And the government even, even so, allows the minister to write in writing, to stop all calls pending until the necessary documentation is confirmed. Although this letter is not cancelled, the relevant documentation is confirmed and in our party we believe that this is an indescribable economic damage that is causing. This is not a coastal project, it is an All-Slovenian project and, of course, if we do not build this route in due course, then we do not need it later. The Minister will only be able to drive to the sea, because this is already leaking to us on the so-called Pontepsian track, and Italy has already shown great aspirations to make a priority link between Trieste and Kopro. As the law has already said, allowing an immediate approach to land purchases, we demand that the budget ensure participation for our work and release the funds that have been waiting for us since 2004, to start with the purchase of land, to start with geodetic research, in short, to start preparing also and producing fissibility studies on deposits that will be needed in drilling waste tunnels, and we can do this now, we do not need to wait two years to wait again for two years. Since 2004, we have postponed spending to 2006, and the Minister claims that this project will not be seriously implemented until 2008. So, as long as those who have looked at the law see that the law ensures the transparency of spending, which the government probably does not want, so only 160 billion difficult projects, the government would like to have this money somewhere on the market and spend it at its discretion, of course it does not want to be managed by those who are empowered and therefore established, this is the railway agency, which intends to set up some new financial company that is supposed to drive it. In short, this is delayed for some period of the expiry of this mandate, and I don't even know how the Minister will ensure this construction if the mandate goes and the law is also needed because tomorrow other governments will come and, in fact, if we have laws, there is a budgetary obligation to provide funds in the following budgets. However, if this law does not exist, this problem will be set aside in another time dimension and see, just for example, for roads, we have approved a billion euro if we were really good hosts to run both projects at the same time, 500 million euros for railways and 500 euros for roads and projects. So we're going to build highways that I'm going to destroy tomorrow morning, and we're not going to need railways, because the cargo is already going to be diverted to other transit routes. [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] And there's something else about the safety of the existing one, but later on, technically, I'm gonna see that I'm out of time, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Government representatives are also present, so I welcome them. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u4	Thank you, Chairman. It is unusual that we do not have on the agenda a presentation of the report of the working body, the Committee on Transport and on the phone, and I have been able to find out that our secretary has given it up in time and has also reported, so decide whether you will give the representative of the Committee on Transport a word or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u5	Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u6	I think that a proposal should be put to the vote. The matter improves the quality of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u7	Just one moment, please. They'll let me know right away. I'm just asking for some patience.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u8	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u9	Please. I would like to inform you, in view of this comment, on a procedural basis, that there was no application at the College of the President of the National Assembly, which is why my representative of the Government, the Beast, does not have a say in this scenario. There's no such thing as the rules of procedure. So much for an explanation, please. One more time. According to the Rules of Procedure, what I have told you is only a presentation of the views of the groups of Members and the views before this already proposed and nothing more, and please, if we can proceed with this scenario. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat, New Slovenia, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the government, welcome! In the New Slovenia Group, we are not inclined to partially resolve rail or motorway systems, so we cannot support the proposal for a law on the regulation of certain issues related to the construction of the railway network and the construction of the second railway track at the distance of Koper - Divača, EPA 615-IV, which was proposed by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and acceptance by the Group of Members. This is a copy of the Act on the regulation of certain issues relating to the construction of the railway line in the direction of Puconci - Hodoš - State border and the addition of the second track of the Koper - Divac railway, published in the Official Journal. 38/96 and 48/98. An assessment has been added with questionable accuracy and this value is 160 billion Slovenian tolars, about 670 million euros or 94% of the value of parts of the road construction and renewal plan for this year. While the proposaler deserves commendation, it means an additional signal on the critical state of railway infrastructure in Slovenia, not only in its western part. We estimate that the signal is well-intentioned that it has been heard by the government, which knows best what situation it has found in the field of rail infrastructure. We are monitoring the work of the government, which is preparing comprehensive solutions to the problem of the construction of public rail infrastructure, as well as the way in which the necessary funding is provided. Due to all the very well-known content of the debates, we do not believe in the honesty of the applicants in considering the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia with the obligations of Dars. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we will vote in favour of the decision of the Committee of the National Transport Council, which notes that the proposal for a law on the regulation of certain issues related to the construction of the railway network and the construction of the second railway track at the distance of Koper - Divac is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Kristijan Janc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Honourable Presidents, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware of the problem, the construction of a second rail track on the Divača - Koper section, especially in the fact that the construction of this railway section ensures the competitiveness of Port Koper as an important Central European port and the increase in the economic development of Port Koper and its associated economic levels throughout the country and beyond. At the same time, however, we believe that the problem of the construction and modernisation of railway infrastructure must be addressed in a comprehensive manner, since it is necessary to take into account the fact that the modernisation of the fifth pillar of the European rail corridor in the country is a complex issue that requires, among other things, the removal of bottlenecks at the distance of Divača - Koper, as well as at other sections. 160 billion is definitely a large sum of money. The initiative is certainly respectful and commendable, and I believe that this proposal will also have the right place as soon as possible and that the project will also be implemented as soon as possible, as this is certainly an important and priority project for Slovenia in this area. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will not support the bill, because we believe that the Minister will keep the promise made on the Transport Committee and will strive that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will accelerate the realisation of the construction and modernisation of railway infrastructure, prepare the necessary project technical documentation and provide the necessary financial resources by hiring loans and funds from the budget, and also take into account the possibility of investing domestic and foreign persons and other sources of financing. In short, we support such a project in the Slovenian People's Party, but in line with the deadlines, which are possible both for the budget and for the ministry and the government as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. So a law that has experienced negative support on the parent’s working body is not just a copy of an existing law, it is not true. We had in some segment covered this issue in the law, which envisaged the construction of the track section Hodos - Puconci and, of course, included the actual issue of the second track. The fact that this issue is not really new is also evidenced by the previous national programme, which has only been implemented by 13%, the government today is talking about solving this with the new national programme in order to essentially include the construction in this project in order to obtain sufficient resources, in short, to propose to the National Assembly a guarantee law to rent credits and, of course, to comprehensively address this problem, but, as has already been said, it will hardly be implemented in 2008, so it is written down, then unfortunately it will be too late. Let us see what the Ministry of Transport or the Ministry of Finance said about this law. "With regard to this material, we report that we have no comments on the proposed content of the law." The Agency has written that it agrees with the bill's proponents that financing the construction of the second track of the Koper-Divač railway connection is necessary and in short necessary. Of course, if we look at the law itself, and that is what it says, it allows for essentially transparent spending, as I already said with the dedicated opening of the account and the dedicated managers of these funds, this would be the railway agency, which is also legally established for such projects and is necessary because it is dragged into several financial years. The law is necessary from this point of view. However, what is a great need and, of course, the desire to start this project immediately is a fact of the technical situation on this track that is currently in use. We must be aware that this is an industrial track that was built for the purposes of the economy at the time, that this line is inadequate according to some technical parameters, that we even have complex data in international instruments allowing international traffic, so on the UIC we have written that this drop is smaller than it actually is. And in the valley of Sokka, we have constant problems with the track. If we look at Lluke Koper's desire and the developmental visions he has, then we can find out that the port of Koper will have to find its own transport routes as soon as possible. Luke, in the Business Diary yesterday published, the River - the one who reads this - has announced great developmental steps and is expected to do what we should do in a year or two: it will start building a second track against Hungary and strongly update its existing infrastructure in the port. So if we are talking about a strategic partner, which is undoubtedly Luke Koper for Slovenian Railways, then this fact already dictates an immediate construction and an immediate approach. Of course, the law itself also allows funding from all other economic factors in this project. As far as you are aware, railways are also becoming public good through the European Community Directive. So we're going to kind of approach the railways in the same way as the roads. In short, there will be a possibility of redemption of routes within the Euro Corridors. And who will buy and buy a route that will not be technically safe? We have prisons, we have repairs, we have extraordinary events, luckily we don't have human casualties. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, no one will want to be held responsible for a tragedy that can happen. And none of the rulers will want to be responsible for economic damage. Why does the government not take on this part of the responsibility? 100,000 tons, as we say, is losing port on the moon of traffic. These are the facts. So, in the Slovenian National Party, we cannot agree with what has been adopted by our mother's working body, and we will continue with our activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Gdydaršič, on behalf of the party DeSUS. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u16	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we welcome the initiative to build a second track, but not in this way. Therefore, we do not agree with the proposal for a law submitted to the legislative procedure by the Members of the Slovenian National Party, nor will we support it, as was the proposal of the Transport and Communications Committee. The applicant justifies the need to adopt this law in particular in order to facilitate the construction of the second track on the Koper-Divac route and thereby to increase the economic development of Luka Koper. The proposal cannot be supported by the fact that its content already covers the existing law on the regulation of certain issues relating to the construction of the railway in the direction of Puconci-Hodoš-State border and the addition of the second track of the Koper-Divač railway. The proposal is also intended to regulate the means of providing dedicated funds for the planned investment, namely, the proposaler estimates that approximately 160 billion Slovenian tolars are needed. In this regard, however, we point out that the Railway Act already defines the State budget as a source of resources for the construction of the new public railway infrastructure, and for this reason we cannot support this proposal. In the framework of its activities, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is preparing amendments and additions to the Rail Transport Act and the Rail Safety Act, and in the final phase the resolution on the national programme for the development of public railway infrastructure is also being prepared and the proposal is clearly premature in this respect. The fact is, without a coordinated transport and transport infrastructure development plan, it is difficult or virtually impossible to take separate decisions. Members of the DeSUS emphasise that the development and construction of railway infrastructure is necessary to address systematically and within this also the early construction of the second track Koper - Divac, as well as Maribor - Gradec. Similarly, existing legislation on the construction of buildings and premises does not require the preparation of laws on the construction of individual infrastructure projects. We would also like to draw attention to yesterday's response by the President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, that, while the EU is also aware of the importance of the fifth corridor, the second track has also been classified among the EU's priority projects, yet it cannot at present assume any obligation to finance this project, given that the financial perspective has not yet been fully agreed upon. In our parliamentary group we estimate that in order to increase the gap over the entire European corridor it is necessary to carry out certain activities throughout the railway network in Slovenia and, of course, not only on the Koper-Divača route, so this thing is covered through our view in this common context. We believe that the early construction of the second track is absolutely necessary and in national interest, especially in terms of relations with neighbouring countries. Nevertheless, in our Group of Members, we believe that the proposed law, although well-intentioned, is immediately unnecessary, materially inaccurate and incomplete for these reasons, so that we will support the decision of the Labour Authority that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor, on behalf of the SDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. Certainly, in the Slovenian Democratic Party and I, too, are very well aware of the importance of this connection of Kopra against Divaci or the connection to the fifth trans-European corridor. This connection is important not only for Luka Koper or for Slovenian railways, which bring most of the cargo right along this route, but also for the whole of Primorska and Slovenia. The fact that this is very important and that it is necessary to build a second track because existing capacities are actually already 100% fully exploited also suggests that the construction of the second track was already envisaged in the Slovenian Railway Infrastructure Development Programme in 1995, after which the second track was to be built by 2000. Unfortunately, there was virtually nothing happening on this second track during this period, and the situation is what we have today. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that this poses a great danger, a threat to the development of the port of Koper, which has in fact already reached the upper limit and the danger of the cargo starting to flow slowly along some other routes. However, we do not think that the law under consideration is necessary. Existing legislation allows us to start building this or any other route. We have a law on space regulation, a law on construction of buildings, and also a law on rail transport provides and allows financing, various forms of financing for the construction of railway infrastructure, so that there are no formal reservations regarding construction. Secondly, it is very important that this second track is in fact only one part which relates to the fifth trans-European rail corridor through Slovenia and the situation on this corridor is all better than before. From Kopra to Maribor we have almost 40 slow rides, from the Wall Bridge to Maribor there are quite a few cities where the base pressure is reduced to 20 tonnes. The route from Prague to Hungary is not electrified, from Maribor to Austria we also have a single track and so on. From this point of view, removing one bottleneck does not mean much. If the congestions on this track are present today, then this will be carried forward across Slovenia and we are confident that it is necessary to move on this corridor in its entirety, not only on the fifth but also on the tenth side. This is precisely what a comprehensive approach to modernising the fifth and tenth corridor provides for a proposal for a new national rail infrastructure development programme, which is in the final stage of preparation, and I am sure that we will soon be addressing it here too. As far as I am aware, among the priorities of this programme is this second track, and given the general willingness to support this construction or resolution of this problem, I do not think there will be any difficulty in adopting this national programme in this Chamber. I would also like to say that it is not true that nothing is happening on the construction of this track, that the track is on the side track. A study on eligibility, an idea project, a document on the identification of an investment project, a national location plan was adopted last April and the European Commission also provided EUR 5.5 million for preparatory work for the preparation of the construction permit. There is also a project to modernise the existing track, which is projected to cost 27.7 billion tolars. So that something is happening, and I think with all these measures, it will be possible to ensure that Luka Koper can continue to develop normally. And if I finish. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are not against the construction of a second track, we are not against the modernisation of infrastructure in any way, but the law as it is, we think it is unnecessary, because it is also partially solving the problem and therefore we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word is given by Dr. Mark Pavlich, on behalf of the LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy Club, we do not understand the carefree attitude of the government and, last but not least, the coalition towards the second track and to the completely friendly political gesture of our colleague Friend. That is why we in the Liberal Democracy Club will object to the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. It is true that the legislative and legal service has had some concerns, some comments, but we are convinced that all these comments could be taken into account in the legislative process, overcome shortcomings and, of course, served by a regulation that would accelerate the construction of an important infrastructure project such as the second track. Indeed, the second track was, according to the previous national programme and by 2004, a godly desire. Why? Because of the price. Then, dear colleagues, it was only the government of Rop and personally that Mr Rob managed to include him among the 30 priority projects of the European Union at the end of April 2004. This godly desire, of course, turned her into a real or a viable project. When the new government came to light when Minister Bozič spoke before the parliamentary committee, it was the end of November 2004 that, I quote from memory, he said that the second track was the bond of this coalition and that he would do everything in his mandate to carry it out. Unfortunately, since November the whole thing has been sinking into oblivion or that I will not repeat myself, I have been rummaging on the sidelines. It is true that the government adopted a location plan in April 2005, which was drawn up by the previous government. According to this location plan, we have witnessed, for the first time, data that the government has not been able to spend a single year or five million euro of cohesion funds. Secondly, we have not observed a single word about the second track in reform measures. Thirdly, that the second track is not mentioned in the transport policy and for the fourth time, a few days ago, if we look at the statement signed by Mr Christmas and Mr Lunardi, we can find that it is obvious that the connection between Trieste and Divest is favoured, or perhaps also for the connection between the two ports, which will of course mean that Luka Koper will become the eighth dock of the port tomorrow. Therefore, we think that it is necessary to stress all the forces alone, without counting on the assistance of the European Union and the European Commission, to remind again Mr Barroso, who yesterday, of course, diplomatically avoided my question and all others, that the second track is not only a project of Slovenia, but that the European Union project is part of the fifth corridor, which is important for many countries, Austria, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Germany, for all countries using Luka Koper, so we must choose it. Of course, if we sit quietly and wait for the European Commission to favour us with some money from the financial perspective, which clearly speaks of projects that are important for more than two or at least two Member States, and then clearly the second track will not be viable, then we can close up Luka Koper, who has already reached the point of saturation and then we can close our Slovenian railways. Therefore, as we say, we will oppose this decision, we will continue to fight in our power to implement this project, to do our utmost. But I am afraid that when I drive back to Primorska this afternoon, I will be expected somewhere along the way to the next hill "where are those trails that used to be, and now grow bushes and burnt grass". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Aurelio Juri has the floor on behalf of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you, Vice President. How, sometimes, with whom, with what to the second track of the railway connection Koper - Divaca or Divaca - Koper, is the question that we have heard in this hall since I have been sitting in it, that is a good 15 years. And each time the answers of the responsible people are promising, courageous, the track is strategic for the national economy, not only for the port and town of Koper or for the coastal economy and the Slovenian Railways, it is also among the priorities in transport infrastructure within the European Union. There is a political consensus for its realization. The best placements of the project into space and resources, including European funding, are sought. Each government writes it in a coalition contract and into its own programme, establishes project documentation, occasionally with it or better, with necessity, after its implementation, we work more closely on the competent transport committee, so that we can at least say something about it. And mandates are on the move, needs for a second track, especially the transhipments in Luka Koper are on the rise. As we have heard, last year we have exceeded 13 million tonnes, the competitiveness of neighbouring ports despite noble calls from Brussels, to the common strategy of the future - we have heard the last of the European coordinators for the fifth corridor De Palaciovo - also due to the delay in building this track is strengthening and we all pray that on the existing route, whose capacities are being updated in spite of such a way and so rapidly approaching the end, nothing happens as an accident or a beach, because the port would be completely cut off from Slovenia and its markets with consequence, enough is a single day of closure, an economic disaster for it and for many who share it. This is a film that we have seen, as I have already said, since the beginning of the previous decade, which tells us that we are the rulers of all beautiful words and intentions, but weak in their application, and yet in all this story something is really moving, and it is not yet seen either in the right or in the wrong direction. It is certainly poor and surprising, given all the direction and government's statements so far, that the second track is not seen in the latest transport policy proposal. Otherwise, we'll talk about it publicly next week in this room. It is good to talk about it at each European meeting when we talk about the fifth corridor and to include it in declarations of intentions or in more binding arrangements, thus transferring the burden of domestic cash into Europe in order to realize it. However, I do not know whether the ministers for the transport of Slovenia and Italy, Bozič and Lunardija have signed their good intentions at the recent meeting of the Traffic Quadrilateral in Trieste, in favour of the unfortunate project so far or vice versa, to its detriment. The establishment of an intergovernmental commission to plan activities in the construction of the Trst-Divac and Divac-Koper track as a connection to it, as far as it sounds encouraging, can sooner reject - and this is also our fear - as it accelerates the start of work on our route. Therefore, the question to the Minister, who is unfortunately not here today, could tell us a lot about this meeting, how our government intends to protect our interest or what guarantees are in the joint declaration that the tracks will be treated equally. However, we now have before us a proposal for a law that, irrespective of what is agreed in Trs, indicates some concrete way to resolve the dilemma of how to implement the project. Indeed, it offers some very bold solutions that would still be considered and found ways to make them easier or more sustainable to place in the financial capacity of the country, experience the intensification of the praises of all, including governments, but is eventually eliminated by the Transport Committee's decision that it is not suitable for further consideration, since the Government is expected to provide better regulation with new legislation on rail transport and safety in it or with a resolution on the national programme for the development of public railway infrastructure. Well, I'm not going to shorten your time and tell you why this track is important and what damage we can all face if we don't do it as soon as possible. All I am saying is that we will oppose the decision of the Transport Committee, because despite our boldness, the bill before us is worthy of our attention and worth further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 17th agenda or no later than 16.15 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Second defense of the proposal for a law on the supervision of strategic goods of special importance for safety and health. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Hello, Minister Mag. Mr Bručan, with my colleagues, and at the same time, I give the representative of the Government the floor for further explanation. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u24	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! In the introduction, a few words on the proposal for a law on the control of strategic goods are of particular importance for safety and health. The global regime for the control of international trade in chemicals, biological substances and technology for their production, as well as the use to prevent their abuse to threaten the health and lives of people in terrorist, military and criminal activities, consists of two basic rules and several non-contractual international regimes. The basic rules of world regulation are the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on its Destruction, which was adopted by the international community in 1997. That year, the Republic of Slovenia also became its Party. Second, the second basic provision is the Convention on the Prohibition of the bacteriological, biological and toxic weapons stockpiles and on their destruction in 1972, which was ratified by the former SFRJ in 1974 and transferred by Slovenia after its independence to its legal order. In addition to these two conventions, the Republic of Slovenia is also of particular importance to the so-called Australian Group, which operates on the basis of both Conventions and exercises intensive control of the chemicals and biological substances of their lists, and independently decides to control certain substances, equipment and technology. This is an agreement of a non-contractual nature which includes the said number of members who meet the strict conditions for the accession itself. In 1999, the Republic of Slovenia operationalised the implementation of the Chemical Weapons Convention by means of a Chemical Weapons Act, while it had not yet adopted appropriate national implementing legislation for the implementation of the Biological Weapons Convention. In April 2004, Slovenia became a member of the Australian Group, and in May of the same year the Council Regulation establishing a Community regime for the control of exports of goods and technology for their use entered into force in the European Union. Specific Regulation. The current regime for the control of strategic goods of particular importance for safety and health is inconsistent with the European Union's legal order concerning the control of the transfer of chemicals within the European Union, as it is regulated by the Chemical Weapons Act adopted before Slovenia enters the European Union and thus into the Single Market. In the absence of all implementing rules, in the case of biological weapons and dual-use goods, the national control regime and the export of certain groups of chemicals and biological substances are also incomplete for their implementation and control by several competent authorities. In order to address these inconsistencies, it was reasonable to consider a new and comprehensive law that would bring together and integrate all those regimes for these substances and technologies and combine the powers to implement them in a single body. After more than three decades, implementing legislation should be put in place to implement the Biological Weapons Convention, which is one of the basic conditions for membership in the Australian Group and still one of the remaining unfulfilled at the time of the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed law is the synthesis of all the above-mentioned international control regimes, with the work of the implementing regime for the export of strategic goods, the law is based on the legal order of the European Union. The proposed law establishes a basic framework for the control of chemicals and biological substances, equipment and technology, and also controls the permissible use of certain strategic goods for the purposes of maintaining public order and peace. The proposed law consistently prohibits the misuse of strategic goods as means of mass destruction, while at the same time allowing the control of all life stages of strategic goods, all activities involving strategic goods and entities engaged in strategic activities, which is also important. In order to exercise control, the proposed law provides for a number of mechanisms to be applied according to the importance of individual goods or strategic activities for the purposes of the law. Restrictive mechanisms are intended only for those materials and activities for which they are required by international rules and which, because of their characteristics and importance for the purposes of this Act, require particular attention and thereby tighter supervision. For all others, the law allows for a milder approach, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also allows certain exceptions to be identified in which these mechanisms can be replaced by milder, more general or sometimes even allowed. However, for these mechanisms, it is most important that they do not constitute almost any restrictions on the business of the debtors, since the conditions which are not checked in advance by law give the State authorities powers and controls to ensure security. The law also lays down a single competent authority for the implementation of these regimes, thereby eliminating certain double procedures and the so far unclear competences with regard to strategic goods. Despite the complex content and the required mission, the implementation fully relies on existing capacities in the already existing body responsible for chemicals and through the coordination mechanism includes a number of ministries and professional services, which also have different powers and tasks in the areas covered by this law. The Republic of Slovenia has no chemical and biological weapons and does not develop such programmes, but it has a well-developed chemical industry and is an important producer and exporter of chemicals and technology. The consistent implementation of the obligations of conventions and other agreements is not only a fulfilment of international obligations, but mainly in its health, safety, economic and, of course, political interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ljubo Germić, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At its 11th regular meeting, on 17.2.2006, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the proposal for a law on the control of strategic goods of particular importance for safety and health submitted to the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee took note of the written opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which made comments on the 14th article of the Act. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also stressed at the Committee's meeting that the comments were mostly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. On behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Mr Dorijan Marušič, gave an introductory explanation to the draft law. Amendments of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS coalition groups and LDS members were tabled within a certain period of time. Following the debate and the vote, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition and, after discussion, drafted its amendment to Article 19. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Health Committee has set out the complementary text of the bill, which is now under consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Michael Prevc has the floor. Please. SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice-President, Minister-in-Charge with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Strategic goods, in particular strategic substances such as chemicals, micro-organisms and toxins, have played an important role in shaping global policy in recent years. Let me just mention the arguments of those countries that started the war on Iraq on the basis of the claim that this country has weapons of mass destruction, namely chemical and biological substances that could be used as a means of mass destruction. In doing so, I do not wish to draw attention to the question whether such funds exist or not in that country, but I would like to stress that biological and chemical resources can be very dangerous and pose a serious threat. Therefore, the control of the production, transport and use of these substances must be well regulated. This area should also be properly regulated in Slovenia. The area of trade in chemicals, biological substances and technology for their production and use is regulated internationally by two basic conventions and a number of other documents. One of the conventions is short-circuited by the Chemical Weapons Convention and the other by the Biological Weapons Convention. Slovenia is a signatory to both conventions. In particular, the problem of our regulation of this area stems from the fact that individual measures or individual supervisory regimes have been regulated as separate wholes in our legal order, i.e. unrelated to others. Thus, we have a very unclear situation in Slovenia, and above all an uncoordinated situation with regard to the control over the implementation of regulations in this area. In addition to the two conventions mentioned above, Slovenia has joined the Australian group, and we are also subject to European legislation on certain obligations in this area. The proposed law that we are considering today is therefore necessary and necessary. In our view, the law is well regulated in the field of chemical and biological control. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the law is of a very professional nature, as it covers a specific problem. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the government has prepared a good proposal for a law that will regulate the area sufficiently. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will therefore be supported by the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u29	Mr Franz Jazbec has the floor on behalf of the SDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the SDS Group, we will support the proposal for a law on the control of strategic goods of particular security importance. The draft law establishes a framework for the control of chemicals, biological substances, equipment and technologies that can be used as means of mass destruction because of their characteristics or in connection with the production and use of such funds. The basic objective of the bill is to prevent the abuse of those goods for the production and use of means of mass destruction. The proposer shall, by means of a proposal for a law in one regulation and in a single system, merge the regimes and procedures for the control of individual groups of strategic goods. The proposal for a law introduces several mechanisms for the control of strategic goods which are model and can be used and adapted where necessary, taking into account the importance of individual goods for the purposes of the law. The Republic of Slovenia does not have chemical weapons, but has a well-developed chemical industry and the development of intensive international economic relations, so it is consistent to implement obligations arising from obligations and other agreements, both in its economic and political and security interests. For activities involving strategic goods of particular security importance, the proposed law introduces several conditions and restrictions to prevent the misuse of such goods. This highlights a controlled environment that ensures that only activities that comply with all the requirements of this law and international rules are carried out at one time. By implementing these restrictions, the Republic of Slovenia shall directly prevent potential violators or at least minimise the possibilities for their operation, while at the same time allowing for the free and unrestricted operation of all other debtors who carry out the authorisation of activities with strategic materials. The bill that we are considering today introduces a comprehensive approach as it prevents the control of all life stages of strategic goods and all activities involving strategic goods. In its basic approach, the draft law aims preventively. The Control Act also focuses on entities carrying out a strategic activity that is thus limited not only to one activity but also to the control of strategic goods and activities. Despite the complex content and the difficult mission of implementation itself, the bill is very rational. In order to implement its provisions, it does not point to new structures and bodies, but in these provisions it fully relies on existing capabilities, which it links and, in particular, encourages their cooperation in the field of expertise. One of the most important advantages of the proposed law compared to the regulation so far is that of the provisions laid down by one competent authority for the implementation of all supervisory arrangements. In addition to the central competent authority, a number of ministries and professional services have different responsibilities and responsibilities in the areas covered by this Act through the coordination mechanism in addition to the implementation of the law. The law thus provides for one competent authority to implement these regimes, thereby eliminating certain double procedures and so far unclear competences in relation to strategic goods. At the same time, the law introduces new or additional control procedures for the uncovered stages of the life cycle of strategic goods. On the basis of this, we will fully support the draft law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again! In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support the proposed law in our work, which includes the adoption of an international convention in our legal order and thus establishes a basic framework for the control of chemicals and biological substances, equipment and technologies that can be used as means of mass destruction or in connection with the production and use of these funds. We support the basic objective of the law, which prevents the misuse of these strategic goods with a particular security importance for the production, use of means of mass destruction. The implementation of the obligations of conventions and other agreements is primarily in our economic, political and security interests. In the LDS, we would like to point out in particular the provisions of the law, which we believe are poorly thought out and thus do not provide the best solution to the law. Already in the context of the discussion and consideration on the labour market, we have pointed out the ambiguity of the text of Article 7 of the draft law, namely the position of possible abuses of strategic activities that could occur in the maintenance of public order and peace in accordance with the rules governing the reasons and manner in which these activities are carried out. We believe that the proposed text of Article 7 still allows for a different interpretation because the proposed authorisation and strategic activities for the maintenance of public order and peace remain unexplained and still controversial. Despite the addition of this indent to the meeting of the home working body, in order to allow for the use of public order and peace to the extent and in the manner provided for in the specific regulations, we consider such a provision to be too broad in the LDS. We believe that it was necessary to clearly record that the provisions of the Police Act were being applied. Only this provides that police officers are entitled to use coercive means in performing their duties and when gas may be used. Therefore, we believe that the reference to the law on police in this case is more appropriate. In the LDS, we would also like to draw attention to provisions relating to reporting on annual strategic activities carried out, which, in our opinion, leads to additional administration and introduction of new records and reports. The Chemical Act specifically deals with reporting obligations, so the provision of Article 18 of the Law could only constitute a duplication of the administrative work of the debtors, which is directly contrary to the proposed Government's proposed framework for economic and social reforms and its assessment that the Slovenian economy is too regulated and pooled. In this context, the proposed law has not yet achieved one of the objectives set by the current government, which is to reduce bureaucratic barriers. Let us recall that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also written the following in the context of economic and social reforms to increase prosperity in Slovenia. I quote, the Slovenian economy is too regulated and the bureaucracy of the business environment limits entrepreneurial development. The existing market economy and the bureaucratic state are therefore becoming increasingly a carrier of old, developmental pitfalls, and should become a source of new development capabilities and opportunities. End of quote. From this point of view, we also point out the long deadlines set out in Article 17, whereby a business entity operating on a competitive market must announce any strategic activity 90 days before the end of the calendar year for the following year. The words of this and also of Article 15 deviate from the basic purpose of all restrictive laws. These should be written in such a way as to prevent illegal activities, but at the very least they impede those business entities wishing to carry out permitted activities under the law. In our view, a period of 30 days would be acceptable before the intended start of a certain authorised activity. Therefore, we regret that our amendment to Article 18 has not been adopted on the home labour body, as its implementation will only lead to additional administration and introduction of new records and reports, i.e. to causing unnecessary additional costs and work, both in the state administration and in the case of the debtors. Data on the production of the chemical office are already obtained under the chemical law and the relevant regulation. The Chemical Act states that the collection of data under the Regulation is "sorted" for the transmission of data to other resources, and this is not about this, but about their own use. In the LDS, we therefore regret that it has not listened to our warnings at the Health Committee meeting, because unnecessary bureaucracy and additional administration will not contribute to Slovenian economic interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Aurelio Juri has the floor on behalf of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u34	Colleagues, colleagues. The weakness pointed out by the drafter of the law that we do not yet have the implementing legislation adopted and the non-designated competent authority for the implementation of the Biological Weapons Convention is, of course, to be addressed. For this reason, the Social Democrats agree with the basic objective of this law, where to prevent the misuse of these strategic goods with a particular security importance for the production and use of means of mass destruction. One of the speakers also reminded us of another abuse, the abuse of this danger to justify some of the goals or lies that the Iraqi attackers justified the attack with, and I am grateful to him, but I would also like to remind all of us, by the way, so that we have a little bit of news that we have also attached this lie with the support of the Vilnius Declaration, by the way. Otherwise, we agree with the warnings at the meeting of the home working body that Article 7 of the law on permitted strategic activities is somewhat unclear, so we will support the amendment of the LDS colleague, because we believe that it is more appropriate to allow strategic activity to be bound to the law on police than to the specific regulations on the maintenance of public order and peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor on behalf of New Slovenia. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to the minister and the coworkers, nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law establishes a framework for the control of chemicals, biological substances of equipment and technology which, due to their characteristics, can be used as a means of mass destruction or in connection with the production and use of such funds. The basic objective of the law pursued by it is to prevent the abuse of such goods for the production and use of mass destruction. The proposal combines all systems and procedures for the control of individual groups of strategic goods, which have been regulated in the Republic of Slovenia so far by different rules and carried out by different competent authorities. The law introduces several mechanisms for the control of strategic goods and can be used and adapted where necessary, taking into account the importance of individual goods. The law lays down one competent authority for the implementation of these regimes, thus eliminating certain double procedures and so far unclear competences with regard to strategic goods, which is undoubtedly beneficial in view of the sensitive subject matter. The well-developed chemical industry in our country and the development of international economic relations are reasons for consistent compliance with international and other agreements. This is both in our economic, political and security interests. Despite certain costs that will arise through the establishment and maintenance of certain measures, which will primarily be addressed by reallocations of existing human resources and financial capabilities, it is particularly necessary to have the advantages of the new regime ahead of sight. In general, it is important to assess that the law, despite its complex content and its difficult mission in implementation itself, is rational. It does not establish new structures and bodies for implementation, but relies on existing capabilities in these provisions, which it links and, above all, encourages their cooperation in the field of expertise. The basic objective of the law is to prevent the abuse of this strategic goods of particular security importance for the production and use of means of mass destruction and the law will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of the review of the amendments of 2.3.2006. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. Who wants a word? Mr. Germich. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So we adopted an amendment on the working body, which certainly improved the text of the fourth indent of Article 7. So I'm sure. Of course, at least I was very dissatisfied when we did not get a clear and precise answer from the representatives of the government as to which of the rules on which this fourth indent is based, which states that, in order to maintain public order and peace, to the extent and in the manner laid down in the specific rules on the maintenance of public order and peace, strategic activities can therefore be carried out. As it follows from this indent that the use of strategic activities is permitted for the maintenance of public order and peace, while it should be noted that, by definition of Article 6(2), the use and use of strategic goods are also part of strategic activities, and Articles 1 and 2 also include means of mass destruction. When the proponents tried to explain to us, they cited cases where this could be used, and they also cited in particular that it would be possible and possible to provide equipment from this area to our units when they participate in some international actions or these international control procedures where this equipment is one of the or prescribed and necessary equipment that these units must have. Applicants say that if these provisions were not in law, then these units could simply not be equipped with the means required and this would pose a significant problem for us to be involved in these peace processes. They also refer to the provisions of the law, and the law on the police also refers to the arms law. Of course, such interpretations did not give a clear, explicit picture of when and for what purposes the use of strategic activities could occur, so we have tabled an amendment that complements this fourth indent in terms of explicitly stating that the fourth indent is: "To maintain public peace and peace to the extent and in the manner set out in the Police Act." As the Police Act in Article 50 provides that police officers are entitled to use coercive means in performing their duties, and paragraphs 51b and 51c below state when gas may be used. We therefore believe that the text of the law, which would include the amendment of the fourth indent of Article 7, is clearer in this sense. Of course, if there were any misunderstandings in this particular article, I would, of course, ask the proposer, i.e. the representative of the government, to explain clearly today what areas this is about, on the basis of which the rules will be implemented by this fourth indent, of course, there will be no doubt about the interpretation of the fourth indent of this Article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u39	Thank you very much. He wants a word, Mr. Secretary? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u40	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you so much for saying that. I would just like to give a brief answer to Mr Germić's question. The proposed amendment by reference to the same legal order, and this to the law on police, in our opinion, combines specific rules on the maintenance of public order and peace into a single law and thus restricts the application of the provisions of other applicable rules in this field. Here it is possible to list only the Police Powers Rules, which specify in more detail the use of a gas dispenser for the police; the Defence Act, which, under conditions prescribed for the police, defines the tasks and powers of the military police in the protection of military facilities; or, for example, in the process, such as the proposal for a law on the protection of public order and peace, which also defines broader powers for the maintenance of public order and peace. The adoption of this amendment with the reference number of the Official Journal, in which the Police Act was published, would also constitute a requirement that any amendment to the Police Act also amend the Strategic Goods Control Act of particular importance for safety and health. This law would also be forced to amend this amendment whenever any new law on the maintenance of public order and peace was included in provisions relating to strategic goods. I don't think this amendment is acceptable to the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th agenda or no later than 16.15 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Period of the day - Defence proposal for a law amending the law on income, summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Janko Webro. With regard to this law, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the drafters for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u42	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! Let me say that a group of Members of the proposal for a law amending the law on income have been tabled on the basis of a presentation on the issue of wine growers, wine growers and olive farmers producing wine and oil from their own grapes or olives. They are also associated with the associations of winegrowers of Dolenjska, the association of associations of winegrowers and wine growers of Slovenia Vinis, the association of winegrowers and wine growers of Brda, from the Vipava region, the lower Vipava region, Slovenian Istria, Goriski Brd, and, of course, the association of olive farmers participated in this presentation. In short, it is an extremely large number of wine growers, winemakers and also olive farmers. They pointed out that one agricultural activity must be divided into two separate activities and pay two taxes under income, one for grapes or olives and the other for wine or olive oil. In doing so, a farmer of a winemaker or an olive farmer is placed in the tax equivalent of, for example, a merchant winer or an oil trader who buys grapes or olives on the market without the risk of producing grapes or olives in nature. In short, winegrowers, winemakers and olive farmers are defined as a basic agricultural activity taxed on the basis of cadastral income, due to the duality of taxation and administration in the unequal situation with winegrowers, winemakers in neighbouring countries. Therefore, we propose to amend the applicable Income Act, Article 57 thereof, by defining the processing of grapes and the production of wines from own production and the production of olives and the production of olive oil from own production as a basic agricultural activity. However, the provisions of this law should be applied to the 2005 income bill. Therefore, the urgency of the adoption of the law is extremely high, as the deadline within which the 2005 income forecast will have to be issued is running out. Let me say that the legislature has no comments on the law as well. The government forwarded an opinion to the law stating that it is appropriate to maintain the system of taxation, as it was before 2005, in view of the national interest of the recognition of wine-growing and wine-growing and oil-growing industries. So she agrees with the law. However, it considers that the amendment of the law is unnecessary, since the government does not oppose the proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 57(3) and (5) of the Income Act. In doing so, I must point out and highlight the fact that the authentic interpretation, including in the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, is contrary to the purpose of the authentic interpretation, as the content of the authentic interpretation changes the content of Article 57, which is, of course, possible only by law. Authenticity can explain ambiguity in the law, but it is not possible to change content by authentic explanation. Therefore, the proposed solution in the law, which we have tabled together with fellow Members and Members, is a more appropriate solution, the only appropriate solution and we propose to reject the decision of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food and to adopt the law. This will mainly relieve wine growers and winemakers and olive growers of the costs of the administration and allow them to maintain their agricultural activity, which is still important because it is carried out in the countryside, because we know it is extremely difficult to provide employment programmes. Wine produced from own vineyards also has greater added value within the family due to tradition, new knowledge and a large number of working hours invested in this basic agricultural activity. We therefore propose that the decision of the Committee be rejected and adopted by the law which we have tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I take it that the government representatives are not at this point. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Sušnik has the floor, on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Honorable Chairman, Honourable Assembly! Agriculture is an extremely specific activity in our area, which faces all historical conditions, fragmentation, resulting in displaced rural areas and other things that could be listed, and it is therefore necessary to address all the acts, laws and regulations governing taxation of this extremely sensitive area from this point of view. We follow and recognize these specificities in the parliamentary group, but we also want to follow the principle of equal distribution of tax burdens and, above all, tax fairness, and we specifically support the government in its desire to regulate taxation of this area, especially taxation of winemakers and olive farmers, and certainly not in the way that the legislator foresees in this legislative proposal. It is in the area of wine production that we meet with our original characteristics and the fact that as much as 50% of wine production is not recorded that we have recorded approx. 18,000 vineyards and approx. Five thousand 700 winemakers, in our opinion, are taxed in a relatively appropriate manner and therefore we do not support the attempt to equalise them in the fiscal sense of wine growers with winemakers, which is essentially the content of the law. We will therefore support the proposal of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy that the proposal for a law amending the Income Act, which has been tabled in a reduced procedure and prepared by Mr Weber with a group of Members, is not suitable for further consideration. I would like to highlight one more point about these 5,700 winemakers. It falls or can benefit from a standard cost of 70%, which is said to belong to the category of winemakers with gross income of up to 6 million, approx. 5,500 winemakers and we believe that, taking into account the objective of establishing records, the arrangements are satisfactory and that these winemakers produce all 50% of the registered wine production and 200 wine producers are larger. It is large companies, large wine producers, manufacturing plants in the right sense, and we are convinced that it is necessary to keep the relevant records and that the alignment with vineyards would be a kind of tax relief that we do not agree with in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Mark Pavlich, LDS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for putting me first because I have other things to do. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We object to the conclusion that the law of Comrade Vebra is not suitable for further consideration. Indeed, the adoption of such a law is very important for the conduct of agricultural activities in Slovenia, as the average income of a farmer in the European Union decreased by 5.6% in 2005. The decrease in average income is mainly due to a decrease in real income of 7.9%, partially reduced by a lower labour volume of 2.4%. In Slovenia, income per farmer was lower by 4.2% during the same period, which shows a revised assessment of the Eurostat European Statistical Office. Among the European Union's crops, olive oil production has been the most reduced by 16% and wine by 10.1%, which is why it is particularly important to adopt this law, which, if adopted, will promote the production of olive oil and wine in crisis. And finally, of course, it is two products of our country, which are of so-called national interest and also of the pride of our country. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we therefore support the deletion, by means of a proposal for an income law in the third and fifth paragraphs of Article 57 of the Act, of the provisions which exclude the production of wine and olive oil from own production for sale from agricultural production, which is considered to be a basic agricultural activity and which is wholly or principally linked to the use of agricultural land run in the agricultural cadastral and the cadastral of the actual use of agricultural land. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we support the objective of the law, which is a partial simplification of agricultural income, although only in a small segment. We believe that the current situation does not hinder, but encourages the sale of wine on the grey market, which actually results in less tax collection than would be optimal. We support the findings of representatives of winemakers and olive farmers, which point to the inadmissibility of such a solution. Of course, they also point to the broader problem of regulating the position of farmers in Slovenia. However, in the context of this topic, this means that in fact one agricultural activity should be divided into two separate activities and, for the crops of one farm, pay two taxes under income, one for grapes or olives and another for wine or olive or olive oil. They are particularly disturbed by the fact that, in the field of the sale of these products, the law is tax equivalent to winemakers and oil traders who purchase wine or olive oil on the market and are not exposed to the risks posed by the production of these fruits. Such a solution in practice brings disproportionately complex and costly administrative complications, which can lead even in the long term to a partial abandonment of olive and grape production activities, to the reduction of plantings or to the production and sale of wine and olive oil on black. The implementation of any of these scenarios would also reduce the revenue inflows under this heading. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we are aware that today's talk is so much like ringing a bell by the creek, that we are voting on the appropriateness or inappropriateness of the bill. Therefore, of course, we regret that, together with common powers, as has already been said in the previous law on the second track, in the parliamentary procedure, we would eliminate any shortcomings and allow a very, very important agricultural activity with us, which carries Slovenia's reputation far into the world, across the meadow, so that it can function normally. We regret that the position is the same as it is, and in any way, as we say, we will oppose the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. We think it's appropriate and it's still necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I would just like to explain that of all the representatives of the parliamentary groups that have been reported, only the SLS Group and Mr Bajc have informed me that Mr Kramberger will present his position instead. When I gave the first word, there was no Mr Saš Pečet who was declared, nor Mr Willi Rezman, and therefore the first Mr Franz Sušnik and the second was Dr Mark Pavlih. Please, Mrs Breda Pecan, on behalf of the Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. The Social Democrats' Group opposes the decision proposed by the mother labour body, namely that the proposed law is inappropriate for further consideration. This is because it is immediately for this item of the agenda that there comes a series of proposals for a mandatory interpretation of this article and of this same law, which, according to the legislature, is inappropriate to interfere with the legal subject in a way that changes it substantively and does not do what the mandatory interpretation should do. We believe that the attitude of the ruling coalition and the government to these proposals, which are being tabled by members of the opposition parties, even in the event of repeated statements by Prime Minister Janez Janša, contrary to the repeated repeated statements made by the Prime Minister that, if we propose good proposals by marriage or any other, if this proposal is acceptable, there is no reservation that the government coalition will not accept these proposals. The Group of Social Democrats proposes this law in a legal manner, in an appropriate manner, the exact same solution as proposed in the mandatory interpretation proposed by Members of the ruling coalition. Our proposal is legal, your proposal is not legal, but, as I have already said, despite the repeated statements made by Mr Janez Janša that this coalition will accept and welcome any appropriate proposal, of course we do not hear this promise again and we do not see it on paper. I will read the text in the first paragraph of the authentic explanation or a mandatory explanation of why an authentic explanation is needed. Under the applicable arrangements for the production of hops and fruit, beer or spirit can be produced - I could also add, under the applicable legislation, cheese can also be produced for milk production, under the existing arrangements for the production of pumpkins can also produce pumpkin oil, and there is no reason for such arrangements not to apply to the production of grapes and olives. By compulsory interpretation or by this law, we avoid comparing one hundred-year-old wine houses or oil houses with economic activities that are often without the tradition of the agricultural spirit and the generally established European standards. And again, by your reasoning of the mandatory explanation, you claim that the problem of the grey market would be further strengthened, as we claim in our bill, but again, the law is prepared in accordance with the Constitution, with our rules of procedure, with all the positive standards that we have in this country, while the mandatory interpretation is illegal. I am very sorry, I must say that we, as a group of Members, will of course support a mandatory explanation, to the extent that you will really accept the proposed decision of the Committee on Finance, but contrary to what we should actually do. Because we know what's right. And you know what's right. It's just that, unfortunately, what you're well aware of is that you don't stick to it. Timely there would be absolutely no difference, the law would be adopted by emergency procedure, would be implemented before 1 April, and these farmers could, of course, avoid paying enormous tax duties. Therefore, I must say that our parliamentary group is like so many times, but, of course, with false hope or empty hope, that at some point the announcement of your Prime Minister and the leader of the coalition will be realized that one day we will have our own reasonable, meaningful, wise proposal adopted - of course, we will once again suffer defeat. However, as Serbs say: from defeat to defeat to final victory. We'll see what happens in three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor on behalf of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u50	Presidents, government representatives, honourable Members and Members. I hope that the problem of wine producers and olive oil will be addressed by the adoption of a new law prepared by the government. This will correct the injustice caused by the previous government to wine and olive oil producers. The ring by the stream should start in May 2004, once the law has been passed. In the New Slovenia Group of Members - the Christian People's Party, we have thoroughly reviewed the draft law and we do not support it or support the proposal of the mother's working body, so that it is not suitable for further consideration. The applicant's starting point in drafting amendments to the Income Act is wrong in our view. In taxing other agricultural activities, the applicant does not follow the general principle of covering all tax revenues, but rather wants to impose a particularly favourable status for producers of wine and olive oil, which, in our view, is unfair and unfair to other producers engaged in other agricultural activities. It is necessary to know that agricultural activity is divided into basic agricultural activity taxed on the basis of culture by cadastral income and other agricultural activity: intensive vegetable production, ornamental plant production, forestry, sawdustry, wine production, olive oil production, dream drying, juice processing and burning, processing of meat products where income is identified as other activities. In the Act on Income, which is currently in force, it has offered specific favourable solutions in its complementary activities in agriculture. Complementary activities are subject to income of up to 6 million 70% of the standard cost. This option can benefit about 90% of all producers of wine and olive oil. According to the previous Income Act, only 25% of the costs were standardised, amounting to 2.9 million. The applicant also noted that the methods of taxation of winemakers and olive farmers in Europe and the European Union themselves are different, as conditions and revenues vary according to the environment. Undoubtedly, however, in all environments, they are trying to determine as precisely as possible the amount of revenue as possible in order to be as fair as possible as possible as a result of this taxation. It would be unfair for wine producers to be equal to grape producers, as wine production revenues are also several times higher. This exception would also be unfair to other undertakings engaged in the processing of agricultural crops from their own raw materials and also to undertakings engaged in the production of wine and olive oil. In our parliamentary group, in accordance with the above, we believe that the amendment of the law is inappropriate for further consideration, because in our view it will create unfair differences between taxpayers for payment of income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Mag has a word on behalf of the SLS. Janez Kramberger. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. A distinguished representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The income position of farmers is still decreasing and decreasing, so something is wrong. What does Slovenian policy or what can Members and Members and the Slovenian Government have in this context, and what can we do? We can influence because we are in a common European space where we have a common agricultural policy, we can only shape our social policy and our tax policy. So this issue that we are discussing today is undoubtedly a matter to which we must pay great attention. Of course, the Slovenian People's Party was in the government in 2004, when we adopted this law, which we are changing today and in particular this provision, which we are changing. We in the Slovenian People's Party also have responsibility for this law. I must say that at the time I chaired this Committee on Agriculture and was then promised by the then Prime Minister and then Minister of Finance that we would fully address the issue of agricultural taxation. This is what happened when we had to or had to be removed from the government and then the remnant of the coalition, which part of it now proposes this amendment of the law, settled this issue as it is settled. It's not well arranged. And this solution, now offered by the proposer, is not good either. It does not cover the whole issue of taxation of Slovenian agriculture. I am convinced that Slovenian agriculture, with regard to the structure of Slovenian agriculture, both in its own sense and in its age, education and other fields, must be regulated in a manner comparable to that of neighbouring countries, Austria and Italy. It is said that what colleagues from the Democratic Party are now proposing is, of course, a welcome and populist proposal. We, in the People's Party, cannot support this law because of the responsibility we have for all, not only for agricultural producers, but also for others, and also for the various structures of agricultural producers. That is why we will not support this, nor will we support an authentic explanation, which is not legally valid either. We will, of course, support the government proposal, which is in preparation and which will be, I think, at the next meeting. Of course, we expect this law to be regulated in a comparable way, as is the case with wine growers and oil producers as well as other agricultural producers, as it is properly regulated in neighbouring countries. So we're not going to support this, we're going to support a law that will completely regulate this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 17th agenda or no later than 16.15 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE PREFERENCE OF AVENTIVE EXPOSURE 3. AND 5. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Member of the Law of Inventory. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted to the assembly by the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. I give the floor to the representative of the applicants for further explanation. Please, Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The fact that tax legislation in agriculture is a particularly sensitive issue shows, after all, the fate of this authentic interpretation, by which we tried to correct the serious error that occurred to the legislator in May 2004, when the law on income was passed, and which was partially corrected in last year. We have heard today that the standard costs for complementary activities have been raised from the previous 2.9 million tolars on a basic basis and with the possibility of calculating 25% of the standard costs to 6 million and 70% of the possibility of calculating the standard costs. However, in this area, it is precisely in the field of taxation of winemakers and olivers that there is not an appropriate and appropriate solution to satisfy all parties. In the sense and desiring to resolve this matter and the provisions of Article 57 of the Law more appropriately, we have also proposed an authentic interpretation of Article 57, paragraph 3, and Article 57, paragraph 5, of the Income Act. Well, I think that we are capable and that we can also listen to the opinion of the legislative and legal service, which found that this authentic interpretation went too far, because in the present case the reasons for the interpretation of the substantive nature are given and in this case the authentic interpretation is too much or too much. We fully agree here with the view that the authentic interpretation cannot be intended to amend or supplement the law, but it can only relate to the interpretation of the legal provisions which are in practice unclear in the context of the content in question, as stated by the legislative and legal service in its opinion. Therefore, in the SDS Group of Members - I take advantage of this moment to also state the opinion of our Group of Members as one of the proponents of an authentic interpretation - we will support the decision of the Labour Body that this authentic interpretation is not accepted. This is mainly because, together with the representatives of the government, the Ministry, we have come up with a more appropriate solution, contained in the proposed bill, which seeks the basis for taxation of winemakers and olive farmers in the corrected cadastral income, namely the proposal for a discussion of 2,5 times the cadastral income as a basis for taxation for the calculation of the income of oil producers and 3 times the base for taxation, the calculation of income for winegrowers. We are of the opinion that, in the context of this proposal, another amount of income must be sought, to which such a way of calculating income can still be tolerated, and that this solution will then be the most appropriate solution, the most appropriate way out of the situation in which, once again, I stress, we found ourselves in this case after the adoption of the Income Act in May 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Bojan Starman, Chairman of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 57, paragraph 3, and Article 57, paragraph 5, of the Income Act, which was submitted to the Coalition's parliamentary groups for consideration in the National Assembly, was also addressed by the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Finance and Monetary Policy at its 14th meeting, on 15.2.2006. We have considered practically both proposals, including the proposal for the law of the Member's colleague Vebra and the proposal for an authentic explanation. Representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service and representatives of the Government attended the meetings. We found ourselves in a dilemma of what to do, actually, how to decide. The bill proposed by Mr Weber did not have any comments from the legislative and legal service, but he did have the Government's comment that such a solution would not be correct and that is why we then made a proposal for an authentic explanation. On the opinion of the authentic interpretation, however, we received a very negative opinion from the legislative and legal service, which said that, with the proposed authentic interpretation, we are practically changing the content of the law rather than interpreting the law. Therefore, no proposal was adopted at the end, neither the proposal for an authentic interpretation nor the amendment of the law was adopted. But all of this has been decided in this way, and we have largely decided in this way, because the government has promised to prepare a new law that better than both proposed options will solve this problem. The fact is that this promise has been made, and as we know, we already have this proposal under consideration. I would just like to say a few more about these issues, which were also mentioned here and were also discussed at the Committee's meeting. What does that mean, what happened before? Before the amendment of the Income Act, practically the winegrowers, the winegrowers, were taxed on a cadastral basis. Based on that, I'm telling you. The vineyard had 10,5 hectares and, on the basis of the cadastral yield, paid 19 thousand tolls of income on the basis of the contribution and all the duties, it could, if properly processed by this world, produce some 70,000 litres of wine. This is about such a relationship that 10 tons of grapes or 7,000 gallons [7,000 L] of wine could be produced per hectare. Now, after a new proposal, which is supposed to be an activity-based payment, it is also not said what kind of tax he will pay. Of course, he has to run all the necessary documentation and if the costs are higher than the revenues, then of course there is no tax, this is what I say for those who do not have automatically more than 6 million tolars and of course there is no such work. The new proposal foresees that it would be taken into account as a basis for calculating the tax three-fold or two-and-a-half times the cadastral income. Nor would this be a large amount, and those who have proposed these amendments also agree with this amendment. Somewhere, as far as I know, this new law proposes - such a proposal for a law amending the law on income brings such a variant. There's something else I'd like to say. When we mix all the concepts of what income is, what VAT is and what these payments are in agriculture and everywhere - I have heard this matter before. The income is paid from net earnings everywhere and for everyone. In agriculture, this net profit is assessed and foreseen on the basis of cadastral income and is, for example, the same if all these costs are taken into account, as I said earlier in the vineyard. The catastrophe income for pastures is a thousand and a half per hectare, for grass 15 thousand, for field 90 thousand, for vineyard 80 thousand. Even farmers do not pay any taxes on what they do not create, but everywhere they try to calculate the amount of net earnings, everywhere there are known reliefs that any citizen of Slovenia is a country. Of course, we should pay as fair and equal as possible what we earn and create to the state in a similar way. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Thank you very much. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation, Mr Mag has the floor. Andrej Shircelj, Secretary of State. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u58	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. The government is fully responsible for monitoring the current taxation of agriculture under the current Income Act, as well as any proposals made both by sent groups and with regard to the authentic interpretation. In doing so, the government is aware of the legal contradictions of the authentic interpretation of the Income Act, but in principle it does not object to the authentic interpretation itself, which does not mean that it supports it on the other hand. It believes that there is still a huge gray field here, which actually allows such a matter to be settled in another way, so the government has already adopted a new law on income or amending the Income Act, which provides that winemakers and olive farmers will be taxed on the basis of catastronomic income, which will increase the cadastral income slightly. In this direction certain amendments will also be submitted to the National Assembly, and in this way, I hope that the taxation of agriculture will in fact be fully regulated. Above all, taxpayers will be given the opportunity to choose one of the ways that is already possible, including by adapting it to their actual farming, farming, farming and the like. Thus, certain solutions from the current law, such as the so-called flat-rate taxation, with flat-rate expenditure, will still be retained. However, the taxpayers will have the opportunity to make a decision in this way. The government is also aware of the administration itself in relation to the collection of tax or income for winemakers and olive farmers, and from this point of view it will direct all regulations so as to minimise the fact that taxpayers will have as few mandatory contact with the tax administration as possible. However, if this contact has to be, because we need to be aware here that we still need some records, this contact will be as friendly as possible and will also allow taxpayers to fulfil their tax obligation in the easiest and most optimal way. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Franz Sušnik has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] I give the floor to Mr Anton Anderlich, on behalf of the LDS. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u60	Your Honor! In fact, all together in this national assembly should ask what we are doing today and the result of what we are doing. First of all, it must be said that this approach was chosen because it was so advised. And after 12,500 signatures have been handed over to the Committee on Agriculture or to Mr Sok, President of this Committee under a petition, which I understand as a request before despair, what to do for 2005 in particular, and how this issue will be settled in the future. And since this has already been done strongly before the end of 2005, then on December 13th, it was said that the work of coalition parliamentary groups that have tabled a mandatory interpretation into the procedure has been welcomed, in order to resolve everything that needs to be resolved in this case. Later, all conversations, conversations, and so on and so forth will also come about in a sense that no one can really put into the context of a desire for a constructive solution to the problem. On 15.2.2006, the Government does not object, and on 16.2.2006, the Ministry of Finance sends a different proposal and objects to it and then proposes a new law to which it is now being invoked, which unfortunately, as it is understood, does not resolve paragraphs 3 and 5 of Article 57 of the Law in the way that it was understood by the explanations set out in this mandatory interpretation. I agree with you that if in the past something has been done wrong, it's always showing up and saying that it doesn't want to change now that it just changes. To settle it in the way it's appropriate and how it solves the problem. If the government has determined whether or not the government Members who now oppose their signatures and their will, expressed on 13 December by introducing this compulsory explanation, regardless of whether I was in the coalition when the law was adopted, I also welcomed them because it seems necessary to equalize or at least bring those who produce milk, cheese, those who produce fruit, fruit and so on, with those who produce olives, olive oil, wine, grapes, wine and so on. I think that these are things that are comparable and can be addressed in the way that has been proposed. I think it makes more sense, however, today to learn more about how this law will save, which is in preparation, or will come into procedure when, as you say in the coalition, the law is rejected by social democracy, because if it is sinful and I don't know what you would want it to do if you wanted to, you couldn't fix it. We could, but of course it's just not normal, it's not manners, it's not something that would be acceptable to the coalition. But it's not that important either. It would be important to learn from government representatives or, of course, from coalition Members, who now oppose their proposal, how, in what way, the law that will come into the procedure in March, you say, will resolve the question for 2005. I understand these 12 thousand 500 signatures as a request, as some evoking wish not to cause a disaster at the time of the proposal or, if necessary, to issue an income forecast this year. Even in the light of the instructions understood, it will be very difficult to do so properly so that not all these people will be in the wrong, according to previous instructions, given all that we should do, if this clarity were to be such that everyone who is affected now knows how to keep records. And it was necessary to do so in 2005, and that government had already been, and part of the responsibility belonged to it. I do not think that what has also been heard can be treated in the same hoof and in the same way and that the objective is only to sell grapes through cooperatives, agrocombinants, companies dealing with the processing and sale of grapes and olives or the production of olive oil at the end and marketing of these. I think it is still important and useful for Slovenia that this combination, on the one hand, is mass production, which ends in the processing of large wine cellars and the appearance on the market of the trade marks of these cellars and individual products, on the other hand, to allow the possibility of developing individual producers, who, in fact, today, if we are talking about this, even in a way of promoting, the way of applying in the world, the comparability of the end of the production, processing and sale structure with neighbouring countries, Austria, Italy, in particular when we are talking about production on this side and on the other side of the border. Even when some of our growers and growers have vineyards, on the other hand, now that this law and this interpretation are dealt with, then those who are registered in Italy appear on the market, in one principle and in another principle with us. This is not reasonable for the first time, the second time disstimulating and ultimately uncompetitive for our producers. I hear that the chairman of the committee is very concerned that individual producers of wine and oil, etc. the overrich, the higher-and-sales of those who sell in or through the cooperative grapes also process and produce olive oil and sell it. This can be understood as some Slovenian folklore, but it is not understandable from the point of view of establishing equal opportunities for all. Speaking of equal opportunities, I am not just talking about the Republic of Slovenia, I am also talking about the common European space in which we are and with which we are compared. And we're obviously something special here. I have been taught what it is like on the Western border, on the border with Italy and how it is in Italy and what this situation is like for these producers. And if it is true that you are concerned only with this legal definition or the broad legal definition in this explanation that it is already interfering with the amendment of the law itself, then it would be right to answer what I have asked as a question: How is the case resolved for 2005? Otherwise it will be understood, and I will myself understand that since November, all December and then January, February, it has been said that this will be resolved in an appropriate manner. And if it does, then it can be established, otherwise not. And then the question really comes to mind is whether it was conscious manipulation, not only of 12 thousand 500 signatories, but also of all those who believed that the purpose was noble, that the purpose was to arrange this position for winemakers and olive growers in a comparable way. As I understand it, these growers and processors don't mind that a graduation is made to make certain things more comparable with factors if, as some say, they are in a better position to work better, who eventually have a better price because of their efforts, because of their quality on the market. And if we set up a parallel, it's clear that this private person, if you want, should probably stop dealing with these things if you don't have enough income to keep on living and developing. On the other hand, what exactly do we want to do about it? We also want to raise more income for the country. Okay, but let's go see how much of the cooperative basements, the agrocombinants, and so on, comes into the state's profit budget. How much money is from this address? What we are going to find quickly is that competitiveness here is highly questionable and also the question of what is the right withdrawal. I think that it is necessary to allow the representatives of individual producers or producers, processors and sellers, as well as others who do so in a different way, so that they are all able to do so according to their capabilities. And in the end, they're comparatively taxed. And by that, I think we need to close the matter. If it is for fruit growers, if it is for dairy farmers, if there is one principle for farmers and so on, then this principle must also be for winemakers and olive farmers. Of course, even more so, because it is also for those products that come from the roots of the name of our Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, then we must all be the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you for the words of the chairman and a nice greeting once again! In the Group of Social Democrats, we agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of paragraph 3 and paragraph 5 of the second paragraph 57 of the Income Act is contrary to what the authentic interpretation would represent. The authentic interpretation is intended primarily to allow for the content of the legal provision already adopted, within its original meaning, so that its implementation can be carried out in practice in a clear and indisputable manner. However, the authentic interpretation itself goes beyond this content and in fact changes the text, so it is necessary to establish a legal solution to achieve this objective set by the parliamentary groups. In doing so, I would like to reiterate the fact that we have a legal solution in place that the law amending and supplementing the law on income submitted by Members and Members is appropriate for us to adopt it. In particular, I would like to point out that the interpretations in this direction that the government will make a new proposal are not correct in this respect, because even if the government submits a new proposal, this proposal will come into the procedure too late, too late in this regard, in order to be able to deal with income for 2005. Surely the government's proposal will not save income for 2005. The law that's been introduced saves it. It is therefore important that we today combine the thinking that has been shown not least by signing and investing in the adoption of an authentic interpretation, as well as by the introduction of an income change law. In fact, there is no parliamentary group against this solution. We differ only in how this solution could be achieved. And here I would really like to point out once again that the government solution in 2005 will not solve, which means that in the case of non-admission of the law on income authentic reasons cannot be adopted, because it exceeds its content, farmers, wine growers, winemakers and olive farmers will have to produce all administrative procedures or carry out all administrative procedures for the announcement of separate doses of income for the production of grapes and separately for the production of wine and for olive trees, separately for the production of olive oil. And they will only do this in 2005, once the government has submitted a new proposal, this should no longer be the case and this should no longer be necessary in 2006. For this reason, it seems particularly important for us in the Social Democrats' Group to adopt a legal solution for this one year, which will burden the vineyards and olive groves of this unnecessary administration, and then in 2006, when the new law is enforced, it will be implemented as the government predicts it will. I think this is also important because, not least, family farms market wine in wine connoisseurs, in specialised shops and, of course, in more eminent restaurants. This fills the market niche and raises the level of recognition of our wine countries, I can say, even though we have not yet fully arrived at wine, but in any case we are talking about wine countries in Slovenia, and, of course, indirectly, we are also preparing a greater recognition of our wine on the market, and we are also preparing new market opportunities for the entry of larger quantities of low-quality wines produced by commercial and capital markets or organisations based on more commercial and capital relations. Of course, we must aim in Slovenia to arrange for such production and production of wine, which will take into account both family farms, which are expected to fill these specialised wine needs, as well as commercial-capital producers, who provide more wine. With only a good common offer of wine, we will achieve the desired goal that the marketing and promotion of Slovenian wines will be successful, not only in our market, but also in the external markets. Therefore, once again, I appeal to fellow Members and fellow Members to take advantage of the opportunity today, to adopt an amendment to the Income Act, and thus to fill the gap in the 2005 revenue forecast for farmers and olive farmers, so that they will not have to carry out the administration, and then after 2006 this should not be done again, this effort would actually be thrown away. That is why I think today is a real opportunity for us to save the year 2005 as we somehow imagined in the National Assembly, if I may say so, and in 2006 let the matter run as the government has imagined, if this proposal is acceptable to Members and Members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor, on behalf of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be very brief because Mr Bajc is already impatient. The final result, followed by an authentic interpretation and a proposal for a law, is the same. As far as the authentic explanations are concerned, paragraphs 3 and 5 of the second paragraph of Article 57, the Legislative and Legal Service has convinced us that it is too much to interfere with the content of the law itself and therefore the authentic interpretation is not appropriate. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a decision. Now there is something else about whether or not the new proposal for the 2005 law will apply. This would be worth hearing the government's position, because I think it is right for them to make a statement. This proposal is to be considered at the November session, and I hope that we will catch that urgent time to do so. However, I agree that this is being dealt with late and that it would be better if we did so substantially earlier. As far as the agriculture committee's concerned, I think we need rich processors. It was mentioned that we fear rich wine processors and others. My opinion is that we need rich processors, but these rich processors also have to pay taxes adequately to their wealth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the government. The Slovenian People's Party was also one of the signatories to the compulsory interpretation of Article 57. And don't repeat what a fellow magician is. Kramberger told us why we've changed our minds, and I'd like to explain why we've changed our minds. As my predecessors have said, the legislature of this National Assembly has said that it is likely that the authentic interpretation of Article 57 of the Income Law would interfere too much with the content of the law. I think that we all agree, and that also colleague Weber at the previous item on the agenda, when we have considered the law he has introduced, we are trying to find a solution to how to fix things for 2005 or how to remedy a poor provision in the opinion of both the winegrowers and the winegrowers of the law adopted in 2004. I'm not worried about rich winemakers and I'm not worried, like one of the predecessors said, poor, or I'll say, less rich grape producers. I worry about how to straighten out or how to achieve that when we talk about tax legislation, all citizens who process this rich or poor land with the same meter or the same vat will be given or determined by the state to give it what it does. Second. I think that none of the predecessors, both in the previous Webra law and not now in the mandatory interpretation of coalition parties, have said what would happen if we voted in this way or if we voted otherwise in relation to this mandatory interpretation or earlier laws. In view of the fact that the parent’s working body in both of them said that it was not a suitable basis for further consideration, it was by procedure that I was taught this, meaning that the matter was to be returned to the parent’s working body. This means that he is going back to the agricultural committee and that means that he is going to a March meeting that begins, I think, or it will start on 27 and 28 March. If I had to take the procedure at the time, and my mother's working body must no longer say that it is not a suitable basis, because the National Assembly said it is appropriate, say, if we say a mandatory explanation. [[...]] Then we have to wait six or seven days to get, or the time, when it may be possible to give veto to the state council, it is said, at best, that this authentic explanation is published in the Official Journal, and I will now say, once on April 6, 7. This means, 31.3., when all taxpayers forecasting income, that is to say, we have already missed the deadline for them to do so. Given that it is in the procedure - I think the government has already tabled in the procedure - a proposal for a law amending the Income Act to remedy this issue, I think we will be less infringing on the legislation, less infringing on the content, given that we will change the law, then at the March meeting, the same one where we would also consider this authentic interpretation possibly if we consider this law and regulate it on the basis of the law of the case. However, in a law that was already in the National Assembly, it was returned by the leadership of the National Assembly to supplement it, given that it did not have one of the assumptions that the law was being introduced, that is, it did not have an assessment of the financial implications, I think that even in this law, with the same reservation, there is likely to be a legislative and legal service or perhaps with a minor reservation, such as a reservation to the compulsory interpretation of Article 57 of the Law, it is possible to make a provision in the transitional and final provisions of this Act, of course if a decision is made by the home labour body and so proposed to the National Assembly also the matter that the 2005 arrangements are made. For this reason, the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be authentically explaining Article 57, paragraph 3, and Article 5, paragraph 5, of the Income Act, as voted or proposed by the national working body, expecting the same achievement to be achieved in the procedure when this law comes to the home working body or at the plenary session as we thought we could by authentic interpretation of Article 57, paragraph 3, and paragraph 5, of the Income Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation. Mrs Breda Pecan has spoken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that in the debate so far on both issues, both the law and the mandatory interpretation, there has actually been one, I must say, probably is thinking about all of us. Firstly, if we reject both the law and the mandatory interpretation, the problem of emptiness arises in 2005. Before that, Mr. Secretary of State - are you the Secretary of State? - explained that farmers producing wine and olive oil for sale and not just for their own purposes have already violated the Income Act if they are not in the hope that the amendment of the Act will be adopted or a compulsory interpretation, since it does not matter whether it is one or the other if they have not declared income from the activity because it is in fact income from the activity and is taxed net income. That's one problem. Another problem is that if we both refuse and wait for the government to draft amendments to the Income Act, where this issue will be addressed, among other things, it is said that there will be an opportunity to increase the cadastral income as a tax base, a gap will arise for 2005 and there will be a violation again. However, if they were early enough, of course they had very much to do with the mere application of the tax base and would pay disproportionately more tax than they would have paid if they also had an increased cadastral income. For this reason, I propose something that may seem to you, fellow Members, no, a colleague is just one, a colleague and fellow Members, there are two, pardon, over there I see that there is a reasonable solution. If we reject today's conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration, the law is imposed by an urgent procedure, which is understandable after all, otherwise it is not a matter of very important interests and catastrophic consequences for the country, but it is a matter of very important interests and disastrous consequences for many citizens of this country, and I therefore believe that if the law is supported by me, it is returned to this working body, which must meet at the time of the meeting, and this working body should prepare a supplement in terms of an increase in cadastral income, it is said that the text in Articles 3 and 5 of Article 57 is deleted, and I think that then in the 60th or 59th article, I do not remember now, because I have seen earlier, complete the text of this article with a text saying only that for producers of wine and olive oil, which are producing oil, but only from my own production, because I did not see, complete the text of this article with the text, which says only that for producers of the reason that it is an increase in favour of the agricultural income, that it is due to them. That's not what we're going to lay down in the law, we're not going to put numbers in the law, we're going to put them in the text. I think it's so short and so simple that it doesn't have to wait for November, because I understood that it will only be November, and it doesn't matter if it's March, if it's April or November, it'll always apply from 2006 onwards. This means that if we adopt an amendment to the Income Act in this session by incorporating an increased cadastral income into it, I think we have solved the problem, which is an important part of our farmers. Now I must say something that is considered unknown to wine, but I will say about our important achievements in Slovenia, but it seems very important. Whether you believe it or not, I think with our faults, our individual farmers have the opportunity to boast around the world. I have to tell you honestly, whenever possible, because as mayor I have a lot of contacts, I am bragging about the wine of our insulating producers, and I am not going to tell you the names, Schurks, Movio and a whole bunch of others that I don't remember right now, and I'm going to share this as a business gift of this wine. Why? Because it is, however, one brand of our country. If these people are rich because they are doing good, excellent and excellent wine, they should be rich because they have done it with their knowledge and their work. I have to say that it makes no sense for me to worry about things like this if someone is rich because they're smart and because they're capable and they're good at it. And so, I suggest to you, colleague and colleague, let us be once, me and Mr Webro, I am not signed under the law anyway, you have probably noticed this, although colleague Weber and my fellow Members in the parliamentary group will not be very offended if you say that the law is bad and that it needs to be corrected with such corrections as has been supplemented by, say, Article 59. And I am sure that the representatives of the government will also agree to such a solution. I don't know what you're thinking. Is that the right solution or not? However, I think it would be good if, before this afternoon's vote, we consulted each other and tried to agree on a solution to this problem in a slightly more cooperative way, such as a partnership for the development of agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u69	Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! The Income Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2005, has in practice proved to be extremely unfriendly mainly to wine growers and olive farmers. Slovenian winemakers and olive farmers are direct agricultural producers, meaning they produce wine or oil, olive oil from their own grapes or olives. According to the applicable Income Act, these agricultural activities must be divided into two separate activities and pay essentially two taxes under the new tax legislation for the crops of one farm. One for grapes and one for wine. In most European countries farmers for this agricultural activity pay income from the cadastral income. Despite the fact that the law has been in force for a year and a few months now, the government has not prepared the relevant sub-legislative acts in due time. I had the opportunity to make sure of that when I was told at one of the tax expositions that they had no idea how they would account for income for winemakers and olive farmers under the new tax law. I've heard a few times today about these people being in violation. It is not their fault that the government has failed to do its work, has drawn up regulations under the law, has taught its employees on tax grounds how to pay taxes to these people. I am therefore interested in the fact that I hope you will also say another word about whether these people are guilty today or not, or whether the state of Slovenia will overwhelm them because the government has failed to do its job and has drawn up regulations under law. Last September, I tell you, on how to pay taxes to olive farmers and winemakers, they had no idea at one of the tax stations. Then you can't expect the winemakers to be able to calculate it for themselves. The other thing I have to say is that we are facing an illegal authentic explanation today. The authentic interpretation is illegal and with one further absurdity that the proposer will vote against his proposal in this national assembly. It's something new in this house, too, and we're not used to it either. Usually, people who propose something are behind it, no matter how it goes. We have already pointed out irregularities in tax legislation in the Slovenian National Party last year with a number of initiatives and questions that we have received answers in terms of how it will be resolved. Yeah, well, I don't think you're handling this illegally. As far as the law being drawn up by the government is concerned, I must say that I am not aware of the fact that the law is already in the process. In the light of the experience we have, in particular to mention here the veterinary law, this will take one more year for the matter to come into line with the procedure, so that you can harmonise yourself in this government and then maybe accept it. Until then, all these people, I repeat, will be in violation. But not by your own fault, by your own fault. And when someone talked about infringements of procedures and legislation, today we had the opportunity to work without violating the procedures and without violating the legislation and at the same time to settle this situation, for which all of us, together with the government, find it absurd. We still have the possibility of adopting the so-called Weber Income Act, which would regulate this area and the authentic interpretation is completely irrelevant. Then let the government take as much time as it wants to prepare a new one. But don't make political points and get people to commit crimes if they're not guilty themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. One minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thanks again for saying that. In fact, a lot of new things are hard to say, but I would support this fact that we have a real opportunity to resolve this interim period through the adoption of the law and give the government the opportunity to come up with a solution that it believes is even better than what is in the procedure today. Above all, I think that we should take advantage of this great willingness which governs to resolve this problem in particular for the benefit of wine growers, wine growers and olive farmers. And I think that, after all, this is also important because we are all certainly extremely proud together if someone succeeds with one's own crop, product, especially if he puts a lot of effort into it. And winegrowers, winemakers and olive farmers are known to invest in this very much effort and I think they deserve the adoption of the relevant legislation, which is now in the process and in the future improvement, if necessary, by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Boyan Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In any case, it is necessary to use this general opinion to improve the situation of winemakers and to ensure better conditions for their work. In fact, we have all found in this dilemma that it is best to adopt a new law and that the question remains for 2005. So I think it might be wise to reconsider the whole thing. In any case, I must say that this proposal also in some way brings some temporary solution, some flat-rate taxation, which is not in any way fair. However, as Mrs Pečanova last said, complementing this proposal, I do not know whether this is possible within these deadlines, to be regulated or not by rejecting the law. There is a possibility for a committee to meet, but I don't know how we can take this matter through the procedure at the parental meeting. It might be good to think about it and take appropriate action. However, the fact is that we are all in all parties of the same opinion that what was required by the Income Act, which entered into force 1.5, is that it is necessary to amend. Indeed, I would add that this law, which entered into force in 2005, did not put only winemakers in a worse position. Many things that were not previously taxed then came into the tax base. Many things have been done with additions, or we have found new ways, new reliefs, and introduced them into a change in the law on income. We have also received some reliefs that reduce the tax base or those that facilitate the procedures themselves by raising those who can enforce the standard costs. There's something else I'd like to say. Clearly, a fundamental reform of the tax system is essential in our country. As we follow these various proposals for various reliefs, we simply find that this system allows for too much waste or relief. It will be necessary to move towards a uniform rate of income. Now, for example, if someone is applying income per scale from their activities, these incomes are very different: 16 to 50% is our tax. It's also a relief. It makes it easier for, what I know, a dependent family member or a child to get a much bigger one who has a lot of pay than one who has a small salary. In fact, the whole system needs to be overturned, not just that area. In fact, there will be one new simpler and more rational system, which will be the same for all citizens and will also bring the necessary funds to our treasury. At the same time, I must say that we will have to look again at these changes and reflect on the overall scope of our public consumption. And we will have to make a lot more effort here in the National Assembly than elsewhere to make this public administration or this country cheap and thus make all taxes lower, more friendly and thus ensure that taxes are actually collected, but not actually, there are always more areas where taxes are not collected. There's something else I'd like to say about wine. The fact is that, in any case, according to the old system, according to a new proposal or any alternative, wine revenues are not so much taxed. And if we draw the line further to the inn and all, no one pays much to the state, nor do we have any excise duty, so this product is relatively cheap. Therefore, there may not be too much doubt as to how much alcoholism problems we have in Slovenia, which also causes us major social problems. So that a temporary solution could be found in this proposal, which has been given here. Otherwise, I see a solution in a comprehensive system that can be more honest with all citizens or lower the income or taxes that we have to pay. Once again, I would say that often, as is evident from today's debate, certain concepts are mixed - one is income, one is VAT. VAT is a tax that is accrued and has no impact on income. The fact is, in our country, as much as anyone earns or generates net income, everyone should pay the same tax, including cadastral income in agriculture. This is some average assessment, it's a way of taxing a lump sum, so to speak, which is also very different and unfair. The fact is, one who, for example, has another activity besides farming or is in the service when he adds this cadastral income to his income at work comes into a higher ladder and pays much more. I would say that a farm of 46 hectares, given the average cadastral base to be taken into account, would generate a million 200 cadastral revenues. Over a million and a half, I think there are some ten farms of cadastral income in Slovenia. Now let's take the basis of a million and a half when those mandatory social contributions are deducted, where also farmers and social security contributions everywhere are considered a tax - this is not a tax, this is a second category. If you only take the income that is expressed in the cadastre, it is said that a huge farm at a million 200 thousand dollars, if it deducts those contributions that it has the opportunity to apply to children and all of it, there is a payment of income, that's that real tax, practically 10, 15 thousand tolars per year. These are extremely low amounts. It is said that we are actually opening up a topic here that will have to be very widely ventilated. I am aware that revenue is low, but, once again, as I said before, income is not paid from loss, it should be the same everywhere. If it is not earned, it does not create a new value, nor does it exist, nor in farmers, nor in entrepreneurs, nor anywhere. Secondly, if an entrepreneur does not have a basis, if he has more operating costs than income, it is said that he has a loss, he does not pay the income. The deposit that may be paid during the flight shall be returned at the end of the year. This is perfectly clear and in fact this income and this tax is often mixed with everyone, with VAT, with social security contributions completely and thus goes away from this concept when we face this problem every day. Of course, I would personally change a lot of things in this income, people are asking how we're going to meet, how the interest, how these things are, the whole kind of thing is, which I think is unnecessary. The remuneration should be calculated neutrally. We should get home the calculations and just confirm their correctness, but not vice versa, that we are worried, but we are predicting these things, because in some way the record should record all the revenues of all our citizens and, of course, all the bases for the calculation of income. This is practically possible in the age of computerisation, and I hope that it will soon come and, with new changes, also a proposal that will allow tax forecasts no longer to be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u75	Mr. Franz Sušnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u76	Thank you very much. See, indeed, someone who follows the matter without delay might say that it is strange that we are now withdrawing from the authentic interpretation and that we support the proposal of the decision of the parent working body, that it is not suitable for further consideration. However, this withdrawal, or this change, was not made overnight, in mind, but was mainly due to warnings from other farmers about the payment of income in the agricultural field, who warned us that, by applying the authentic interpretation, they would unduly exclude from the circle of taxpayers for the payment of income from the olive tree and the winemakers who are processing their own oil or their own wine and who are marketing it. The fact is that this would significantly violate the basic source of income legislation, which is to be taken into account when taxing all types of income. Calculations show that the ratio between grape growers and wine growers who convert these grapes into wine is also in income between 1 and 3, even 1 to 4 and something else for Primorska and even 1 to 10 for processors or those who market top wines. And this is a situation that is not sustainable and that is the closest to the marriage proposal that we have brought together and which the government has put into the procedure, and this is to actually allow for the taxation based on the cadastral income which must be adjusted in the direction of what I have said towards achieving these objectives in a fair and equitable manner. And the suggestion is that it is corrected by factor 2 and half or three. But there's something else you need to say. In the framework of the correction of the income legislation, the six amendments to the income legislation, a significant shift has also been made, which has made quite a difference, leaving an extremely large margin of manoeuvre. I would like to say that the standard costs were increased from 25% to 70% at the rise in the total income threshold from 2.9 million to 6 million. In this context, they can enforce, and it is important that 95% of all registered vineyards are visible in this package, so that they remain here, once again I stress, those 200 large producers who will have to accept to keep records. Lack of records is, after all, our common problem. It is unacceptable to deal with the claim in the information age today or with the assumption that 50% of the wine on the Slovenian market is sold on the black market under the table. This is also one of the things that someone else in this country should be worried about. I think winemakers too, because this puts themselves in some unequal and unequal position towards other agricultural producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you. The list of reported panellists is exhausted. Does the government want a word? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u78	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members. In view of the entire debate, allow me to make some comments or say what the government intends to do. The current state of affairs, time for winemakers, olivers and even debate is not a friend at this time, even with regard to quoting me about the hands. The Tax Procedure Act lays down the time limits by which different taxpayers, including winemakers and olivers, must submit certain data to the tax administration. This Tax Procedure Act was adopted in 2004 and started to apply from 1 January 2005. From this model angle, of course, I can conclude that the taxpayers have had more than 1 year of time or that the matter here is transparent and clearly given in advance. These hands were placed at that time. The deadlines for income are also said to be announced by 31.3. They are in this law and, of course, they are nothing new. From this model point of view, this debate on rescue is, in every way, problematic, however we take it. This is true law and marriage is what also gives legal basis for other things. Here I would like to draw attention to some information, given that some of the data was also given. I would like to say that according to the register of wine producers run by the Ministry of Agriculture, 5,549 wine producers are registered in Slovenia. Even for all the other numbers, etc. Support should be given to this. Under these 5,549 registered producers, 96% of producers of such taxes in a manner, as we say, are based on revenues of up to 6 million tolars per year and are able to account for 70% of expenditure. This amendment, which is said to have been adopted in December 2005 as regards the level of expenditure. This height was previously determined, i.e. from 1.1.2005 this height was set at 25%. Here was a correction, a correction made to increase this expenditure, flat-rate expenditure to 70%. And these taxpayers have to look to their incomes to see whether or not they will exceed their annual income of 6 million. This is said to be 4% of those who are above the registered debtors, which exceed 6 million annual turnover. They must apply and keep their business books on the basis of income and expenditure. It is said that here are the solutions for individual taxpayers. I cannot say that they are the most favourable solutions at this time, but I think that it is necessary to structure the debtors according to which group they belong and, accordingly, to be properly defined in the next system. In view of the debate on the current law, we can certainly say that if we are talking about grapes and wine, there is certainly some added value added to the wine and a higher price is also reached on the market. Usually different, depending on whether it is bottled wine or not, it is bottled wine. From this point of view, I can say that it can be more fair to see this cadastral income increase accordingly. It is said that this is not the same tax base as that of grape growers who usually or always reach a lower price on the market than winemakers. The next question raised here is the issue of international comparison. The European Union does not provide any solutions in this field, in the field of winemaking, in the field of agriculture. Each country can do it its own way. Italy sets out, when speaking of neighbouring countries, that winemakers are taxed on the basis of cadastral income or on some comparison, on some assessment of cadastral income, whatever the case. However, the Italian tax administration and the Italian law require that records of the sale of wine be kept. Austria states that all winemakers holding land are larger than 0.6 hectares, a vineyard greater than 0.6 hectares, to be taxed as an activity. So they're running revenue and expenditure, so here, if I'm talking only about these countries, we can't, of course, talk about the same system. Also in 2005, according to my data, the tax administration received certain instructions on how to deal with taxpayers in April 2005. I allow, of course, the possibility that the tax administrations have responded differently to the taxpayers on the implementation of these rules themselves, but I would also like to point out here that the matter has been clear more than a year ahead. After all, the instructions are not those which prescribe neither registration nor tax base, nor the way in which the tax is charged, but are essentially laid down by law. And the marriage here is quite detailed. Thus, of course, possible solutions for 2005, anything is possible; another is what is legally acceptable and legally most favourable. So much for an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, and thank you very much to my colleague, Vice-President, for having chaired the meeting so far. I'm asking the motioner, Mr. Sušnik, if you'd like to add any more? No, thank you very much. I'm closing the debate, or I'm terminating it. That's right, considering we still have 42 minutes and a few seconds. I'm asking, who else would like to sign up for the debate? I will read the applications: Mrs Pecan, Mr Weber, mag. Sayovic, Mr. Terchoon, Mr. Anderlich. Did I let anyone else go? And then I invite Mrs. Pecan, everyone has five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I can accept all the arguments I have heard today, but I insist on my proposal and initiative that, now, I will be more specific so that the leaders of the groups of Members meet today for five minutes and agree whether it is possible that today's law, such as it is, will be confirmed as suitable for further consideration. Since I have stumbled before, I apologize, this is a reduced procedure, so it is also possible that no income law states how much cadastral income is defined as the basis for the income assessment. It is said that, at the time of deletion of the appendix in paragraphs 3 and 5, paragraphs 57 can be added at the end of the paragraph, that the undertakings referred to in points 3 and 5 of this Article, which produce wine and olive oil for sale, receive a cadastral income of 2,5 or 3 - I do not know how you got to this number - a staple of normal cadastral income. Therefore, it is entirely possible to resolve the matter at least for 2005 in a way that will benefit producers, namely, producers of wine and olive oil, while at the same time giving the government the opportunity to supplement or regulate the income law as necessary. I believe that you have the opportunity to take some initiative in favour of some people who - I believe that those who are already this 4% of whom Mr Šircelj has talked about already run books anyway - are in fact not concerned. However, it is 96%, almost 6,000 people who will have to keep books for the wine they sell or also have to prepare all the documents for the return. I don't believe it. I'm going to be very honest with you that wine growers and olive farmers have been keeping books in the way that is prescribed, because the initiative to change the law was launched at the beginning of last year. However - here I have to be very critical - in the agri-economic chamber, which in fact forms the basic association of all those with interests in agriculture and forestry, it should actually be the one that takes the action and prepares everything necessary to make this segment of citizens a bit more friendly. Not only because of the amounts they will have to pay as income, but also because of the administrative work itself. If this National Assembly was able to correct the income law when it came to reducing capital gains and thereby correcting the error of the previous government and the previous coalition, and very loudly repeated this, then it would be prudent, of course, to make it very clear and repeatedly that how the previous government had done wrong and how the previous coalition had done wrong, and to amend the law also for wine growers and olive groves. Please and I suggest that you take this initiative and agree to confirm the law and then accept it definitively on Monday or Tuesday, with the corrections you will propose on the basis of what the Ministry of Finance has already done, as I understand it, prepared and put into procedure. However, if I understand anything, this is much more intersectoral coordination, not in the National Assembly. Is he already in the National Assembly? Well, that's great.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you very much. [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Please, Mrs. Pechanova, let's stick to the order. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u82	Thank you. I'd only fix the execution of my fellow Sušnik in one piece. Indeed, even after these proposals in the Income Act, amending the Income Act, wine growers, winemakers and olive farmers remain taxpayers. By not discharging these obligations, they are taxed as a basic agricultural activity, both for the production of grapes and for the production of wine, and all of which would then be taxed on the basis of cadastral income, i.e. only in a uniform way, and this is what we want to achieve. But the hostages, as I said, remain in any case. At the same time, I would like to point out once again what has also been said by a government representative that time is not an ally of winemakers and olive farmers, to which we really want to view them as a basic agricultural activity for 2005. Thus, from this point of view, it is likely that this further reflection in this direction is that the national assembly decides differently than the national working body and that all the texts and solutions already tabled by the Government can be adopted, but obviously for 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. Savoice.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The law prepared by our fellow Member Weber may not be ideal, but it is certainly useful and saves and corrects any of the mistakes we have made in the past, and we do not run away from this mistake and responsibility. This debate in this National Assembly has also been constructive and good and suggests that we agree on a certain solution to the problem in this room, and that is why such a proposal as was made by colleague Pecanov is worthy of consideration. However, I am afraid that in this final conclusion we have come to the conclusion that this is due to the prestigious importance and to the accumulation of political points for time-consuming overcoming the right, which most often does not work well. I will make my own decision and also decide in today's debates in the spirit that when the time is lunch, there is a better drill in hand than he knows after dinner, which we do not know whether it will be time for him or not. I will therefore confirm the good purpose of this law and these proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Of course I'm moved to answer that question, but I won't. I give my word to Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, the truth is that there are not too many readings, it is necessary to say that the matter was brewed at the time of our coalition, I will just admit that, Mr Sok, clearly and loudly, the finance minister looked at the finances, the government did not know what he meant, and we Members in the then ruling coalition were too careful. That's a fact, you don't have to say it again. So you'll know. But we've introduced everything, and I understand that you've co-conceived it, and now it shows that you've passed out again, or whatever we're trying to understand. A representative of the government gave an example of two countries. We could keep listing them. I'm just asking you one thing. It is the custom in this country that positive legislation is created on other occasions, that is also true because we have not all invented and it is the custom that, above all, Austria and Germany are looked at according to regulations. This is probably due to the historical development of Slovenia, as well as the mentality of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy and so on. But please. The government said so. In the field of wine, do not give an example now of those who drink beer and sugar and do not give in the case of Austria. Give an example of those who drink good wine, give it to Italy for example, give it to France for example, give it to Spain and so on. Because if you go to quality world restaurants, you'll order that wine if you're a wine connoisseur. Unless you can order 2 children of Radenska or mineral water. By following the example of these countries and by following the example of these countries where they have achieved an enviable development, we must say that in the field of olivery and winemaking and wine production Slovenia has achieved an enviable development in recent years. And the adoption or non-acceptance of the mandatory interpretation and enforcement of the law is a direct attack on the development of winemaking, olivery, which has taken place in Slovenia in recent years. And I wonder what we're losing? You're predicting solutions from the law. I agree with some solutions in there. Okay. Let us make differentiated cadastral incomes and tax burdens after these cadastral incomes. I have the idea that winemakers and grape growers are classified as complementary, not as basic agricultural activity, which I think is. But this will be a debate when the law is passed. But we have a decision to make today. I appeal that the proposal of colleague Pecanova be accepted. So that we can find one solution, not only for this year's or the 2005 tax forecast, but then say, we will take a better solution. We have the opportunity to accept a solution today and the same, so that we can take a better solution. Then what are we gonna lose and win? For the state budget, the revenue from this activity will have to be tolerated by the tax administration, as you say, and flexible, negligible. But we are going to do a lot of damage, a lot of damage to all those who have made huge progress and put Slovenia on a map of countries where good and quality wine is produced. And there's something else about olives. These grow only in Slovenia, they also reached the Brds, where last year they settled the first track and partly, which is not important for production, even in the lower Krass. And now we're telling these olive trees and winemakers, everything you've done, we're going to trample. Let's not do this, I appeal to you, let's find one solution and in a very short time we are ready, let's find the right solution for the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much. And the last one, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u88	In fact, I was most confused by what I heard from the government representative, and I know that he was thinking well when he said, "Anything is possible, but the question is whether it is legally acceptable." I would be pleased if this were understood, anything we could do to make it right for those affected, and that it would also not be wrong for the country or for other producers, processors and traders in this area. That would be the most logical and logical thing to do. But now that I've looked at all three of us that we're talking about in this discussion, for the first time, the law that is on the agenda today, for the second time, the mandatory explanation that we're talking about right now and what's supposed to happen. The problem is that all of a sudden it is obvious to those grape growers who are also ultimately market-efficient processors and sellers that they have escaped from control, that they earn too much and should be taxed. This is clearly the basic problem and it is not to be understood that something needs to be done to ensure that everyone has the same opportunities, so that everyone can decide that from the status arising and the problem, as I see it, also the law that comes your way is that these growers will have grapes and olives, who have decided to process and sell themselves, do not recognise the basic status, and that is what the gentleman on the part of the government has rightly said that there are no uniform orientations. But there are really no uniform directions in Europe when we go into these details, but when it comes to growing grapes and wine and olives and olive oil, all within the family holdings, etc., is considered a basic agricultural activity and here is the proposal that is supposed to be adopted below, and this means that it will not be saved for 2005 even though I hope that, when it has been said, everything is possible that this will also be settled for 2005 and that it will be resolved accordingly. I think that the lesser evil is at this point in time to take a mandatory explanation, thereby remedying the 2005 issue, and that further, which needs to be explicitly stressed that no one would think that a group of people would stand up for some speculators who deserve a lot, etc. I'm absolutely up for this. And I'm surprised that, as you say, a lot of this gray trade, black trade, as it was said, records [[output, input and so on]] , in short, everything that needs to be guided, every letter that is obviously going to the market must be noted that it has been sold, and it must be noted in the beginning that it has been produced, that it has been such and such costs, that I have no problem with it, on the contrary. But because they do not oppose those who now want and have been advised, which is the greatest absurdity - it was advised to those 12,500 petitioners who signed it, to go into a mandatory explanation and to be helped by the coalition's representatives by submitting this mandatory explanation - that is, that they themselves propose [[they have an association of family winegrowers and winegrowers and it is similar with olive farmers, they have a seat in Ljubljana]] , i.e.: approach to the professional and more accurate calculation of model calculations for family vineyards, wineries and oil farms, with a view to calculating the optimal index for the indexation of cadastral income in the production of wine from their own grapes and olive oil from their own olive groves; emphasis is always on own, own, own, and we are not talking about those who buy and sell further. Above all, it will be necessary to determine whether, based on this and in relation to the basic activity, something will have to be done in the agricultural law or whether it will be possible to say something about whether this status is to be fixed for the same purpose. It doesn't matter to me whether someone is producing grapes or olives for their own processing and will sell it himself, or sell it to a cooperative and go from there.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u89	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. On the proposal for a decision that the proposal for the adoption of a compulsory interpretation is not accepted, we will decide today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is now clear that it will be substantially earlier than the scheduled 16.15 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Access to Information of Public Meaning. Between us, I welcome Minister Virant and invite him to the floor for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and honourable Members! Since the marriage is short, the introduction will be very short. The Act on Access to Public Information opens the accessibility of information of a public nature to all interested parties. This amendment, which is before you, relates only to submission, to the sending of an annual report on the communication of information of a public nature. In fact, under the current regime, all debtors must submit an annual report on the transmission of information of a public nature to all public sector institutions as well as concessionaires carrying out public services. When preparing the joint annual report, the government faced the unacceptable conclusion that it had been seized, so that the proportion of reports submitted in due time was extremely, extremely low, so we decided to propose a solution, on the one hand, on which the extent of those responsible for reporting should be limited to the State authorities and local authorities alone, so that, of course, we would introduce this obligation for a higher degree of seriousness and provide for a criminal provision, i.e. a fine as a sanction for an offence. This can also be seen as another step towards eliminating administrative burdens. Many public institutions, such as concessionaires etc., will no longer be burdened by the preparation of this annual report, but this annual report will be prepared by those institutions with the most sensitive, most important and even the most numerous information. So much for the intro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The draft law was also addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice and I am asking the Committee president, Ms Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to the ministers and representatives of the Ministry. The Committee of the National Parliament for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the proposal at its 17th regular session; otherwise, the representative of the proposer stressed in the supplementary explanation that the proposal for a law entails three minor amendments to the law, namely the narrowing of the annual report of the obliging authorities, the lifting of the obligation to deal with and the adoption of a joint annual report in the National Assembly and the addition of the law with a criminal provision to ensure the implementation of the provisions of the law governing the transmission of annual reports. In their written opinion, the representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service made a comment on Article 1 which was directed only in the legislative and technical or language record of the aspect of this provision, which was also taken into account by the proposer in the amendment proposal, and therefore the representatives of this service did not have any additional comments. Members and members of the committee agreed in the debate that the round of commitments for the submission of annual reports on the implementation of the law was to be narrowed down, but we also pointed out that this amendment should not constitute less control over the implementation and implementation of the law on access to information of a public nature, and it was therefore stressed that it was still important that the Government and the National Assembly retain their role in the exercise of this control. Therefore, the members of the Committee generally disagreed with the proposal by the proposer in order to abolish the obligation to consider and adopt a joint annual report in the National Assembly. The opinion prevailed that maintaining the duty to deal with the report in the National Assembly would have a positive impact on the State authorities in order to fulfil their obligations under the law in a timely manner. Thus, the Committee adopted the amendment of the Member of Parliament, Dr Paul Ganttar, to Article 2, and adopted an additional amendment to Article 1 and, at the end, endorsed all the articles of the law together.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I see that a few people are missing, so I invite Mr Ljubeljska to present the position of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u94	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister and Government Representative, Dear Fellows and Fellows! The bill only introduces minor changes to the existing law on access to information of a public nature. The first amendment or addition relates to the narrowing of the group of tied bodies to submit an annual report on the implementation of the law. According to the proposal of the law, only state authorities and local authorities are designated as liable to submit that report. As he stated in his objectives, principles and main solutions to the bill, it seems that there is no reason for the annual report to be broadcast by every music school, pharmacy, home of pensioners and so on. We attach this proposal to the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. The debate of the members of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice also expressed agreement with the proposed solution. The following amendment, which was proposed, abolished the obligation to consider and adopt a joint annual report in the National Assembly. An amendment was adopted on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice to delete this provision. It was also supported by our Group of Members, because we believe it is right that the National Assembly is aware of the reports. It is right that such reports are dealt with by the home labour body and discussed in the national assembly, as appropriate. The next reason for supporting this amendment is the fact that some state authorities do not report or transmit them with much delay. In the Group of Members, we believe that the consideration of this report in the National Assembly will encourage and motivate state authorities to respect their obligations. The law is also supplemented by a criminal provision providing for the punishment of a responsible person who does not submit an annual report within the prescribed time limit, with a fine of between 150 000 and 300 000 tolars. The bill will also be supported by our parliamentary group in the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The next word is Dr. Gantar on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u96	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleague and colleague. Everything's been told. The sending club will support the proposed law, as adopted on the home work body. It has already been mentioned what changes the Government has proposed. Also in the LDS, we agree that it is appropriate to narrow down the number of pledges to submit annual reports to state authorities and local community bodies. While we understand this narrowing in that it is true that each individual body or institution does not report, that, for example, the education sector is reported by the Ministry, not every school, and that the ministry actually shows in a transparent way the situation in this area is similar to that in other areas. This dilemma, whether or not all of us are committed to submitting the report, was already in the writing of the law. I think that this solution, which is now proposed, is good and will not affect the implementation of the law, as this obligation to report, independent reporting is not only related to this requirement of an obligation to issue information of a public nature. As regards the suspension of the consideration of the annual report in the National Assembly, an amendment was tabled, in fact, we all agreed that the consideration of the report in the National Assembly was an important matter and that it was right to speak about it at the competent committee and possibly to put such a report into consideration at the plenary session of the State Assembly. So since the amendment to delete the article leaving this reporting was adopted by the Committee in the Parliamentary Club of LDS, as I said, we will support this law, at the same time make a comment, because this article has been lined up, it has a very, very small change in law and in the future government we propose not to go for any minor change to the National Assembly to wait a little longer, to gather more changes if necessary and then to appear before the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Kokalja to present the position of Nova Slovenije next.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr. Secretary! Our parliamentary group will also support the law for the above reasons. These are minor changes, and we agree, as already on the Committee, that maintaining the duty to deal with the report in the National Assembly will have a positive impact on the State authorities in order to meet their reporting obligations in a timely manner, which I think was also the largest substantive debate on this law. So our parliamentary group supports this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Kangler has the following word on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Minister! The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on access to information of a public nature following a reduced procedure. As all speakers have already pointed out before me that the draft law is primarily about three minor amendments to the law, it is about narrowing the cycle of bodies bound to issue the annual report. In the parliamentary group, we agree that individual entities acting under the existing law would not be required to report further by narrowing the circle of undertakings or bodies bound to submit this report. The second amendment to the law is the introduction of a criminal provision to ensure the implementation of the provisions of the law governing the transmission of annual reports. It is important to stress the need for regular transmission of annual reports and also for reporting, but we must not ignore the influence of the national assembly, but not the effect it has on the implementation and implementation of the law on access to information of a public nature by the Government or the national assembly. We will fully support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The last is Mrs Žgajner Tavš on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Minister! The new law drafted by the government is, as we have already heard today, a minor substantive change in this topic. It is true, however, that more broadly, matter is important, as it contributes to informing the public concerned about the things they are concerned about in one way or another. The fact is, we are living in the age of information, at a time when information is undoubtedly the most sought-after market goods. Those who have information in their hands can very effectively manipulate the dependent public. I'm afraid the government is aware of this at times even a little too much. I don't want to open up controversy or, if you want, unjustified doubts about the Government's good intentions in drafting the basic text of the new law on access to information of a public nature. However, allow the government to make sure that the National Assembly is overloaded because, in accordance with established regulation, it is necessary to consider a joint annual report on the implementation of the law. Sometimes we even get the sense that it would be most reasonable to abolish this kind of information by the government to the national assembly. I will say that in the Slovenian National Party we are not concerned about what is written in the law, i.e. the letter on paper, but more concerned about the implementation of the law itself by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So you won't say I'm talking to you. The data is very eloquent, and if we just look at it this year, I won't expose it. You can also see them yourself on the pages of the Slovenian Press Agency or in the press clip. However, they say that access to information of a public nature was rejected by the authorities within the government, the Ministry of Culture, the economy, in short, by the government. At the end of last year's ministerial conference in Rotterdam, Minister Virant pointed out, and I will quote: "accessibility to public information is of the utmost importance for good communication." I must say that I am surprised at this enlightenment by Minister Virant, who further stressed the incorporation of public interest into the law itself. Integrating increased public participation in decision-making and, again, I will quote, "that ministries will have to listen actively to proposals and comments from interested public and to explain in a reasoned manner any rejection of their proposals, the end of the quote. In fact, I'm actually wondering who Minister Virant, who's here with us today, is pulling his ass. Finally, he says that this action, government action, also means reducing democratic deficits. Please. Democracy requires, at least after my assessment or assessment of the Slovenian National Party, the correctness, respect and coordinated work in the interests of citizens. In addition to the executive branch of government, we have a legislative branch of power in Slovenia. Last but not least, we have decided on parliamentary democracy. It's a paradox. For example, the government publishes the purified agendas of meetings, conclusions and materials, and I'll say "post festival". Well, only after the government's meeting is over. Members of the National Assembly, other citizens and citizens cannot reach draft laws, decisions and other documents before the government meeting. Thus, it is impossible to express or make a statement about these documents physically. What's the logic here? The government should act, once again, in the public interest, so act publicly. Even before the official reference, the National Assembly has a public agenda for the meeting, and the agenda has been announced, as I have already said, after the meeting. Sorry, but, at least this is how we evaluate the Slovenian National Party, it is a kind of information block. We met with her specifically in the Slovenian National Party when we wanted to reach the agenda of the government's convened meeting, but it was not possible because obviously we are not in the category where we could show some interest. I will say that it would be very reasonable for the government, when preparing such laws, to be aware of the responsibility it must have for the national assembly and, last but not least, for citizens and citizens. Given what we have already heard today, there are minor changes, and we will also support this law or amendment of the law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading of the bill. And since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, there is no possibility to discuss the articles. That is why I am also concluding it, and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with our timetable today, in the framework of the vote, [[to show the screen again]] 10 minutes in the second hour, so we're going to vote 14.10. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the meeting, thanking the Minister for Cooperation and continuing at 2.10 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u104	Have a nice hello to you all again. We begin by voting on the national council on proposals for decisions. A classic warning before we go to the vote, please check the functioning of the voting device and the orange light must burn on the right side of the card. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on the regulation of certain issues related to the construction of the railway network and the construction of the second railway track at the distance of Koper - Divac. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision, the proposal for a law on the regulation of certain issues related to the construction of the railway network and the construction of the second railway track in the distance of Koper - Divac is not suitable for further consideration. I ask if anyone would like to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I'm Mr. Friend's proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you very much, distinguished presidents, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, we cannot agree firmly with such a decision and let me say that, if this is accepted, any possibility of starting immediately with the construction of a second track will be withdrawn. The project itself will be launched in 2008, which means great economic damage for Slovenia and, of course, also for slapping Europe, as this project is ranked 6th among the first 30 projects in Europe. We would also like to draw attention to the fact that the economy of the Republic of Slovenia expects the government to act responsibly and immediately begin to build this traffic section, because if we do not ensure the accuracy and normal operating conditions on the railway network of that section, the cargo will, as is already moving, move to other destinations, either through Italy to Austria and then to the eastern part of Europe, or, as we have already said today, via Croatia on a newly built route to Hungary. As such, Luka Reka is in the investment cycle and is expected to outrun Koper in the coming years. If we make decisions on our own infrastructure that are such stepmotherly, there will also be very serious economic damage. For this reason, I point out that for the first time there can be great damage that no one will be responsible for. Secondly, from a safety point of view, I would like to point out once again that the existing track, which is built as an industrial track, does not have adequate safety. I would like to point out that another divača can happen, and I don't know who will be responsible for the victims in this case, or even human casualties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Kangler has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. In your own name? Then I'd wait. Mr. Yuri, in his or on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, I regret that today, when the proposal for a decision is being considered, there is no minister to explain to us what the achievement is and what the consequences of the agreement in Trieste between the Ministers of Transport of Quadrilateral and the signing of a statement of intention with the Transport Minister of Italy, Lunardi, on the coordination and planning of the construction of the Trieste-Divača and Divac-Koper. There are fears that this arrangement will sooner be rejected by accelerating the construction of the second track or, as has already been said, that it would be put into a different perspective and slowed down. Today is an opportunity to allow the return of the decision of the parent body to continue the procedure of the bill proposed by the Slovenian National Party. Of course, the solutions are very brave, they are very bold, but we are aware that they allow the establishment of a system that will certainly begin to build this track. For the first time, we are so close to a situation that determines how to finance. This has been a major dilemma for all the past 15 years. When we vote today and, as you have predicted, reject this law or confirm the parental committee, the story will stop again, perhaps when we discuss the transport policy of the Republic of Slovenia, we will return to this story again, but time is running out and does not speak for our interests. Therefore, on behalf of the parliamentary group, we are announcing a vote against the decision of the home working body. We call on you to do the same and to take the time with the government to make the proposal of the law, which is today in the procedure, yet to complement and allow it to continue its course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Squeakle, if I understand correctly, instead of me on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Although it would be quite right for you to speak from your city on behalf of the Group of Members, but I will be, it is not a problem. I will add some additional arguments as to why we support this law in the House of Members, why we will oppose the parent's working body, which says that this law is not necessary. We regret that the government feels, as it says in its view, that this law is simply not necessary. I think that if this was not yet clear to the government on 12 January 2006, I hope that the Members of the ruling coalition will become clear yesterday when Mr Barroso here said that this project is one of the projects competing with a number of other projects. It is necessary to raise money within the European Union for this project. And if we have a law that will make it possible, a law that will be approved in the National Assembly - and if you vote against the proposal of the home labour body today - such a law can happen - if, of course, we have a law that will define it, then the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be stronger in the negotiations within the European Union. If today, the ruling coalition, vote in favour of the proposal of the parent working body that we do not need the law, but today you report, Slovenia is rich enough, Slovenia does not need the second track of Divac-Koper, Slovenia agrees with the track, one or two, Koper-Trist. And then, of course, those who, within the European Union, add up the number of projects and the amount of money available will be a little easier. The message that we are giving today, if you are assessing that the law is not necessary and that you will confirm the proposal of your mother's working body, is the wrong message. That is why we are voting in the House of Members against the conclusion that the law is not appropriate. We think we need a marriage. We will even continue to propose a series of laws that will tell Slovenia how to draw on money and provide projects like this and thus ensure that what Slovenian Railways need for further development and what Slovenia needs is that it remains an important "player" on the fifth corridor. The second track of Divaca-Koper, of course, allows Slovenia to play a strong role in the fifth corridor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Hvauc is also on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say that, even in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we regret that our colleagues in the party, which over the past ten and several years has shaped the fate of this country, have also regretted it. We regret the fact that we already had in our national programme in 1995, that we will start building the track in 1998 and that it will be completed in 2000. But by the year 2000, nothing had happened until 2001 and nothing had happened. What's going on around this track today is what I've already said, but I'll do it again. The national location plan has been adopted, the relevant documentation is being prepared. The European Union has also taken a step towards certain means intended to prepare everything in order to build this track in the future. Once again, I think it is right to say on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party that we fully understand the situation and support the construction of this second track, but that we are more demanding and more ambitious. We want to train the whole fifth corridor because just building the second track means removing one stopper, but leaving the corridor in many, many places in fact imprecise and in fact we did nothing afterwards. It's a number of slow rides in the fifth corridor, it's about the stiffness and pressure not over the entire course of 22.5 tons, but only 20 tons, which means that after a new track, vehicles with 20 axle pressure or vehicles on the bridge could be moved to some other wagons. In short, I do not think this is a comprehensive solution for us, and I therefore call on you to come to this esteemed assembly of the national rail infrastructure development programme, which will also include the construction of this second track to support this programme. And second. I don't think there will be any problems when we look for financial means to implement this programme to support the guarantee bill as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Please turn your phones off. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u113	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! We will support the conclusion of the parent's working body. This is because we are not for partial solutions to an acute problem such as the Slovenian rail system. We expect, however, that as soon as possible, the government, as promised, will come to this national assembly with comprehensive solutions. We will examine these, and if they are appropriate, we will also support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I don't think there's been any more reports about the presentation of the parliamentary groups. That's why we still have different explanations. First up, Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! I am sorry and must report that I will vote on this issue in my own conscience and in my own personal opinion. This means that I will not support the proposal of my mother's working body to reject this law. This marriage, in my personal opinion, is good. It is economically economically oriented, it needs some beautiful corrections and I think it would be good for further consideration and also for reception. The second course of Divaca - Koper is not only a track that is very important for Primorsko. This track is important for all Slovenia and also for Styrians. If we were to adopt this law, we would be able to obtain documentation, projects, land and financial structures more quickly and efficiently in order to start building a second track, to provide transport, smooth transport from east to west, there is also an opportunity and opportunity for Styria to receive it, from Maribor to the Austrian border, the second track and in this way this fifth corridor, as we deserve it. It is true that I am surprised that in the railway area there are some union lobbying and some individual lobbying that hold the development of Slovenian railways and the infrastructure of Slovenian railways back. It will certainly be interesting to consider or review the Slovenian Railway business report and compare their losses in last year and in previous years. And where is the rehabilitation of the Slovenian Railways and how far has this rehabilitation come? Therefore, in my personal opinion and belief, I believe that it is imperative that we adopt such a law or that it be adopted at least [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. The government says "we will systematically approach this project in 2008" on the ambition of this project. In 2008, we do not need another track or, if we are to build it, the minister can only take the new route to the sea. This is already happening to us today, and those who do not know this fact should be aware that we have a downturn in contract signing, almost monthly, on the Slovenian Railway Holding, precisely because we do not actually have sufficient quality infrastructure to drive, that is indeed a problem, commercial trains or failure does not allow us such a trans-shipment as we might have if we were to have a permeability on this part. Secondly, I cannot agree that you will reject the actual project, which is placed in the sixth place and is pan-European. We have money, but we don't know why we don't start by buying land, why we don't start with hydrogeoedetic research, I don't know, by making a study on the decision-making of the material, but when we dig these tunnels, there's going to be a lot of this material. Why don't we start by opening a technical office? We can do this today, why are we putting it off tomorrow? And you call that a systemic approach. Tomorrow, when things are delayed, when the cargo goes to other destinations, we'll start making tracks, please. In the meantime, there will be another great tragedy for which no one will be to blame. Nobody. You'll all be washing your hands. It will be interesting to see how we will vote on this and I will certainly keep this vote sheet today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Nevertheless, I would ask that we last another 20 minutes, half an hour, to do this vote with dignity and peace, and that only those who have a word speak. And now Dr. Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm joining my forerunner myself, and that's how I'm going to vote. I find it difficult to accept the excuse that the matter will be prepared in a systematic, comprehensive way in the future, because this has proved to be a long time already just an excuse to move away, to move forward for a time to come, and of course I cannot accept it. On the contrary. As long as we set the deadlines and begin the construction of the second track even more, because the funds are already provided for this start and even more important, the resources are provided from resources that will not burden the whole or even in a small part of our budget, Slovenia, then we will be so much easier to support the additions in that comprehensive system-wide proposal in government law. I fear that this delay is not a reflection of one real priority, that it is not a reflection of ambition to resolve in a comprehensive way, but rather a delay in the payment of one debt and some arrangements, which, of course, are not the place to talk in the public. Because of this, it is precisely because of the faster and more important development of the economy of Primorska and, of course, the whole of Slovenia, because I would not like to lose our priority because of our wrongly set priorities, the fifth corridor across our country, to lose this opportunity because of our mistakes, we miss it and then we will regret it all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u121	Colleagues and colleagues! Ambitiousness is commendable, and I can also blame us for stepping in today. We have always been very ambitious, in 1995, and we want to be today. And the responsibility for stepping in place is shared. It is difficult to share it between us, because it is a solid political continuity with the project's sponsors, from independence to independence. And we had all the governments in charge of this task, so we're in the same position. I support, of course, the continuation of the procedure under this law, and I call on you to reject the proposal for a decision of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u122	Thank you very much. To the word of Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Personally, I am in favour of partial solutions if these solutions lead to some ultimate goal, to some good, good common or final result. So this project was introduced among the so-called rapid infrastructure projects within the European Union, I think that as early as 2004, even in our documents, there are no obstacles in our legislation and documents that the documentation needed to build such a project and prepare for it would not be prepared. However, I am not in favour of such a law, which is nothing but a loving law, which saves nothing, which is saved back into annual budgets and so on. That is why it is necessary to take the matter seriously, I agree, but not with this law, but with the law that the government is going to make, I hope to prepare it as soon as possible. And as it is said, on the basis of all this, it is clear that I will support the decision of the parental committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u124	Thank you very much. And mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Chairman. I will vote against the decision of my mother's working body, because I simply want the second track, which is necessary for the survival of a large part of the Slovenian economy, to be built as soon as possible. If we wait too long and make other plans and programs, I'm afraid instead of the second track, we'll start talking about narrow rail. I am even more concerned about the fact and the duality. When we talked about the necessity of hiring a billion-dollar loan to build motorways, despite some different political views with interest and sympathy, I listened to the debate of the proposers on the basis of how credit is necessary and necessary. Here, in the construction of railways, there is duality - instead of quickly turning our sleeves and taking action, we are obviously going in the opposite direction. That is why, of course, I am voting against the decision of my mother's working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Hwauc, this time probably in his own name or otherwise, it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u127	Yes, thank you very much. I will support the proposal of my mother's working body. Not because it would be against construction, but because I want us to take Slovenia seriously to modernise railway infrastructure. My friend earlier told me that some of us voted on the committee probably with tears. I will vote as I said, perhaps even with tears, but not because of this law, but because we have such a poor, boisterous railway infrastructure in Slovenia. In the past years, when political points were gathered, everyone swore on motorways, on the road network and so on, and unfortunately we ignored the railway infrastructure. With the national rail infrastructure development programme, which will solve the problem in its entirety, not only the fifth but also the tenth corridor, but not only the construction, but also the deadline, but also determine or somehow provide a financing model, I hope that, at least as we have solved the highway programme, we will also solve the problem of this rail network. I would just say this, demagogy, that the funds at this point are assured that we're just waiting to roll up our sleeves, that's not true. The funds are not far off if they were funds or if they were funds, I don't know why we haven't built before, so that's definitely not true. And the comparison was mentioned earlier with the highway program. I have already said, I expect, gentlemen of my colleagues, that when a similar law arrives, as it has come for highways in this assembly, we will also then raise our hand and vote in favour and allow this rail network to finally be modernised.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you again of what Vice-President Peče warned you yesterday, and I would like you to avoid using names in your explanation of your vote, because then of course you provoke Members and Members to want to have a replica, and the replica is not in the explanation of the vote. It's mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u129	On my behalf, I will say that I will vote against the proposal of my mother's working body. And I'd like only one more argument related to your thinking that money is or is not. This project was included in 30 priority projects. This project may no longer be one of 30 priority projects. If you refuse a political opportunity today to reach such a law, then it is likely that this will no longer be a priority project, greater. Why is it good to consider this law only now? Because the next financial perspective was agreed a few months ago and around 900 billion Slovenian tolars are provided within this Slovenia. Here it is counted that in seven years this project would require less than a tenth, approximately 9% of the points, of these 900 billion. Who else as a national council will define what a priority project is? How does this national council work? By adopting laws. Today you do not want to get to the law that would say that the second track of Divača-Koper is an integral part of the fifth corridor that we control and we will be able to control in Slovenia, something that is a priority for Slovenia. Wrong message to the local public, stupid message to European technocrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u130	Thank you very much. We're voting. Thank you. There were 68 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 28. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the assembly has adopted the proposed decision of the parent committee and that the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - second reading of the proposal for a law on the control of strategic goods of particular importance for safety and health. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to Article 7 tabled by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] In your own name? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. Thank you very much. There were 67 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 39. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 7 is not accepted. As no amendment has been adopted to the bill, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will vote on the draft law on Monday, 6 March of this year, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Income Act - the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Income Act is not suitable for further consideration. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own or on behalf of the parliamentary group? Yes, Mr. Weber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u131	Thank you for the floor on behalf of the Group of Members. Today we have held a broad debate on the proposal for a law amending the law on income. The law itself, as I have already said, has been introduced mainly by the fact that we have been faced with very clear arguments from wine growers and wine growers and olive farmers, why it is necessary to amend the Income Act and in particular Article 57, which in fact taxes wine growers and winemakers and olive farmers in two ways, and this causes very serious problems, including non-competitiveness, and especially unnecessary administration. This proposal seeks to remedy this weakness. The government, which has defined itself before this law, does not oppose it in its opinion. It says that it is unnecessary because an authentic interpretation of this Article is also included. But it happened that the authentic explanation was everything but an authentic explanation. So it goes beyond its purpose and that this change is possible only with the adoption of the law. The government then said that it would introduce its own law, which was supposed to solve the problem on it, as it says, in a more appropriate way. However, this remains an open question, the time available for wine growers, winemakers and olive farmers to apply the 2005 income calculation on the basis of basic agricultural activity or on the basis of cadastral income. If this law is not adopted today, of course this procedure will be delayed. They will have one year of tax accounting, for which they will make a great deal of effort to meet all those requirements imposed by legislation. In the following year, when the government is supposed to submit its proposal, of course, this system will have to be abandoned and accounted for in a completely different way. This, my fellow Members and colleagues, I propose that we today listen to the winemakers and olivers and reject the Committee's proposal and vote that the law is a suitable basis for further consideration and, as I said, we are trying to apply the 2005 income calculation in particular on the basis of the cadastral income for winemakers and olive farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you very much. We are still in the process of explaining on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Friend, on behalf of the House?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u133	Yeah, sure. Thank you so much for saying that. In doing so, I would stress only one fact. That it is those who defend farmers on the big mouth that you will do great injustice to them today. This activity is the most under attack within the European Community, and you know that it is essentially the least available to them and that, even in our country, farms such as these do not meet European standards so that they can normally survive because the processing area is the same as it is and the land configuration is the same. Why not help within the country those who are willing to survive themselves? It's just olive trees and winemakers. In such a way that you promise to listen to their problems, and lastly, with a fig in your pocket, I won't mention names, because I can't do that, it's nicely said a very hypocritical act. And that's what you did. Normally, we will not support such a proposal in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u135	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I would like to say that we will support the decision of the parent working body, so we will vote in favour of such a decision, which says that this law proposed by colleague Weber is not suitable for further consideration. In fact, such a proposal as proposed is not appropriate. At the very least, if we wanted to accept it, it would have to be amended fairly and amended. However, since it does not contain articles, all the articles that should be covered by this law cannot even be amended. That is why we have decided to reject this law today, of course, to confirm the conclusion of the parent’s working body. But here, without such and different speeches as we have been listening to them for two days by some Members, I say that the government coalition will solve this problem. It will be solved in the way it was already advocated in 2004, when those who propose these laws today have adopted a solution that is now in force and that creates problems in this area. We are well aware of these problems; you did not realize them at the time when you proposed it. However, if you go to see magnetograms, there are still three parties in this National Assembly today who have already warned you of the appropriateness of the agricultural tax solutions. Some of this has already been rectified by the Income Act. Above all, we have corrected what is said about taxation of complementary activities and standard expenditure, when we raised this standard cost by 25% and thus made the system comparable to neighbouring Austria and Italy. As far as this problem lies ahead of us today, this problem will be solved through the taxation of cadastral income, but not as it is now proposed by this law, so that winemakers and winemakers will be equally taxed after the cadastral income, but simply by making a difference here, which will also reflect the actual situation and be fair and fair to those who produce wine and to those who produce only grapes and do not produce wine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask again for a little more silence in the hall so we can finish the session. We're voting. [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Mrs. Pecanova, it is not my duty to remind you to apply for the vote. Two of us are watching the hall, and we haven't noticed you. Now I don't know who's wrong. So there were 64 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 21. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - to consider the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 57(2) and (5) of the Income Act. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads as follows: The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 57, paragraph 3, and Article 57, paragraph 5, of the Income Act shall not be adopted. I ask, who wants to explain the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I'm protesting again because you didn't drive things the way you should. In one of the previous mandatory interpretations, the Group of Social Democrats pointed out that the coalition does not make mandatory interpretations in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. And now she's done the same thing. Not to mention that, despite the fact that the law that you have just declared inappropriate and that the government proposal that has already been tabled into the National Assembly is in fact simply changing and could also be corrected in cooperation with some flat-rate excuses and reiterating how much worse it has been in the past and how much better it is now. No, you are not prepared to do anything to help people who have been affected by wrong decisions or bad decisions in the past. For this reason, we believe that this mandatory interpretation is an image of the quality and expertise of coalition parties, because you cannot even do this so that one mandatory interpretation could be in accordance with positive legislation. That is why, of course, we will support the decision of the parent working body, just as we rejected the decision of the parent working body in relation to the law that has just been rejected, because the law was quality, correctly incorporated, lawful, in accordance with the Constitution and also, of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The thing is, it wasn't filed by the right people and by the right party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. We will vote against the decision. Allow me to base our actions. At the end of the year or the end of the 2004 term, one set of tax legislation, including on income, was adopted in the National Assembly. Those of you who were then in the National Assembly will remember that before the vote we received exactly one kilogram and 35 decigrams of amendments. And we had to vote on that. Of course, we protested against such conduct at the time, but nothing helped. I can say that at that time, our fellow Member, Dr Andrej Bajuk, particularly warned at the time, and remember that it was this Member as a finance minister that he had to correct the nonsense that was adopted at the time last year, but of course we were not heard about it. Now something similar is happening to us on this matter. There was some cowardly egg here, too. What did you think at the time when you were adopting this legislation? I don't know. But the fact is, the then government and then the finance minister Dr. Maramor, of course, blessed all of this. He probably didn't write those laws, we probably know that. But the government supported it, and the 1,35 kilograms of amalgam came. In the morning they had to vote on it and, of course, it didn't work, there was a lot of nonsense in there. We see that now, and you admit it's a lot of nonsense that we need to fix. That is why, of course, we will also vote against such a decision, given that the government has already introduced a new law into the procedure that will make these anomalies, I will say, right now, that I will not name the right name, correct. We do not understand and personally do not understand those who have spoken much today, and you knew this problem to the point. In 2004, when you accepted this, you had no idea, or you were being misdirected, respected colleagues and colleagues. Those of you who weren't here at the time, I apologize. Nothing's flying on those. We will fix this, but we find it hard to believe that what you cooked at the time would be capable of cooking today. And we don't believe what you're saying today. We will fix this, it is already a new law, which has been said, so we will vote against that the procedure with the law can be restored, that the matter can be resolved as we have warned in 2004 at those 1.35 kilograms of amendments. We will therefore vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u141	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The thing is, I'm not gonna say, problematic, complicated. For several months now, interviews on this subject have been ongoing to try to resolve this issue, which was misdirected years ago. We will therefore vote against the decision of the parent working body, and in March we will try to resolve it, on the one hand with the law that the government has already tabled, and we will still have to take a thorough breath during the drafting of the decision-making law in the Parliamentary Chamber, and also an authentic explanation. As I have already said, our parliamentary group will oppose the decision of the parent working body. From the committee meeting to today, there are many coordinations, many discussions on this subject, and we think this is the best way to resolve the matter in due course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I suppose the noise in the hall means you're not quite sure what we're voting on. Let me warn you that the conclusion is negative. Therefore, the decision is as follows: the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 57(2) and (5) of the Income Act shall not be adopted. So much so there'll be no mistake. Now we proceed with an individual explanation of vote, if you'll allow me. Thank you. Mr. Weber. Please, if I'm not mistaken, I've invited Mr. Vebra to the floor, Mrs. Pecanov! It'll be a weekend soon. Would anyone else like to do it on behalf of the Group of Members? I apologize, Mr Weber, on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Žnidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u143	Thank you very much, chairman. We will support the Committee's proposal because the Legal and Legislative Service has informed us that the mandatory interpretation has exceeded the rights it has in order to amend the law. At the same time, we are informed that the legislative service of the Government has also found that the mandatory interpretation goes beyond the possibility of interpreting a legal provision and that solutions that are not in law cannot therefore be changed every five minutes and we will therefore vote in favour of the decision that the compulsory interpretation is not appropriate and cannot be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that. We will also vote against the opinion of the parent working body, which does not mean that the authentic interpretation is adopted. In doing so, this authentic explanation goes back to the procedure and we understand it in this direction, so that it can be incorporated in some way into a proposal for a solution to the law. The law is already in parliamentary procedure. I am talking about the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which will give rise to the fact that winemaking and oil production are no longer a basic agricultural activity, repairs through the taxation system and returns these two activities to the principle of taxation through the basic agricultural activity. This error, as did colleague Petan, was explained by the amendment of the Income Act in 2004. Many of us who are still in this House have already warned about this. It seems very good to us that after less than two years, you have also come to know this mistake and are now ready to correct it together. Of course, we cannot accept all the evidence we have heard in this Chamber today, since the current government coalition against agriculture is an anti-agricultural coalition. That's funny, to say the least. However, a number of aspects of agricultural taxation have already been rectified by the previous amendment of the Income Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u146	Thank you very much. One more explanation. If the decision is adopted, which means that the authentic interpretation is not accepted, the procedure shall be terminated. If the decision is not adopted, it will again address the mother’s working body and draw up an authentic explanation or text. That's the situation. Do we have anyone else on behalf of the delegation now? I don't think so. Do we have any specific explanations? Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to say that I had to take a breath first and think about it, because you're real artists when it comes to knitting things so that nothing is understood anymore. I must say that what I said on behalf of the parliamentary group still holds: you can't prepare any ordinary mandatory interpretations of the law. So you might feel a little awkward in front of the people who elected you. But now I'm in a situation where I don't know what to do. On behalf of the Group of Members [[...]] [[Laughing in the hall]] Go ahead and laugh! Go ahead and laugh! It's a shame what you've been doing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u148	Please! The guests in the stands will feel that the wine is already between us.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u149	It's a shame what you've been doing for the last half hour. The fact is, people who depend heavily on your conduct in the National Assembly are now in the gym. And I'm going to make this decision -- I'm not going to tell you how I'm going to vote, and you're going to look at the vote sheet if you want. I will vote so that I can help these people, because this is what I think is our job. Everything that's happened in the past, because of me, you can talk about all you want, you have every right, you're right. However, Mr Terchoon has said nicely, with abundance, you have also said, a kilo and 35 decigrams of paper, with the form of amendments, along with the abundance of material, Members have overlooked certain things, not only coalition, but also you have probably overlooked many things. For this reason, I think it is less crucial what happened two years ago, as much as it is essential, that we decide today or decide that it will be right and good for people. Here I can tell you that I will be happy if you will [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u150	Thank you very much. It's just that technology has done its job again. I ask you kindly to speak only to those who have a word and who are registered. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. I would like to remind my colleagues that they have started to solve something, that they have passed a law on income that has not been discussed in Article 57, so they have not even considered that this problem exists and even less so as to solve this problem. The problem began only after we had actually obtained data from wine growers and olive farmers and, of course, there was a legal proposal which has been fully corrected both legally and legally and however you want. There was absolutely no comment that this law could not be implemented in practice or that it would not solve this problem. He was saving him in a legal way. You decided to solve it in an illegal way. This is worth filling in, for we will certainly be in a position to decide important things again, and we will, as it turns out, not by the rules of procedure, not by law, not by the constitution, but by the law of anarchy. What has now come into play by the members of the groups can lead to a pure anarchy. So we don't need the rules of procedure of the National Assembly anymore, we don't need laws, we don't need a constitution, we decide what someone likes at some point. I can make my own decisions, I don't mind voting for this anarchy right now, but we will remember that when we decide, I think even more important things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u152	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u153	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The confusion you've made, which you're obviously going to make, is really perfect. The main problem now is what will happen to the 2005 forecast. If we are to solve this problem, we should support the law of the Veber and, of course, prepare our own quickly. We have not done this or have not done so, but you will obviously now vote by relaunching the mandatory interpretation procedure. What winemakers and olive farmers are asking themselves up there on the terrace, and those who listen to us and will follow us, is what they will have to do now. They do not know on the basis of this decision, which will obviously be the same as ours and yours, whether they will have to make a tax return or not. You didn't tell them that. If you were serious about helping them, you should support the marriage. I know you're talking in the hallway, so make sure you don't make a tax return, and you'll pay a smaller penalty than you're gonna lose, because we're not going to prosecute you. That's why they don't have any guarantees. Mr Petan spoke in such a way that I did not understand what he was trying to say, whether it was for a mandatory explanation or not, whether it was for a solution or not. Mr. Sok then turned it 360 degrees. People will leave this room so they won't know what you gave them. And that's unfair and misleading, even if you have good intentions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-03-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u154	Thank you very much. We're voting. Thank you very much. There were 70 Members and Members present; 7 votes in favour, 59 in favour. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 59.]] This means that the national assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the mother working body will therefore prepare the text of an authentic interpretation for consideration at one of the future meetings of the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on access to information of a public nature in a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments were tabled in the second reading of the amended draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading of amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. At the same time, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that due to the amendments adopted in the home work body, the law would not be harmonised. Does anyone want to explain on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] In your own name? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There were 67 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the last item, to the continuation of the 12th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on classified data. On Wednesday, 1 March 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make it inconsistent. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[Nobody.]] In your own name? [[Nobody.]] We're voting. There were 65 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 14th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, to be resumed on Monday, 6 March 2006, at 10 a.m. Until then, I wish you a pleasant weekend. Thank you.
