ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! The time is 10 pm, so we will begin by continuing the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Zvonko Černač from 15 pm, Dr Pavel Gantar, Franc Kangler, Miran Ptrč from 17 till 19 pm, Dr Mitja Slavinec and Mr Alojz Sok. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LAW ON PUBLIC PARTNERSHIP, EPA 1025-IV. We have two hours and 55 minutes to discuss. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I find that there is no representative of the government, so I will give the floor first to Mr Starman, and if there is still no representative of the government, I will suspend the meeting. Mr. Starman, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I welcome it all very well. At its 22nd meeting, on 9.11.2006, the Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft Law on Public-Private Partnership submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. At its 20th meeting, on 28.9th, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision in the first reading of the draft law that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. The meetings were usually attended by representatives of the proposer, namely the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service. The members of the Committee received an opinion on the proposal from the Legislative and Legal Service of 26.10.2006 and the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia of 9.11.2006. However, members of the committee received a review of the amendments to the bill and a review of the Committee's amendments proposed by the coalition groups. At the outset, the representative of the Ministry of Finance gave reasons for the adoption of legislation which are in the systematic regulatory framework of the Institute of Public-Private Partnership and for the regulation of certain legal institutions deriving from European law and for the implementation of Directive 2004/18 in our legal order. The proposed law is prepared in such a way as to encourage the private sector, the aim of the proposed law is to facilitate and promote private investment and to ensure the rational implementation of economic public services and other activities, and to enable the efficient and prudent use, management and exploitation of natural goods. The proposal for a law has important advantages, which are entirely in the face of public finances, the promotion of infrastructure development, the allocation of funds to other sources, and the transfer into the financial rules and other risks to the private sector. However, there are also some, not weaknesses, such as the existence of political and other risks to the private sector, public resistance to private capital, lending to individuals who are usually more expensive than government lending and increasing the requirement for control mechanisms and fear of losing public influence on the performance of public tasks. In the opinion of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, this points out that, in particular in the field of social activities such as health, education and culture, there is a great danger in the public-private partnership, and it should be based in particular on the fact that it will be non-profit-making and not profit-based, since such services could thus be alienated or denied access to all in the same way as before. The debate also drew attention to some of the risks, particularly the unresolved health, education, culture and child care. We practically do not have our national strategies here, which would also regulate this area. In particular, the Committee then adopted the amendments in its debate and included them in an updated proposal for a law. This opens and legally regulates the way the public-private sector enters or integrates into the function or investment of the state. We consider, right and proposed, and the Committee therefore agrees that it is necessary for the law to be adopted and made possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Meanwhile, Mr. Minister, Dr. Bayuk, has joined us, and I give him my word. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u4	With all due respect, Presidents, I suggest you put to the vote, but the agenda today is quite clear. Alineja - Proposal for a Law on Public-Private Partnership, first indent - Complementary explanation of the Government's proposal, second presentation of the report of the parent working body and then discussion of amendments. I do not object to you giving the floor to the Minister, but I want us to do so by a proper procedural vote. Because, of course, I would like to see if a single parliamentary group would miss their presentation or give it a word. And I'm in favour of giving him the word, but with the procedure that applies in this National Assembly because the government has missed the start of the session. I will vote in favour of such a procedural proposal, and I will also expect that, at any time, any other opposition member group will miss the fact that you will also be procedurally equally respectful and allow this to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u5	Thank you very much. It is true that the procedure is the Queen of Democracy, so I will put this proposal to the vote. I think that we are also concluding or that it is a quorum, and I ask that we vote on the proposal whether we can exceptionally give the representative of the Government, Mr Minister, a word after the representative of the committee has already submitted the report. We're voting. Is this a technical error, or did no one want to vote? Please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would suggest that because this has happened once before, and I know that the President has only asked if anyone objects, without a vote, and I would suggest that you carry out this procedure, as has already been done in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u7	That is true, only I had the feeling that Mr Squeakl objected to such verification of the will of Members and Members. Well, I took it as an objection. So let's do the vote again. Please vote. Mr. Bajuk, you have the floor. Please. [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] Then I'm doing a ten-minute break. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u8	Ambassadors and Members, thank you so much for coming back. Given that we have a visual conclusion, I'm going to start the session before the 10 minutes due to the economics. I would like to re-vote the proposal of the Mag. She's been practicing whether to give Minister Bajuk an exceptional word after the committee's representative has already spoken to him or not. We're voting. Thank you very much. There are 55 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 3. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] Mr. Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! First of all, I'd like to apologize in person for 1 minute and 32 seconds for missing this meeting, and I apologize. However, I would like to start by saying a few words about this law before you today, the law on public-private partnership. The text of the law is supplemented by the amendments adopted in accordance with the first reading and the Committee on Monetary Policy and Monetary Affairs. All amendments, both coalitions and opposition, which have contributed to a clearer and more transparent text, are taken into account. Unfortunately, because of the different views on the role and importance of the public-private partnership, but in particular on organisation, all the amendments and amendments to the law could not be taken into account. In drafting the law, we have followed the experience of European countries that have been successfully implementing public-private partnerships in practice for many years. Let me point out a mandatory test of projects over the value of €5.2 million, as well as the creation of a specific unit for public-private partnership in the Ministry of Finance. The law proposes and imposes a new mandate on the Ministry of Finance: monitoring and consulting in the selection, evaluation and implementation of projects, as well as keeping records of projects carried out in one form of public-private partnership. On the basis of the data selected, this is the analysis carried out, the Ministry of Finance will be able to draw up guidelines on the basis of good practice and prepare standardised contracts for the most common forms of public-private partner cooperation. These are operational tasks that require an execution operator. The public-private partnership for Slovenia is not new, as various forms of cooperation are permitted by existing legislation. Due to the large number of legal acts that regulate such cooperation separately across areas at national level, we do not have comprehensive data on such cooperation, which I would say is the worst on the effectiveness of such cooperation. The issue of project supervision, particularly at local community level, was also highlighted in its opinion by the Council of State. The creation of a special government public-private partnership service would not, in our opinion, contribute to greater efficiency in the implementation of such projects, but would unnecessarily contribute to the expansion of the state apparatus, which is not cool with the direction of this government and the concluded coalition agreement. In order to ensure transparency over the implementation of the public-private partnership in Slovenia, it makes sense that the Public-Private Partnership Council is headed by a finance minister. I would like to reiterate that public-private partnership is not privatisation, it is not privatisation. In such cooperation, the public partner must ensure the supervision of projects. In addition to what I have already said, I point out the seventh part of the bill, which is fully devoted to supervision. The conclusion of public-private partnership contracts shall be the free will of two parties whose dispute shall, except exceptionally, be settled under bond law and only exceptionally by administrative procedure. The essence of successful cooperation between the public and private partners is a well-prepared investment project in which the public partner defines the purpose and objectives of the investment, the subject of the investment, produces a market analysis both on the procurement side and on the procurement side and prepares appropriate calculations of economic eligibility under the assumption of traditional, that is the budgetary source of funding for this project and taking into account when these budgetary resources are available. The public partner must define as closely as possible what he wants to achieve with the proposed investment and leave the way to achieve this goal to the private. IF a public partner offers cooperation under conditions that ensure a more favourable implementation of the project as presented in the investment programme, negotiations shall continue and the cooperation agreement shall be concluded at the end if such cooperation proves to be economically more favourable. A well-prepared investment programme is also a marriage so that a private person does not gain too much profits or will only be able to do so in cases where the public partner has been so inefficient that the private person can analyse it due to better organisation of work. However, quality services must comply with and are not subject to this law. Only procedures for the conclusion, implementation and control of concluded public-private partnership agreements are subject to this Act. Reports on the implementation of public-private partnership projects will be obtained by the public partner from the operators at least once a year and the public partner must also participate in the annual census with the public-private partner. Given that it is a partnership, the public sector concludes with the private if and when it wants and if there is a mutual interest. However, the public partner’s interest is that the provision of services is cheaper at an unaltered quality or better at an unaltered price. It's a so-called minimax principle. This principle is not based on the organisation of a private person in itself, since the provision of services through such organisational form, such as a society or an institution, may be more expensive or less quality due to higher costs. Offices and agencies may also be private and, as such, are not subject to the public sector wage system. The private interest is to elevate funds invested in the project or programme, and profit-generating is one of the options that is by no means the only one, so it makes sense for the public partner to know its business motive. When concluding a public-private partnership, it is necessary to ensure the widest possible competition and cost control so that the profit through unnecessary commercial costs does not go to the expense of the private person. The power of public-private partnership decision-making is in line with the proposed text of the law already in the government, as the decision to establish a public interest in the conclusion of the public-private partnership and the implementation of the project in one of the forms of public-private partnership is taken by the Government or the representative body of the self-government local community. If we want the public-private partnership for Slovenia to develop, it is necessary to delete Article 80j of the Public Finance Act. If we are to implement a status partnership as one of the forms of a public-private partnership in practice, it is necessary to abolish a provision that prevents the sale or recapitalisation of a stake in public institutions. In order to attract private capital, co-financing of public infrastructure, it is necessary to repeal the provision in the Public Finance Act, which provides that public infrastructure serving the public service or economic service is not in legal traffic unless it is a transfer to another person of public law. And this is a very important feature of this law. In the event of a divestment of a stake in public institutions or economic institutions, it is also necessary to respect the other provisions of the Public Finance Act which provide for the manner and procedures for the sale of the financial and real property of the State or the municipality. The deletion of this provision is a condition for the conclusion of an institutional public-private partnership in the field of social activities. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not take additional powers by such conduct or reduce its responsibilities under the current regime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Since the meeting held its first reading of the bill proposal at its 20th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. This brings us to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will be leading on the basis of the review of 20 November. First, I am putting to the debate Article 20 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. As usual, I would like you to sign up by pressing a key or a representative of the government with your hands up. I'm opening the application. Thank you very much. The first one has the word mag. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u11	Mr President, Members and Members of the Government. The next time the representatives of individual parliamentary groups are late, we will expect the vote to give the floor to the person who missed a minute of 32 seconds or 5 seconds. Secondly, the content of the law and the content of the amendment to Article 20. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we estimate that the result of this law will mainly be that Slovenians and Slovenians will pay for individual services provided by public-private partners higher prices than they have so far. This is our first and important comment. Secondly, when this amendment is adopted when this law is passed, or otherwise if this amendment is adopted and this law is adopted, at least on the basis of the amendment, the Government, and not only the Minister of Finance, will decide in which case the public-private partnership will take place. No matter what we say about this amendment, if the law is adopted in its entirety, we will never again face the issue of privatisation in the National Assembly and in the municipal world, I will even say - the untransparent privatisation of public institutions, public economic institutions and public enterprises that this law allows. I think it is clear to everyone in Slovenia that it is best to invite private partners to specific areas of public service delivery in a short time. This will make it possible to reduce taxes for a short period of time, and if we decide in Slovenia to build private hospitals, then we will be saving something in the state budget for a short period of time. For example, the National Assembly will not finance the renovation of a hospital, but the next step will be when this hospital is built beyond the Public Procurement Act, by the way, and taking into account the profitable interest of the partner, the price of insurance services, for health insurance companies in Slovenia at least 12, 15 or 20% higher. And our basic comment on this law is based on the fact that in the debate at the home labour body it was very clear that not only because the opposition so speaks but because it is shown by the experience of other countries that have gone into it, because the State Council is also talking about this in order to reduce accessibility in the case of insurance. In the case of other matters such as education, culture and so on, all Slovenians and Slovenes are entitled to services provided so far by public institutions, public economic institutions and public companies. We've proposed some amendments. The amendment, which is the first proposed, simply speaks of the Government being fully responsible for the issues of this law. The Slovenian Constitution says that ministers are appointed as individual constituencies in the National Assembly, and I do not know who managed to convince the other ministers of the Government of Slovenia that they simply left their competence to decide, for example, the introduction of a public-private partnership, culture, education, health care, in the field of transport to the Minister of Finance and a working group or a special organisational unit. I can't imagine if the government needed a government development service to design, they say, a list of projects. I wonder how now an official team at the Ministry of Finance can decide on thousands of billions of state assets and their transformation into a public-private partnership. That is why we have proposed that this is the indiscretion of the Minister for Finance, but the power of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. We are proposing some other amendments, and we have also mentioned that it would be good to make it clear when deciding on a public-private partnership, to take full account of the relevant legislation, that ministers who are directly responsible and the Minister for Health should be interpelled because he is privatising health care, and now, with the Public-Private Partnership Act, the Minister of Finance will be involved in public-financial constraints on contracts, that he must enter into a separate public-private partnership. We do not oppose the entry of private capital into Slovenia. By the way, we have even drafted some amendments to the budget that have been rejected. However, we are opposed to the fact that a few thousand billion assets could be privatized either in the municipal world or in the National Assembly. The latest data on the consolidated property balance sheet of the Slovenian State and municipalities show that this property is 6,100 billion tolars. Let me give you two specific cases. Trbovlje Hospital. If we financed the Trbovlje hospital from the state budget, its renovation, then we would be in this hospital Trbovlje [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u12	Mag. Squeakle, I'm sorry, but an amendment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u13	President, that's exactly what I'm talking about. So far, the decision on the Trbovlje hospital is being made by the Minister of Health. The Minister of Health has proposed and manages a budget fund, which invests in the Trbovlje hospital, in order to make the provision of services at the Trbovlje hospital, which we all pay from our health insurance fees, as cheap as possible. Under the law and Article 20, if the amendment is not adopted, the decision on investment and the possibility of a private partner to come to the Trbovlje hospital will be decided by the Minister for Finance, then we no longer need the Minister for Health in this Government, because it is his exclusive task that two things be determined by the Minister for Health, Policy and Conditions for Investment, runs the budget fund and so on. That is why our amendment, the President and Members and Members of Parliament, is precisely aimed at not being in charge of all issues under Article 20, but is a government service and is then the so-called Public-Private Partnership Council of the Council, which is set up at the level of the Government. Finance ministers always have problems, especially when they come up with too much revenue by regulating the budget. And it is wrong to give the Minister of Finance a decision as to whether the Trbovlje Hospital should be private or public. It's wrong because the Minister of Health has to say something about it. However, as we will show below, it is most wrong that neither the Minister of Finance nor the Minister of Health needs to come to the National Assembly with this issue, even though we have a clear stipulation in the Health Law that the network is established by the National Assembly. We will talk about this in the amendment to Article 153, which is why today would no longer be the case. Let us consider another example, Mr President or Members and Members of Parliament, at the level of the congregation. This is similar because it is a question of whether the government service will be at a level to say so, either to the government or to the ministries. The Ljubljana Passenger Centre is a typical example of a public-private partnership that is currently being prepared. If only the mayor of the municipal council, the Ljubljana City Council, decides to do so, or if only the Minister of Finance will decide to pass through the Minister of Transport, which has an important impact on the key foundation of this passenger centre, which is the railway infrastructure, we will have at least a conflict situation. The Minister of Transport is responsible through the Railway Agency for financing railway infrastructure or rail lines under this passenger centre and the Minister of Finance will agree with the organisational team on a type of passenger centre. And it doesn't matter whether the passenger centre on, as it is called, what is currently the debate in Ljubljana, at the current level, or whether we are going to let the railways down 4 to 5 meters to open Ljubljana in these key restrictive corridors, these are the roads under Celovška, Vienna and so on. And of course, to say that it is up to a team of bureaucrats or technocrats, if you want, is an even better term that has not so far made any public-private partnership, and let it be at the level of the Ministry of Finance, so let it not be run by a state secretary who is politically responsible and comes to the National Assembly to explain what types of projects will be carried out, we believe that it is wrong and that it will primarily allow the untransparent privatisation of thousands of billions of assets that we have managed to retain in Slovenia in the last 15 or 65 years or 6 years. There will be a greater and more important discussion on this topic of privatisation under Article 153, which is why I am stopping here. The experience of the public-private partnership leading to the short-term problem of the Minister of Finance and the infrastructure, the monopolistic provision of services or the provision of services in social activities gives to the private partner is such that the final result is a higher price to be paid by all Slovenians and Slovenes. That is why this cannot only be the responsibility of the Minister for Finance, but of all the relevant ministers who must come to the National Assembly with national programmes and with a serious debate on whether we will allow capital to the field of energy, culture, health, other social activities. This is our main comment. And I hope that you will support these amendments by 20th, 21st and 153rd. Otherwise, we will oppose the adoption of the law because this law solves short-term problems in Slovenia and creates much higher costs and prices for all citizens and citizens because it creates and allows a monopolistic position in the series of points. We can talk a lot about this with the Minister of Finance. We have some experience. Also from the countries where they started, the matter is very simple, for a dollar per unit of garbage exports in Slovenia you get a better service than where the public-private partner runs it, because the public-private partner must take 20% of the profits into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u14	Thank you very much. I invite the Minister to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to clarify that Article 11 of this proposal clearly states that the decision on public-private partnership, the decision to establish public interest for the conclusion of a public-private partnership and the implementation of a project in one of the forms of public-private partnership under this Act shall be taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or by the representative body of the self-government local community. The fact that no one else will know anything about these things is simply not true. Furthermore, the principle of transparency, as set out in Article 13, clearly states that all calls and other procedural acts in the public-private partnership process must be published on the global Internet and that an active partner must ensure that the public-private partnership is made available as much as possible and in proportion to the purpose, nature and subject matter of the public-private partnership projects and the regularity of the search for candidates. Article 82 also clearly proposes that the concession should, for example, have been awarded by the candidate on the basis of a call for tender. Article 100, as in the case of the status partnership, and Article 42. That there is some systemic or entrenched impossibility here is simply not true. What we have just heard is that this does not require compliance with the Public Procurement Act, it simply does not. As far as the organization of this is concerned, we really think, as I said in my opening remarks, that does not reveal, if I may, some warm water. In fact, there is a public-private partnership, and such cooperation Slovenian legislation currently allows, but in a way that is not systematically regulated. As I have also said, at national level we do not have an overview and data on how this has been done so far, we do not have complete data and there is no system to provide us with what is the effectiveness and experience in various areas. I am trying to arrange this in such a way, and we believe that some new service that is supposed to carry out this, such as the proposal of this amendment, does not actually achieve such a goal as the argument that there is not enough experience at the Ministry of Finance, but also at some new institution that we would now create. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Mag. Squeakle's got a replica. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u17	Mr. Secretary. See, when the public-private partner becomes 51% owner in the new passenger centre of Ljubljana, this construction will not take place under the Public Procurement Act. Read the law we have in the next item of the agenda. It will not take place under the Public Procurement Act. Therefore, you will not have competition between the bidders and you will not have a 20-28% reduction in prices, but he will give it to his operators. And, Mr Minister, there is corruption here, not only in countries, if you want, a developed market economy, even in transition countries, and, of course, you cannot guarantee that it will respect the Public Procurement Act. This, however, has been published on the World Wide Web that TriGranit is going into this, of course it will, but it is not the point. The Public Procurement Act will not be respected. And secondly, Mr. Secretary, you've cut off other resources. The Ministry of Finance will write manuals for public-private partnership in health, please. And lastly, when the Director-General of the Ministry of Finance is in charge, and this will be a team in the Ministry of Finance, he is not politically responsible; if this is led by a government service with the Minister, with the Secretary of State, then we will meet him at the National Assembly. Otherwise, you will be working on this at the Ministry of Finance on all other matters that you are no longer a part of.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u18	Thank you. He finally has the word, Mr. Testen. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u19	Thank you for your word. A warm welcome to the President, to the Minister with his fellow Members, Members and Members. We will not support this proposal in our Group of Members. We will not support it, however, because it has been said many times that the Law on Public-Private Partnership is a statutory law, which certainly deserves a uniform approach to the management of this public and private partnership, and this can only be done with people who have a professional public-private partnership. As far as the profession is concerned, I think that these people are the most in the Ministry of Finance and also according to the content this part belongs to the Ministry of Finance, so there is no dilemma here. I think that many other European countries have a similar organisation as proposed here. I'd like to point out something else. The proposal of this amendment seeks to break down this section or this approach to several ministries. Here I would first point out that by doing so the expertise will be "whispering" or that there are no people who would professionally master all these areas. In addition, I believe that the ministries will have the opportunity to participate in this, with individual projects and also in the world to be formed, in order to be able to participate. As far as higher prices are concerned. The higher prices were mentioned by my predecessor, although in principle higher prices are also possible, but I think it is right here that the Law on Public and Private Partnerships has such control and that such legislation adopts that it will consistently monitor the quality and price of all these services. I don't think there's any fear here that these prices for the same quality of services will change. As far as ordering is concerned, it's past the Public Procurement Act. If it's non-public funds, then that's how it's gonna be. If it's public funds, I don't think so. The basic dilemma that we see here is still that some oppose the entry of the private sector or private capital into public interest resolution, and that in the area of construction to services up to, we will see later, other areas as well. For once that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I am opening a second round of debate on Article 20 and the LDS amendment. The application shall be made. If he wants a minister, so be it. Thank you very much. We have quite a few debaters. And I call the first to the word of Mr Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I will discuss Article 20 and the amendment to this Article, and I will try to stick to the Rules of Procedure at least as much as my colleague, Squeakl, who spoke just before. I will not support this amendment because it seems to me that the solution as offered in this Article is entirely appropriate if some other articles governing this area are also taken into account. But I might say a few things about false claims that this is a matter of privatisation. We all know that's not it. One is a partnership, and the other is, if we sell, I don't know, the shares of the company or the whole, and we say, "We privatized it and we said goodbye to it." Nor can I agree that this will simply overtake some high prices and worse services and thus worse access to services. We are looking for new options precisely because some services are not accessible to our citizens because we are unable to implement them because we want to raise quality because we want them to be available to our citizens and citizens as wide as possible, so that the waiting periods are reduced and so on. That is why some resources are needed. If the state as such had sufficient capital, enough money in the budget, then such solutions would certainly not be sought. And if that were the case, then some things would have been better arranged by now. However, because they were not because we wanted to raise the standard, we decided to find some new solutions that are mainly new in Slovenia, and elsewhere in the world they have long known them and have also produced some good results. That quality will fall, that there will be higher prices, because this is an agreement, for some voluntary relationship between two or more partners, because those who enter this partnership, whether it be a country or a local community, do not need anyone to enter into this partnership unless conditions are good if they do not guarantee higher quality or lower prices, then this partnership will not work, because no one will bend hands because they want to be a partner. If we have the assurance that this will take one step further, then this partnership will go into this partnership, and otherwise we are looking for other options; and I am sure that no one will go into any partnership if it means one step backwards. This is what I think is crucial and I do not see any danger of rising prices or reducing the quality of these services. That's why I think these concerns are completely superfluous. As far as this amendment is concerned, I will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Before I give you a replica of mag. Squeaky, let me say that I appreciate the good intention to speak only of the 20th article of the amendment, but the debate went a little further, just as everyone usually does. Mag. Squeak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u23	Mr Hvauc, Article 98 - forms of the status partnership, partnership with the sale of the share, partnership with the establishment of the legal person. Article 153, repealing the provisions of the Public Finance Act, which prohibits privatisation, unless decided by the National Assembly on the basis of a national programme, on the basis of annual decisions drawn up by the Minister of State. Cancel the ministries in their role and allow for non-transparent privatisation with status public-private partnerships.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u24	Thank you very much, mag. He's been practicing, and you can just keep going because you have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u25	See, our debate on Article 20 is very simple for some Members. In Slovenia, we have a Constitution that defines what we call ministries. And it is not only the Minister of Finance who is responsible for the public-private transport partnership. This requires a government service, because that is also what the law says to create a government service, and this is not only the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, but also of the Ministry of Finance. We have proposed this because in the second reading, you have abolished all the amendments that have been proposed very easily. Yes, a public-private partnership in respect of this law and the substantive laws, including the Law on Economic Public Services, but all these gentlemen from the Government are abolishing it. They say it's roof law. This isn't the Public-Private Partnership Act. This is a law that allows the untransparent, past the National Assembly, through the municipal councils the privatisation of that billion state assets because the government does not have enough money to, for example, invest in the Trbovlje Hospital. Who will pay the price when it is necessary to add 20, 15% of the profits to the price of the service? Insurance, no one else.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I understand all three amendments as related. That's probably why you can't talk to one another. As far as I am concerned, the arguments for amendments to Articles 20 and 21 are not convincing enough to support them. With regard to Article 153, this is closer to my support. I note this because it seems to me that all the time at the declaration level it is possible to provide so much as 100% support in the National Assembly, and then, in every detail, the basis of this law is being challenged. It's not, at least not for me, a valid reason. It is interesting that the opposition trust of the government is growing, as we see that the Ministry of Finance is slightly failing, but these two are also not separate from each other, so that it should work past each other, especially if the amendment proposal to Article 153 should be taken into account, when something should be said, however, in the National Assembly, about whether the door to sell opens or does not open; and I therefore think that this amendment is closer to Article 153 of my support. In other words, the purpose of this law is to open the door so that we can also invest in what the state is capable of, because by public means we ourselves are not able to divide the risk by such a risk on both sides, the two partners are likely to increase control as a matter of urgency. If we increase control, there would probably also be greater accessibility, better control, possibly even lower prices, because prices and costs do not necessarily mean "assurance" of what we now have, this could mean rationalisation of work, rationalisation of costs, greater efficiency and consequently lower prices, we say, production of the price despite what social democracy has rejected, that is, profit, rest. On account of what I am now listing, I am assessing that this law, without these two amendments, allows for the entry into the area where this capital is required by Articles 20 and 21. I believe that this can increase accessibility to services, perhaps even make it possible to provide some services that will not be at any cost at all if we do not have adequate infrastructure, and we will not have them without additional resources. And that is why I would suggest that perhaps we pay more attention to the 153rd article, which I think is more rational and just closer to my thinking. This 20th and 21st articles or amendments to this article will not be supported by me either.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u29	Thank you, Prime Minister, distinguished minister, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm not going to support the amendment to Article 20 because he didn't convince me that it was better. I am sure that in Article 11, it is clear enough that the Government will adopt the programme. In the government, however, all ministers of the Slovenian Government are not only Minister of Finance. If some colleagues do not have so much confidence in this ministry, they obviously want to put it on the government. I have no problem with this being done by the Ministry of Finance, which is empowered to do so, which is why the Government also authorizes it to conduct these procedures in cooperation with the Government, in cooperation with the municipal councils at local level, as an administration, local self-government. This is not a privatisation law, because we do not privatise health and education, preschool education, this concept does not sit well, we are talking about partnership. The partnership is, however, a public and private interest if the two agree. And if they agree on all the points that can certainly be very broad and very difficult and, of course, bear responsibility and risk, then surely every partnership has a risk, perhaps this or that. And I think that in this law, which, according to my assessment, is sufficiently transparent, with sufficient safeguards in such and different areas to achieve this successful partnership, everyone, one partner and another will have to do a lot to achieve the final contract. I hope and wish that this marriage will bring in the advantages it wants, perhaps it is already a little late that we have already missed some good stories because we have not yet had this marriage. And I hope that, at local, regional and national level, it will gain the interests of both sides and that it will bring what we want; faster development; more money from private to public stories that are important for each community and also for the country as a whole. Why should the government, not the competent ministry, deal with this? I don't see any need, no argument, at least I haven't heard it in the debate now from my fellow Member, so I find this completely inappropriate. Higher prices, what will happen, education, health care, preschool education. What would be the fear of a private person coming into preschool? I don't make up a local story, I don't think, I don't know how much interest there will be. As long as we have such standards, such legal frameworks, surely no private will force us into preschool education because conditions are impossible. But it is true that the private interest usually has a profit, definitely, but it is not always a profit only, the only moment, and so are the others. For pre-school education, however, there is absolutely nothing to worry about that there is going to be a big crowd outside the door of the public-private partnership, but there will be somewhere else where there will certainly be a greater interest, in my opinion, in the privacy of such and other individuals. I just want this law, as a Member, to be accepted as soon as possible, and to give an open way to potential private partners to come to this place, which is now to some extent possible, but not as this law shows, the possibility of this cooperation. I want it, and I will support it, and this amendment does not bring anything special, better, but more importantly, some fear of the Minister of Finance himself that this story is too big, empowering the government of this ministry. I don't think I have that problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Let me say that the first consideration of the law has already been done and we are trying to follow article 20. But I know, because you also know my philosophy that it's impossible to rip an article out of a whole and treat it in a vacuum. I give my word to Mr. Stebeth. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment to this 20th article discusses who should now be the one who is more responsible in the hierarchy of government relations. I believe that the President of the Government is also responsible for the work of labourers in the lowest office, wherever and that the Ministry of Finance in this case assumes a role that is somehow more defined by law in terms of coordination, advice, transparency of good and bad practices, as well as control over the awarding or conclusion of public-private partnerships. I will oppose this amendment, as well as the amendment to Article 21 and Article 153, because I do not think it appropriate to prohibit certain public-private partnerships. If you will allow me, Mr President, given that one of the Members has also fedalized the procedure, both at the beginning of today's meeting and in my debate, so that I can extend my part of the debate a little. I don't mean to fedalize it, but to respond more to what has already been said. In concluding a public-private partnership, it is certainly necessary to protect public interest in determining the basis for such a conclusion. However, the public interest may vary from private investment to private partnership to certain tasks, investments, infrastructure facilities, etc. Often, because you get something sooner, the prices of services can also be higher where you have to invest and take risks; invest in private funds and take risks through private means. Whether under the terms of the public-private partnership agreement and the rules laid down by them, or whether they are municipal decrees or laws, you will succeed as a private investor by investing under the conditions laid down by the public interest to recover the appropriate resources at the prices of the services set. It is all a matter of contract and a determination adopted in the public interest by the relevant authority, by the municipal council or by another authority at the state level. We should never have taken away the autonomy of the decision from these levels. However, it is necessary to ensure the control of such partnerships, contracts and conditions due to possible acts and damage that may be caused. In 1992, 1993, 1994, I think that this was the other government in this independent country, privatising public companies in ways that resulted in public, compulsory public economic services being found in private companies, in stock companies. Cases have not yet been sanctioned in some ways in order to be protected and defined by public interest. We have a case, maybe a colleague will tell [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u32	Mr. Stabe, you might want to go back to the 20th. I've been pretty tolerant, but... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u33	If you have tolerated, you will also tolerate me, not abuse and feudalize the procedure, but I am trying to explain why I am against in some uncompromising way trying to defend an amendment where the government is supposed to take over instead of the Ministry of Finance. For me, it's the same thing, exactly the same thing. Somewhere in an organ of the government or this hierarchy, the matter must be realized. I am disturbed by socialist thinking, where on the one hand private capital is welcome either from outside or from Slovenia, which is even better, and on the other hand it is supposed to be something bad. Certainly, everything is in the game of relations and contracts concluded by the public interest with private interest and here certainly needs operational and very, very consistent and with experience supported by control. So it doesn't matter if it's at the Ministry of Finance because it's part of the government. The government as such is too much, I'd say, an undefined notion in this case, who's responsible for it. After all, for more than 10 years at the Ministry of Finance, we have an office overseeing some so-called local community budgetary behaviour. Very, very sometimes unpleasant office, but sometimes unnecessary. I object to this amendment. I also oppose false and uncompromising opposition in public-private partnerships in certain areas. Everything depends on the partnership concluded between the two parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I personally believe that this amendment is totally unnecessary and that such changes here practically do not bring any added value to this, in my opinion, to an extremely important law. I also believe that the Ministry of Finance is certainly a more operational body, which has several professional references as well as people who can effectively control or manage the public-private partnership in professional and organisational terms when we start implementing it in Slovenia. The government itself is certainly the one most responsible in any case, if not subjective, but at least objectively and not least the President of the Government. Regardless of how the Ministry of Finance will carry out this, the ultimate responsibility lies with the Government and the President of the Government and thus with political responsibility. I would not like to go beyond the content of this amendment, but I must also replicate a word or two to the deception which today is also at the expense of this basic purpose of the public-private partnership. The purpose of this law and then the conclusion of a public-private partnership is only to introduce in Slovenia some form of business, entrepreneurship, which will contribute to faster and more efficient development in areas where so far there has been insufficient interest and, lastly, capital. And here in this public-private partnership he is still a key player and will be a key player of public interest, that is either the Government or the local community. They are the ones who will lay down the rules of the game and private capital, but the private interest will be the one who will submit if he sees his own interest in this. And here to talk about how this account will increase the payment of services, that privatisation will take place here, that is certainly misleading and false. We also have the power today to track certain areas that may also be under the authority of some public interest, which is in the implementation of some concessionaires, and therefore services are not more expensive, they may be cheaper. Why? The private initiative is certainly more rational, has different motivational effects, and in no case is it just a motive for making a profit. Let me conclude my debate just by not supporting this amendment, and I think that the original solution in marriage is good enough to make this law a reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u36	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! For the introduction, just a few words. Today, the National Assembly has an extremely important law, the Law on Public-Private Partnership, which Slovenia has been in bloody need and has actually waited 15 years. He thinks so much about what is not strictly related to Article 20. Now to Article 20 or the amendment proposed by the colleagues and colleagues of the LDS Club. Allow me to analyze it by paragraphs. The amendment in paragraph 1 provides that the Government shall establish a special organisational unit as a government service. The problem then arises in the following paragraphs. The amendment in the second paragraph provides that competent ministries shall monitor, advise and, in accordance with the rules, cooperate in the selection, evaluation and implementation of public-private partnership projects. The third paragraph of the amendment provides that the competent ministries shall keep records of and monitor public-private partnership projects and shall provide professional assistance to other public partners at national or local level in the drafting of acts. Let's go to paragraph five. The fifth paragraph of the amendment provides that the competent ministries shall provide for education, exchange of information, public presentation and promote public-private partnerships at national and local level. If I add all of this together, these provisions of the amendment, then the second, third and fifth paragraphs of the amendment, mean that the proposed government service would in fact have no powers other than to cooperate with the Council for Public-Private Partnership in this work to provide the Government with the proposals of the Council. We must also be aware that the possible adoption of the amendment would require a significantly larger number of experts at each ministry, the multiplication of the public-private partnership project records, which would lead to impossibility. If I scroll into one sentence, I hope to say that acceptance or that this amendment actually means a generator of impossibility. I believe and trust in the Government's proposal for a law or article 20, and I would also like to point out once again that abroad, a special group or service dealing with public-private partnerships is always a part of the Ministry of Finance. For these reasons, as has already been said, on behalf of the Group of Members, I reiterate that we will not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u38	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Versnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. We do not support the amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. The amendment speaks of a specific organisational unit that develops, monitors and participates in the implementation of the public-private partnership in the Republic of Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u40	Mr. Versnik, please turn your phone off.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u41	The law proposes that this service be formed within the Ministry of Finance. All the consent of the public-private partnership is given by the Government and we think of it as a service that is focused on one place and that is watching over the implementation of public-private partnership cases, with concentrated staff, with concentrated capital in the experience of good business practice and leading this over the public-private partnership. We are the views of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group that the amendment means breaking this single service, as proposed in the original, to the ministries. This means that, for the first time, the ministries will have to have some staff, probably more than one, so that they will have to keep records and perform all these functions, which are provided for under this law at the Ministry of Finance, in each ministry separately. For our views on this, it is totally irrational and we will in fact lose sight of the developments that will take place over the years in the field of public-private partnership. And there's no way this organization is appropriate. As a result, we believe that ministry services will also be involved in the process itself. I am sure that the responsibility for this will not even be taken by the minister or this service, but it is a coordinating body that, according to the problem, communicates with individual ministries clearly within the government. Thus, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we believe that this means an opaque and uneven management of public-private partnership projects. More about the others in the next amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u42	Thank you very much. And Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to support this amendment and say that, in fact, it is interesting that, from all the debaters in the coalition that I have heard so far talk about this amendment, I have only seen a few concrete arguments in the last two debates, why it is not good to accept this amendment. However, I believe that, again in the same way as ever, whenever the opposition proposes an amendment, there is no talk of how it could be improved, it is said that the coalition could table an amendment to the amendment in due time and correct it so that it is appropriate. For example, the argument that after such an amendment, there is widespread decision-making and monitoring and record-keeping and advice throughout the Government in order to lose the purpose of the special organisational unit and so on. No, no, no. It is clear that the thinking that some reasons have been so that this amendment can be at least partially followed, but there is no will to make, not just this one, but any amendment of the opposition, ever attempt to correct, so that it achieves the meaning that the amendment actually offers. The fact is that it is not healthy and it is not good for all public-private partnerships to be decided in all departments by a body which will depend on only one ministry or which will be within one ministry alone, and by a ministry that has to take care of the finances. For this reason, we cannot agree that the area of social activity in particular is, if we mention it, as colleague Milan Swickl said before, say, health care, say child care, say anything else, that it is included equally in the whole law. I apologize, Mr President, that I too will intervene a little beyond this amendment. However, I must say that these three amendments are linked to each other, both to Articles 20 and 21 and 153, and in some ways relate to the fear of privatisation, social activities and not so much because the fact is that the privatisation of public economic services has long been glassed and is also carried out without the Public-Private Partnership Act, while privatisation in the field of health, child care, education, culture, sport is an attempt, but mostly proved unsuccessful, particularly by the failure of the private sector to make public-interest claims more efficient, cheaper, more rational than the public sector. To prove that the whole type of activity carried out by profitable operators in the field of social activities for, I will say, the level of services and also for accessible services is harmful but not beneficial. That is why I believe that, although I will say, it is in the current situation, when, say, the competent Minister for Health is even more radical than any other branch in the Government regarding the desire to privatise its sector. It is said that it forces the congregation to privatize health homes, to privatize or grant concessions for virtually all basic health care. Here I cannot agree that this moment of the Minister of Health is such that he agrees to privatise the entire area and believes that this is the most correct way of implementing healthcare, from the primary to the tertiary level, that it is useful to privatise the facilities in which this healthcare is carried out, that this can be an argument for moving the field of government service dealing with the public-private partnership to the Ministry of Finance. This is not an argument, but not because the Minister of Health, I hope, will fall in interpellation, and another, because then the new Minister of Health will probably act differently than he did. It is said that cooperation between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health will then be significantly more useful for the whole area of healthcare. I must say that in this law, our parliamentary group and our party have actively cooperated, in principle, to support and support this law, but we are explicitly dissatisfied with the fact that the coalition, despite the formal expressed will to participate in the partnership for development, does not in any way wish to take into account those proposals which, in our opinion, are for the area of social activities that are not directed against the public-private partnership, but are aimed at restricting the public-private partnership in the field of social activities, so as to prohibit access to this partnership to profitable capital, is said to be able to carry out a private part of the partnership only to non-profit private organisations, according to domestically, society or anything like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you very much. There are still raised hands, so I am reopening the debate. The application is ongoing, of course, we are still with Article 20 and the LDS amendment. Thank you very much. The first one has the word, Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u45	Thanks again for saying that. I will be very brief, and I will discuss only what we are discussing, Article 20. I agree with the existing dictatorship, which is included or proposed by the Government or the Ministry of Finance, and will not support the amendment. Why not? I myself believe that this part or this area must indeed be at the Ministry of Finance. In particular, in order to ensure that the Ministry of Finance is concerned that public money will be properly loaded, it is said that what public funds will also be properly loaded, or if I may say that any project, where the so-called public-private partnership will be called, will also be protected as a rule. What am I trying to say? I certainly do not imagine, as the opposition or the applicant has said, that the Ministry of Finance will say when it finds out that there is no public money, choose a partner. I don't see it that way. But the Ministry of Finance will make sure that the financial structure is completed, that it will be known how much public money is, how much private money is. Look! Comrade Squeakle, you laugh, but I'm telling you, my colleague Pecanova is early, we mayors know things when you had to get the Ministry of Finance's approval for every investment so far. Why? It is precisely because the Ministry of Finance, based on an investment project, has given its consent if you have a financial structure completed, if you know how you will make this investment to the end and that this investment will, in fact, be viable at the final stage. And I can't imagine in this case that we're going to say now, but now it's profitable if the services for users are so much and so much higher [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Which was heard several times. [[...]] On the contrary, services will not be higher than they have been so far. We are now talking here or we are only discussing a large part of health care and education. I expect a lot from this law for the realisation of other projects that we actually have, where we have not had private partners or private investors so far in certain investments. That's why I won't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The word is Master Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u47	The Netherlands, a member of the European Union, a country which would be very difficult to claim to be an underdeveloped market economy, by law prohibits the establishment and operation of profitable hospitals. The Law on Public-Private Partnerships over the Minister of Health, if you reject the amendment, the amendment proposed allows for a public-private profitable partnership and is even announced that the Trbovlje hospital will be the first.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I don't understand this amendment, Comrade Squeakle. With this amendment, in the third paragraph, you set up a government service for public-private partnership when I read Article 2 of this Act, which deals with the definitions of terms, does not speak of government service. Even more so, if I read this sentence: In line with my findings, I am running away from this amendment: to draw up a strategy for the implementation of the public-private partnership and to formulate proposals and initiatives and submit them." It is said that the Public-Private Partnership Council of the Government Service for Public-Private Partnership, this is a body, some new probably Minister without a licence, I do not know what is meant, and says that this strategy can be proposed, proposals and initiatives forwarded to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for admission. What if I don't? It is said that a new minister without a charter adopted a strategy and it stopped there. And it's a talking strategy. The world is wrong, at least as I understand it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Squeakle, he has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u51	Look, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. The government, through ministers who are self-inflicted and, of course, previously appointed, corresponds to the National Assembly. And to say that privatisation through a public-private partnership in the field of education, culture, health, transport and so on is decided only by the Minister of Finance, the abolition of other sources or the need to amend the Constitution and say that the Minister of Health is no longer responsible to the State Assembly for the area now governed by the Minister of Finance. Let's get him out of the budget fund. You said yourself that we are doing this at the time and that we are doing this because we do not have enough public money and the Minister of Finance will be very easy to solve the problems that every Minister of Finance has. We no longer need a Minister of Health to regulate health care investments in health care. That is why we propose that this is a government service for all departments to operate in this government service, as we have designed a development service, a development service, by the way, which has prepared 34 major projects in the second half of the year, which it says will be implemented through a public-private partnership. Let this government service do what it is prepared to do as a big project, but not that it will now be done by a team that is apolitical, which is technopathic at the Ministry of Finance. The maximum level is the CEO. The Director-General never comes to the National Assembly. I would like to see the Secretary of State and the Minister of Public-Private Partnership with the first project to come to the National Assembly. And if you confirm the 20th, 21st, and 153rd, we will discuss this in the National Assembly. Otherwise, today you are making a commitment, Nova Slovenije, President of New Slovenia, the Minister of Finance takes full responsibility for all other ministries and he decides on a public-private partnership. He is the one who is not the last to negotiate on behalf of a public partner. Congratulations, Minister of Finance, on your acquisition of such powers, I just don't think he's formally capable of implementing them, nor is the technical content team at the Ministry of Finance qualified to implement them because we have portfolios covering substantive issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u52	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I'd say I'm against the amendment to Article 20. The law that we have before us systematically and normatively regulates the public-private partnership and introduces European practice, or Directive 2000 04/18, into our legal order. We said that this was a roof law and I would point to one important thing, because I did not see from the debate what was, in fact, substantively important. The fact is that the basic advantage of this law is in defusing public finances, it is said to be this matter and the fundamental advantage of this law, which should also be applied in fact. When we talk about public finances, I have to say that it is necessary to say and, above all, to identify the possibilities for this public financial burden, it will probably be necessary to prepare very soon some changes to this law, which will be carefully regulated. These things are not regulated by this roofing law. In particular, what are all the investments made by the State that have already been made and what is the role in the management of the tax money and in demarcating all those contributions made by the State to investments that can be returned by themselves? This will probably happen very quickly with the very application of this law to the need for this law to be completed primarily in this part where the function of risk and of course the possibility or investment, including the profits of those who invest, without which we will never, of course, ever be able to invest it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The meaning of the law will not be realized. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Pechet to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u55	Respectable present. I personally assess or firmly believe that we are human beings, so of course I should not be the basic motive for the law before us, what the speaker said before me, namely, the burden of public finances. I personally assess that the law should be accompanied by a much higher note, a note by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, especially in terms of the quality of services, the availability of these services, and not least, but in my opinion, of course, the most important fact, the prices of these services. And only then should we see if the law will have and only have the so-called effects of decommissioning public finances. I would like to point out, however, that the amendment before us to Article 20, at least after my assessment, extends a function that does not currently have an existing Article 20, a so-called function of transparency, supervision and, lastly, expertise. But I'm afraid just when you don't want to agree to greater transparency, greater control and greater expertise, we have different views. That is, if you based your theory that public interest and private interest are one and the same, then you could give up all three functions. However, it is and I can certainly say that public interest is not the same as private interest. Private interest is accompanied by another effect, that is the effect of profit, whether in raising prices or entering ownership. And everything before that should be public interest. However, public interest is in quality and affordability and, above all, accessibility. From this I think it is entirely justified for the National Assembly to adopt the amendment to Article 20, i.e. that amendment which, at least after my assessment, would prevent or make it more difficult to raise prices unjustifiablely, which would otherwise be precisely because of the lack of expertise or the binding of the decision solely to one ministry. On the other hand, according to my assessment, with greater transparency, with the dispersion of the so-called expertise, everyone in their field, if we already have a minister to decide something, would have caused us not to enter the so-called system of subterranean entry of private capital or private shares into the ownership system. At the same time, allow me to point out another matter which, according to my assessment, is very important, namely the wrong assumption of many in the National Assembly, when it sees in the so-called public capital only positive things. It is not true that concessional relations in Slovenia would lower the price. However, we need to know that there are, as far as concession relations are concerned, areas of operation of the local communities of the so-called concessions directly awarded for the exercise of some interest in the local community, and concessional relations or tenders awarded through public tenders. And one and the other concessions need to be strongly, strongly separated. One is in circulation to be by the state or local community in order to satisfy interests at a limited price, the price they set to be municipal saints or mayors, depending on the rules of the game they have in the local community, while the other are concessions that are so-called market oriented. Therefore, it is inappropriate to monitor each other under the same tactic in the framework of the proposal for a law on public-private partnership. And according to our assessment, the law in many ways lies on the wrong assumption. Minister Bajuk or the applicant of the material is based on the fact that he is equal to the public interest in private interest. The Republic of Slovenia already has a public interest in the Economic Services Act. As far as the so-called private interest is concerned, we also have it defined in the Company Act, where one of the main leaders of the Capital Company Act is the creation of profits. And whoever, if I make a withdrawal from here, estimates that we can achieve public interest through profit, of course, this is wrong because the high price of a service is not in the public interest. From this title, I personally estimate that, at least in a small defence, the so-called distinction between public interest and between the interests of capital would make sense to adopt the amendment referred to in Article 20, the subtitle of which already states its content, if we are based on an existing, finance ministry, is the holder of the bill, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and the proposal, as proposed by the amendment, that it is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with all its, plural, ministries, with all its conduct in particular areas. Do not limit ourselves, let us try to bring the matter at least in this sphere, a very sensitive sphere, i.e. the spheres of interest of capital and public interest closer to the ministries, to bring the individual professions closer to one another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u57	Thank you. There are two things I'd like to talk to you about. First of all, with regard to privatisation, which has been mentioned and which some feared in their discussions, I do not know why, because in my judgment this is also one of the purposes of what we are doing now, because if we read the law, we see that it is two kinds of partnerships. It is a contractual partnership where there is no privatisation, where concessions and contracting relations are involved, and it is a status partnership. And there we have a d.o.o., we have a d.d., we have a European stock company, and these are not without private inputs. And so, it's supposed to be, you don't have to hide from it, and that's not bad either. It was probably intended to introduce this in order to attract new capital, attract new controls, share risks and consequently improve services in these areas. Whether the services will be good, whether prices will be low, regardless of this law, depends on how they manage, how they run the companies we are talking about today. With regard to the second part, i.e. this suspicion that the Ministry has too many arbitrary options with regard to Articles 20 and 21, I predict that we will prepare an amendment which will be the current bad dictatorship - it is indeed poor - Article 21 - because the last sentence of Article 21 speaks of the Ministry'may' strategy, proposals and initiatives being transmitted to the Government, which it accepts. So it has no choice whether or not it will intervene if the Government accepts it must intervene. And by deleting that "may" thing, then arbitration, I'd say, drowned in the sand, and the government will have to get it anyway, and accept it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you. The fundamental difference between the Government proposal and the amendment is that we propose a service within the government, the ministry proposes a department within the Ministry of Finance, something like that. And if we were smart, Mr Minister, we would certainly be taking responsibility meaningfully to the wider body, as we have taken over, not only because of any weakness, but also because of the excessive competences you will receive, and, of course, the burdens on your shoulders. Why am I saying this? Because the amendment we have proposed is preparing a partnership. Partnership in government, which means that all ministries within their area of responsibility, such as the care of transparency and public-financial sector decisions in cooperation with the private sector, would nevertheless be more connected. Why am I saying this in particular? In the case of, say, Mr Minister, whether subsidies are taxed or not in the field of culture, the Ministry of Finance has one interpretation and the Ministry of Culture has another interpretation. For example, there are already many different conflicts here, and if there were to be such a partnership, there would be more consistency on such an important issue. Private capital, which, for example, will enter the area of culture, I will give the Lipice case, I will give the case of NUK, where the state currently thinks that as a private partner will take on a huge share of the construction of NUK, it is in fact only one buffet, but it hangs on the big bell; the case of Vibe, which is in the national programme and requires a public-private partnership. Will this financial department within the Ministry of Finance be able to absorb all the problems of specific specific areas? It will not, it cannot, because already on subsidies or on other taxes or on other issues it cannot, because they are specific. And protection with a government service under the responsibility of the Prime Minister, but not you, or someone else who will lead the Ministry of Finance, would be a significantly greater, significantly more systematic responsibility in some way to a very important entry or completion of a transition within the public sector, which will always be, I fear, more interesting, but also potentially, by welcoming the partnership, it would be better if it were more transparent and easier for you, that of course, you or your future successors, who will lead the finances in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u60	Thank you, too. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Mag. Franc Gniedarsich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In any way, I do not oppose public-private partnerships in the economy, nor in social activities, but in principle it is right to be aware of what this really means. All practices so far in the European Union have shown that the price of a service from the public-private sector is higher than that guaranteed in certain areas only by the State's investment. The example is the home of pensioners, elderly citizens in Rogaška Slatina, who is the cheapest home built on the principle of public-private partnership, and in it the care day is 21% higher than the homes built by public funds. It must be said that the price is higher at the expense of that part of the private contribution that they want to repay within a certain period of time, to secure their profits from the invested money. And profit requires a profit-making operation of an institution or institution or of anything or service established by public-private means. In this regard, I would like to point out that it is not only about the cost of these consequences for citizens, but in this particular case the higher price will also be paid by the municipality when the citizen fails to meet this higher price and the difference will be covered by the municipality. It is said that from a public-private partnership, municipalities in certain areas can only lose and nothing else. Look, private investment in dental care. Go to the dentist. I've been monitoring this job for 35 years, and prices are so high today that those who don't steal can't afford it anymore. That is why I fear that something similar in the field of health will happen if we go into a system of full privatisation or such a public-private sector, that public funds will build hospitals, health homes will move into private hands, and then there will be a search for the profits of those who will cooperate within this privatisation. In this case, I fear that the matter will be similar to that of economic ownership, when some overnight became owners of companies and almost transferred from the Baruch stick to a rich man in principle, it is imperative that we do so as soon as possible and recklessly. I will support this amendment, but not because I would like to support the opposition, but because it has within it some security guards that can help prevent, at least for the field of social activities, an unbiased investment or approval of public resources in cooperation that can benefit only one party at the expense of the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? Good. I'm reopening the application. Please. Thank you very much. I'll start with Mr. Secretary this time. Please, Dr. Bayuk, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to draw attention to two comments that have come from the honourable Members. On the one hand, Member Bajc and just Mr Rezman. The fact is, both the text and the amendment itself actually have one thing I'm going to say is the need to fix. As Mr Bajc himself pointed out, there is still the word "may" in the amendment proposal, which in fact changes either the Minister of Finance in the draft law or this new agency or institution proposed by the amendment, in fact gives her the opportunity to decide for herself or decide whether to send or not a strategy for consideration or to accept the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I think it's a necessary correction and I'd like to point out that. On the other hand, once again, I would like to say that we are at the heart of a key decision, which is whether or not to open up the possibility of public finances being left unsettled. Of course, I understand that it is possible to read this way, but the purpose of this law, not only in Slovenia, but also everywhere else, when it has actually been introduced, is to achieve more in these key areas than if everything depends on public resources. It is not that we are going to spend less now, but that we will be able to achieve much more with our partners in these areas. Finally, there is another issue that still arises and that is that if it is a full government service or under the direct and exclusive responsibility of the Government, then prices are guaranteed or the highest efficiency. I would just like to warn you that also some non-profit organisation, including some foundation that cannot share profits by law, because it is so, is a non-profit organisation, can also exploit this legislation or any other legislation by presenting its own costs. The directors of a non-profit organisation can set such wages that allow for the exchange of Beemves every year, they can rent a variety of spaces through their respective or different partners and we are facing the same problems. Finally, nothing will save us from the decision of the individual contract and from the fair supervision and effective formulation of these investment projects [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u64	Mr. Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt, but we're talking about Article 22, not the whole law, if it's possible to concentrate the debate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u65	All right, I'll get it over with. I have only allowed myself to make these comments, Mr President, because I have also heard them from the Members and Members of Parliament, and if I have broken the rules, I apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u66	That's why I left you, because, as I said, the debate is again strictly impossible to narrow down to just one article and one amendment. But you have to be careful not to go too far. Mag. He's got a word for it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is a pity that the Minister is leaving us, but I will, of course, explain the logic of Article 20 in the case of the congregation. I'm asking the mayors, we're still in 20, gentlemen. I ask the Mayors' Members when it comes to a public-private partnership in the field of kindergartens, culture, social activities to which the Commissioner would be given this to regulate. The Commissioner for Finance or the Commissioner for Social Activities? We want it to be in the hands of decision-making because it knows the problem, the Commissioner for Social Activities. Therefore, we propose an amendment that, at the level of the government, takes this out of the hands of the Minister of Finance, who has now mixed up a whole bunch of concepts and started accusing a non-profit organization of changing Beemwei, we know who gave a tax gift at the level of one Beemvei group of Slovenes and Slovenes, has confused, and we want simply the following: not just a few hundred, I think there are up to 300 people employed in the Ministry of Finance, but some 1,000 civil servants, public servants in the departments who, together with the government service, have to work in providing, establishing conditions and protecting public interest. This cannot be merely the political competence of the Minister of Finance, but of the governments, of all the departments. At the level of the municipality, not only the Chief of Finance, but all the chiefs, especially in the case of infrastructure of the infrastructure manager, and in the case of social activities of the Commissioner for Social Activities. That's what this is about. That's our amendment. As far as article 21 is concerned, I am already announcing an amendment that will delete the word "may" in our amendment to article 21. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc, do you have a replica? Then wait for the second round. A replica, Mr. Rezman? The debate, then we wait. Mr Potts has a word, and then we will reopen the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We support this proposal of the Liberal Democracy, not in the belief that it is sufficient to solve the problem in the law, but as a proposal that is minimally possible, because the ruling coalition has rejected all other amendments that have wanted to be alerted to the merits of the problem in this law and have formally failed to be tabled. We were convinced in the Social Democrats Group today that, with the principle of support of the public-private partnership, it is not reasonable to introduce a public-private partnership in social activities, unless it is a matter of cooperation with non-profit organisations. As soon as it comes to organisations that aim to generate profits, it is certainly normal and clear that this profit will be created in a way that reduces the quality of services or increases the price, and all those who want to benefit from these services will also have to pay a higher price. And I really like what my colleague Žnidaršič said because he warned about the real problems. I do not like the fact that DeSUS did not support the amendment tabled in the second reading, and in this way we have proposed that public-private partnership in the field of social activities remain only when it is carried out by non-profit organisations, and we have also said how we understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Since there are some other interested parties, I am reopening the application for a debate on Article 20 and the LDS amendment. Thank you. The first one has the word, Mr Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Squeakl asked the mayor a test question. However, the problem is that a good answer is not possible when the question is wrong. The question is wrong because things get mixed up. We now have on the one hand the Government and on the other hand the ministers - we are talking about this now - so the political institutions themselves, and in the municipalities we have only one body. The mayor is the one who makes the decision, and everyone else is the administrators who make professional decisions for the mayor. And it depends on what the congregation is like. Some municipalities - probably the Municipality of Ljubljana is otherwise teamed, medium-sized or small municipalities have completely different teams again, so that sometimes they do not have the appropriate staff and there is no way to leave such decisions to an administrative worker, I don't know, with higher education. In short, the comparison is not appropriate. With regard to the problem of Social Democracy, which has proposed a public-private partnership with "non-profit" ambitions, we do not know the private capital that would be willing to go somewhere, to enter into some business, but in advance, I would know that it takes the risk that there is no profit.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you. And Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u73	I'll be just like my buddy in front of me. In view of the thinking of my colleague Squeakle, who's going to solve this. They will solve both social activities and finance both, within the municipal administration, the whole of them must cooperate, eventually prepare good material and be decided by the municipal council. That's it. Not one, not the other, but together, the team.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u74	Thank you. Mag. Squeakle's got a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u75	Mr. Janc, thank you very much. And that's exactly what we want. The Minister of Health also decides not only the Chief, but only the Minister of Finance. That is why we propose that all ministries of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are responsible for this area, and not just that the Government will take the final decision. Our point is very simple: both commanders must be equally involved. In the field of social activity, Mr Janc, Mr Representative of the Government and so on, he must be the bearer for social activities. And you don't have the Ministry of Finance, unless you're gonna double teams of people who are capable of anything meaningful about kindergartens. You don't have any. And it's also right that you don't have them. That is why this area must be resolved by activating the people of the department called the Ministry of Education, and the political decision must be prepared for the Government by the Minister, the best minister without a department to deal with it alone, under the direct intervention of the Government. Because, as Mr Rezman said, the mayor or Prime Minister of the Government finally decides, bears political responsibility and confirms this. And now you want by rejecting the amendment, if you do not accept it, to simply bear all the burden and responsibility only to the Minister of Finance. Look at him, he's not even ready to follow the debate here in the National Assembly. I therefore propose that we do the maximum possible in this law by adopting this amendment and the next two amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I note that no one else wants to discuss Article 20 and the current amendment, so I am closing the debate on this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 21 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. Please sign up if you'd like to discuss it. I give the word "magic." Gypsies.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u77	Our amendment proposes that the Public-Private Partnership Council be chaired by the President of the Government. It should include ministers, including independent experts, but this is crucial in substance, given the Government's belief that €23 billion of difficult projects will be financed approximately two-thirds through a public-private partnership. If this is what his State Secretary for Development believes if he does, if the Government has accepted it, then the principle should be laid down and at least one public-private partnership project should be implemented by the end of his term of office, in order to have some effect from this law. And that's our proposal. However, we propose and will also amend the amendment to delete the word "may" in the last paragraph.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I note that this correction is legally and formally correctly submitted, but it must however be documented in writing, as this must be done by the end of the debate on this Article. But you did it orally. I see that there are no more debaters, so I am also concluding the debate on this article. And I am putting to the debate the last article, paragraph 153, and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. I'm reopening the application. Thank you very much. The first word is Mrs. Pecanova. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would also like to support this amendment with a very clear explanation that some control over what is actually going to happen by investing in a private profit is being lifted here after the winding-up. I think that it is necessary to be rational and to think that, if we want to allow unlimited investment of private capital in public companies, it is, of course, an economic public service, that is, everything is nice and right. However, it is important to think about putting one hand at a time with restrictions on investment in public institutions in the field of social activities, which is of course a risk that we know we will not be able to control. All public institutions will be able to blend in one step at a time, year after year to private companies that will only work for profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u80	Thank you very much. And mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u81	We have only one question to lead the debate on these amendments. Does the government support this amendment and thereby want to prevent this law from being a law on the non-transparent privatisation of a thousand billion state assets? Please, if we can get that answer. However, in view of this response, we will, of course, hold a further debate. This is a key issue of the Law on Public-Private Partnership.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Then I will formally open the debate again. The minister's checking in. If anyone else wants to do it, press the button. Just a moment, Mr. Secretary, to finish the application. Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I just want to repeat what I already said in my introduction, otherwise we're late, and I already said what it was about. If we want the public-private partnership in Slovenia to develop in other areas, it is necessary to delete the provision of Article 80j, that is to say, we oppose what is proposed here to delete the third indent of Article 153. I just want to point out the following. There is talk of some non-transparency privatisation or the sale of property. This is simply not true because in the Public Finance Act, article 80, which goes from a, b, c, d, to j, actually exists, it is only deleted. All, if this is about the sale of property, if any property is to be sold, of course, there are still all the provisions of the Public Finance Act, as far as that is concerned, the sale of property, and I see no difference in this. I think that this discussion should also include this, the fact is that only Article 80th is proposed, and this is in order to actually create the possibility that this can happen. However, it will work on the basis of a very transparent system in which, on the basis of a strategy to be formulated and adopted by the government, the rules that we will also propose to the government and which the government will also have to adopt in full and on the basis of the fact that the law itself requires in any version of the public-private partnership to respect the Public Procurement Act in order to achieve this. It is not a law that can replace responsibility, as far as economy, efficiency and fairness are concerned. I am sure that every special treaty will have to solve these things, and there is no guarantee that we will have exactly what has been negative experiences elsewhere in the world. It is true that in some cases this has happened, which you are also reminding us of here today, but this is not necessarily necessary, things can be formulated in a different way, depending on each contract individually. So we object to the deletion of the third indent of Article 153. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u84	Thank you very much. And mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u85	It's my responsibility to say that the Minister of Finance doesn't know what he's saying. Article 80j of the Public Finance Act prohibits the privatisation of public economic institutions, public institutions and public enterprises, unless the Public Service Regulation Act allows in particular areas and if this transformation is in accordance with the national programme adopted by the National Assembly. Third. This Article also states that the provisions of this Act shall apply to the sale of the capital investment of the State or municipality referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3, i.e. in public institutions, public economic institutions and public undertakings, and that provision of the Public Finance Act shall be deleted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will never again enter the National Assembly or mayor into the municipal council when it decides on a public-private partnership either through the sale of a share or by the so-called establishment of a company. It is very easy to imagine, Mr. Minister, that in the Municipality of Koper Popovic and friends will establish d.o.o. and, following the decision of the mayor of Mr Popovic, privatised him through a public-private partnership. They do not even need to come to the congregation’s council, as it is called, to discuss what such a contract should look like. It is very easy to imagine that the Minister of Health will allow partners to enter the Trbovlje hospital and the sale of the State's stake in the Trbovlje hospital will not be subject to a decision on the sale of financial and real property, since the deletion of Article 80j of the Public Finance Act does not have to do so, this is a key difference. In Slovenia, we have managed to preserve state property in public institutions, public enterprises for the last 15 years of privatisation. Why did we keep it? Since these are monopolistic activities and because we want social activities to be provided at minimum prices, these restrictions are no longer available. The Law on Public Economic Services evaluates and allows for the very simple, non-transparent privatisation of thousands of billions of state assets without the legislative body at any time deciding whether or not 210 mayors should come to the municipal council at any time for consent or after, if you wish, advice on whether it really makes sense. That's what you do, Minister. Read the law. If not, read the explanations to the Public Finance Act. The third, fourth paragraph of Article 80j are very important provisions and if we have succeeded in Slovenia until this government's appearance this property retains this government opens the possibility of non-transparent "admission" of thousands of billions of assets in public institutions, public economic services. That's why I'm averaging, Mr. Secretary, you don't know what you just said!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u86	Thank you. Since there are no more declarations, I conclude the debate on this Article. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 10th item of the agenda or at the latest at 19 and 25 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. Agenda item - Second defence of the draft law on public procurement on water, energy, transport and postal services, EPA 1028-IV. We have believed or not for 15 minutes to discuss. The draft law has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, and I therefore invite the Minister for Additional Reasons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! In September you were presented with a proposal for a law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services. The proposal for this law is part of a package of three laws that will cover public procurement legislation in the Republic of Slovenia, namely the Public Procurement Act, which will be discussed at the following point, then the Public Procurement Act on Water, Energy, Transport and Postal Services and the Public-Private Partnership Act. The so-called classic public procurement of buildings, goods and services from procurement in sectors is separately regulated in the European legal system, followed by the proposed regulation in the Republic of Slovenia. The Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and Postal Services will, as already stated in the explanation for the adoption of the law, re-arrange the field of public procurement in sectors in the Republic of Slovenia. This law transposes into our legal order the content of the provisions of Directive 2004/17 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31.3.2004 on the coordination of procurement procedures in the water, energy, transport and postal fields. It should be noted that the procurement rules in sectors relating to certain content comply with the rules applicable to classical procurement. For example, we can talk about the same approach to ensuring competition, equal treatment of tenderers and respect for other fundamental principles, as well as the application of certain procedures and methods. In general, we can see that the rules that oblige contracting entities in these sectors are slightly different or simpler. This is evident from the fact that the thresholds for the publication of these contracts in the Official Journal of the European Union for goods and services are almost three times higher. The reasons for unifying public procurement rules in these sectors are, on the one hand, given the specific role of individual sectors, as well as the link between the State and these sectors. The characteristics of entities in these sectors are that they operate in relatively closed markets due to the existence of special and exclusive rights conferred on them by the State authorities in relation to supply, supply or provision of services concerned. In line with the proposal set out in the Directive, the new law is to regulate procurement in the field of postal services as these services open up the market. In such cases, the law, in accordance with the Directives, introduce a procedure to ensure that a particular activity is directly exposed to competition from one of the sectors and that the conditions to be excluded from the law are met. Dear Members and Members! In the process of adoption prior to second reading, the home committee considered the law and intervened qualitatively in the proposed legal text. This also applies to the Public Procurement Act, which will be dealt with under the following point. I am sure that with the amendments the amended law will also receive your support as part of the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u88	Thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body and I ask the Committee president, Mr Starman, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u89	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. At its 22nd meeting on 9.11.2006, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also held a second reading of the draft law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services. On the proposal for a law, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia held a general discussion at its 20th meeting on 29.9.2006, at the request of the Group of Members and Members with the first signed by Dr. Paul Gantar, and adopted, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 122 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a decision that the proposal is appropriate for further consideration. As usual, the drafters of the law and representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service with comments on the articles as set out in the report. We have also received a proposal from the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia to supplement and amend Article 23. The proposed law regulates the implementation of procurement for contracting entities operating in the infrastructure sectors, energy, water supply, transport and postal services sectors. By this law, Directive 2004/11 of the European Council of 31.3.2003 is almost fully transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee has adopted amendments to the articles not listed at the moment, but they are listed in the report, and has prepared an updated proposal for a law, which we propose to be endorsed by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Since the meeting held its first reading of the bill at its 20th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. And since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I am concluding the proposal and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we will vote on the law on Thursday, 23 November 2006, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Second defence of the Public Order Law (EPA 1029-IV). Total time for discussion 3 hours and 10 minutes. This bill was also submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I repeat my word to Minister Bajuk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! We have also sent you to adopt the proposal for a law on public procurement. As the Government has already stated in the introduction to justify the need for the adoption of this law, the area of public procurement is an extremely important area of public spending. This is a matter that is particularly carefully regulated in EU legislation and which is the subject of negotiations between the EU and the World Trade Organisation. Public procurement is an important generator of economic growth in Slovenia. This is confirmed by statistics showing that in 2005 public procurement amounted to 6.7% of GDP. It is therefore crucial that a system be set up in the field of public procurement to ensure the efficient and transparent use of public funds. As a member of the EU, the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to transpose Directive 2004/18 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the coordination of procedures for the award of public works, goods and services. That Directive uniformly obliges all Member States to apply the uniform rules governing the application of procedures, the creation of technical specifications, the grounds for determining tenderers. Therefore, the public procurement regime in the proposal for a law on these obligations is necessarily committed to strict compliance with the provisions of this Directive. In all the parts where this was possible, the proposer drafted the text in a simpler way, taking into account the Slovenian legal order. This is, in particular, in parts where the regulation leaves the Member State alone. In addition to this new arrangement, it is intended to establish procurement rules in such a way as to ensure that, in the absence of transparency, formality and uniformity in the implementation of public procurement, the achievement of business and, as far as possible, the economic use of public funds will also be ensured. This should also be achieved by ensuring respect for the fundamental principles specifically addressed by the law. Public procurement should therefore, in contrast to ordering between private law entities, where there was exclusive profit, be followed by two. Firstly, such procurement, which will be transparent, procedurally correct and transparent, open competition and provide legal protection for participants. Secondly, such procurement will ensure transparent and optimal use of public funds. Compared to the law currently in force, it repeals the proposal for a law on public procurement of unnecessary formalism in procurement procedures by allowing for the widest degree of competition and economy. The purpose of the law is to introduce as simple and transparent a procurement system as possible while ensuring compliance with the rules of the Treaty establishing the European Community and that Directive. The draft law shall, subject to a requirement for strict compliance with the provisions of the Directives, be transposed in an expertly sound and admissible manner. Under the European border values, the introduction of a simple system for publication via the public procurement portal helps to simplify public procurement. Notwithstanding the value of the contract, the tenderers will be given the opportunity to supplement the offer in respect of elements which do not affect the classification of the tenders received or merely formal errors in tenders which do not affect their classification, without reason for their determination. The draft law clearly sets the limits and procedures to be respected by contracting authorities for the execution of a contract. For reasons of simplification and greater flexibility, the law on the purchase of goods and services of up to EUR 10 000 and the construction of up to EUR 20 000 does not provide for a procedure. For the purchase of goods and services worth between EUR 10,000 and EUR 40 000 and for the construction of the value between EUR 20,000 and EUR 80 000, the contracting authority must carry out the bidding process. When the value of goods and services is between EUR 40 000 and EUR 137 000, or EUR 211 000, and where the value of construction ranges from EUR 80 000 to EUR 247 000, it is necessary to publish the contract on the public procurement portal or until it is established in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The contracting authority shall award the contract after the tendering procedure, after the previous publication or after the procedures laid down for contracts of higher value, the opening of tenders shall be compulsory. For the purchase of goods and services of value that exceed the European limit values of EUR 137 000 for goods and services and EUR 5 million for construction, the contracting authority shall choose either between the open procedure, the procedure with prior capacity-building, competitive dialogue or the procedure with negotiation without or after prior publication. The draft law specifies the conditions to be met in order to apply the individual procedure. The choice of procedure shall not be left to the contracting authority. A public contract whose value exceeds European limit values must be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and on the public procurement portal and the opening of tenders must be public. So defined procedures strike a balance between flexibility and transparency. Public contracts of lower value are burdened by long, complicated and expensive procedures. This ensures the efficiency, efficiency and cost-effectiveness of public spending. The Public Procurement Act contains news that will contribute to the improvement of public procurement by introducing electronic procurement by electronic auction, system-wide regulation of general public procurement, covering specific procurement methods, the production of technical specifications, setting out more clearly the conditions for participation and the evaluation criteria. New procurement procedures are also included in the proposal for the Public Procurement Act. In particular, it is important to highlight the clearer delimitation of entities which are contracting entities and carry out public procurement under the rules of "classic" and contracting entities that carry out public procurement under the rules of "infrastructure". The law also introduces so-called "in house" orders, this is called [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] , the development of technical specifications, the accessibility of orders to small and medium-sized enterprises. [[...]] The law also changes the arrangements in cases where tenderers make tenders with subcontractors. The practice so far has shown that the implementation of contracts concluded on the basis of public procurement has often been hampered by a lack of payment discipline between operators and subcontractors. The purpose of the provision is therefore to establish a legal basis for effective payment discipline in all cases of public procurement involving subcontractors. Dear Members and Members! In the process of adoption prior to second reading, the home committee considered the law and intervened qualitatively in the proposed legal text. In doing so, he has adopted a number of amendments with which the Government has agreed, and I am convinced that the proposed law will receive your support in the next legislative process and that the second hearing will be successfully concluded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Here, too, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as the parent working body, has considered the draft law and I invite Mr Starman, President, to present the report again.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u93	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. As can be seen from recent meetings, the Committee on Finance had considerable competence to deal with the proposed laws. At its 22nd meeting, on 9.11.2006, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the proposal for a public procurement law as a mother work. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service was forwarded to the Committee with comments on the series of articles. Representatives of the proposer and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly took part in the meeting. The Committee was also provided with proposals for amendments to the Committee. In addition, the Committee was informed of the comments of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Association for Construction of 6.11.2006, which contained proposals for amendments to Articles 4, 9, 12, 17, 21 and 24 of the Act, and the comments of the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia of 7.11.2006. Within the prescribed time limit, the following qualified candidates submitted a proposal: the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Retired Persons, the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group, the proposal by the MEP mag. Milan M. Cvikla, Member of Dr Pavel Gantar, tabled the amendments to Article 18 and once again forwarded the comments of the mag. Milan M. Squill. With regard to the proposal of the amendments to the Committee on Daily Material, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stated that they mainly cover the comments submitted to the opinion, but pointed out in her own consideration that it was correct that the annex to the Act also included a list of activities in the field of construction and a list of services, but that amendment to Article 2 was not adopted on the Committee. As has already been said, the Committee has adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups, but has not adopted amendments to the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and MEP Milan M. Cvikl. The draft is complemented by a bill containing adopted amendments and we propose to the National Assembly that the law, as proposed, should also be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u94	Thank you, too. Since the Assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 20th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups and we are moving on to the debate on the seven open articles and eight amendments tabled, which we will guide on the basis of the review you have at the tables of 15 and pardon 20.11. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening the application. Please, Article 6 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. Okay, I'll open it again. I'll be tolerant. I hope it works this time. Thank you very much. First of all, I invite Mr Mikolić to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. The LDS Member Club's proposal for this amendment to paragraph 2 - I now do not know if I can read, but it is literally covered by what you proposed in paragraph 2 of the proposed law. I'll check in later if I'm wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mag. Squeakle, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u97	Of course, that's true. We are particularly interested here in the opinion of the Government, whether the text of Article 6 on the principle of economy, efficient use and performance does also address the issue of broadcasting in full. In doing so, it is very important to stress the fact that, where a tender is awarded on a bundle, it is necessary to ensure an appropriate non-discriminatory treatment and to allow competition in public procurement by the tenderers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, I conclude the debate on Article 6 and the current amendment and put to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Then I'm opening a formal application. Please. Thank you. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u99	We have the same substantive question - the position of the Government towards this amendment, so that, according to the Government's position, we can lead the debate on our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u100	Thank you. And Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u101	Thank you. Well, since we do not have an explanation for the proposal for this amendment, in fact, it would be necessary to know clearly why the applicant wants to delete the article because this third paragraph, I think, refers to two matters. One is the designer and the contractor at the same time, which has already been quite questionable or excluded under the existing law and I also believe that the designer, the one who designs for an investment, cannot simultaneously run for work, given that he or she has the opportunity or has been given the opportunity to anticipate or design a part that gave him an exclusive opportunity to perform, and the other does not have this option. Now, if that's what you mean, then I object to this amendment at all, saying it must remain in law or in this article 9. However, the second part relates to the fact that, in the event of cooperation or if it were to say that only this contractor, who is also a designer, is only able to carry out this project and then has to give consent to the Ministry of Finance or Minister, then it is certainly a good one, which is also written, because I think that only in this case must someone decide whether or not this operator can do so on the basis of an appropriate offer, or now it is not said that this operator will be the cheapest one. Thus, somehow I also expect what the proposer will say on this proposal, and in this case, if possible, I will re-apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I'm reopening the application. The minister has already called. Thank you very much. First of all, I invite you to the word of Minister Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you very much. In this third paragraph of Article 9, we introduce the principle that the person who actually designed this should not participate in a public contract alone. It's a principle to divide it. However, there are possible examples that the designer has a specific technological or design solution to carry out the project, while others do not. In these cases, however, they would in fact give up a cheaper solution or a better quality solution if this were ruled out. However, the principle needs to be respected, so we have proposed - and this is the proposal - that within 8 days of receiving the projector's role, the Ministry of Finance will decide whether this is indeed in accordance with the law's direction, namely that the projector has a specific technological or design solution for the implementation of the project, which, due to the lower cost or the higher quality of the project, would represent their competitiveness. In this respect, we think it would be pointless to give up the possibility of actually doing something cheaper and in a better way.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u104	Thank you. Mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u105	I regret that the Government has decided to oppose this amendment simply because we understand that these restrictions are not in the European Union directives or, if I am precise, that provision is contrary to directives which do not know these restrictions, nor is foreign procurement legislation known. This is the first principled comment. Second point. I understand everything, but that the Minister of Finance is the one who will issue written consent to some designers, at least requires that the Minister of Finance knows certain specific technological or structural solutions for the implementation of the project or that he can give a credible judgment on this. Only a political verdict can be given by the Minister of Finance, Mr. Minister. That is why we believe that not only is it contrary to directives, but also a dictatorship by introducing the role of Minister of Finance, I think it is inappropriate. If there were an independent public procurement office or an independent state audit commission, it would be the one to judge if you wanted an engineering chamber - that, for example, more. However, the Minister of Finance, a political person, will decide whether the designer has a specific technological or structural solution for the implementation of the project, but reminds me little of the fact that the Minister of Finance in this Slovenia is indeed an alpha and an omega, not only because of what we said in the previous law, where he will decide all matters of public-private partnership, but in this particular case, it is a matter for the Minister of Finance to give political consent that someone has this solution. That is why, of course, I propose that the amendment be deleted. And I would like to hear what European directive this is. That is what I would like to do, since Articles 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 do not explain this. And we got these comments from the people in the profession.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you. I see no one else please, mag. Squeaking, procedurally, I suppose, because you can't have a replica on yourself. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u107	Vice-President, two options: I applied for a debate because no one wants to. However, I am making a procedural proposal: if the Government explains to us what Article of the Directive provides for this restriction. Why, in the case of this principle that you introduced into the law - you said, Mr Minister, we introduce the principle - and then we add an exception. Where did you see that? Which country in which directive? If you can quote this, of course we will withdraw the amendment or rephrase it in such a way as to be responsible, I do not know, the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia, or someone who is a credible and professional body, not the Ministry of Finance. Tell me what directive, in which law of other European countries you have seen this restriction, and then I propose the amendment that this is not the Ministry of Finance, of course, but the Engineering Chamber or one of the competent professional institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Since some Members, and also the Minister, have made a statement, I will reopen the application. The first one has the word Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The European Directives require transparency and competitiveness, inter alia. And we also wanted to do this on the basis of very rich and diverse experiences in our space, in the Republic of Slovenia, by introducing this principle. It has already happened many times, and it is known that there is a strong link between the design institutions or companies themselves. Therefore, this principle for ensuring competition and transparency. As far as why the Ministry of Finance is concerned, we have no desire to do so at this Ministry. The fact is that the Public Procurement Office is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, the whole operation, and would not personally have any problems if there were some different formulations of this amendment and that this authority would take over by another ministry. The principle is that we want to ensure this competition between the operators, because we are in our space, the connection between the designers and the contractors is obvious and also exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The Minister, the principle of transparency and transparency is, of course, a principle that we support, so of course we are for the competition of the tenderers. And the Government, which excludes that in the case of a public procurement involving design, the selected designer must not participate in the tender for the execution of the contract, etc. - simply restricts free competition first. Therefore, in addition to the principle of transparency and the principle of transparency, I say that you also have the principle of free competition in the Slovenian Constitution. To say that because the design organisations are supposed to be associated with executive organisations, it would mean that, for example, in the execution of the so-called paperwork for construction documentation, they would require that the designer should not do the so-called "PGI" or "PGI". So it's a construction project. We don't have that in, as it's called, the private sector. This is not in the procedure, thank God that the designer is also the one who gives the project to perform works and can also be the designer or the company in which this designer works, of course, even works if the price is the lowest and public procurement in the private sector. We limit competition: of course, if the executive company in which the project designer works is the cheapest, Mr. Minister, why wouldn't she get a job? Of course, I suppose it will be the cheapest, because it has the most information on how to prepare the project. Of course, you are now restricting competition. The judgment here, the opinion of the legislator, and as I understand it, the minister is already drawing out, let it be some other minister, the minister for, I don't know, space, the Engineering Chamber, but I really, Mr. Minister, I think your advisors have gone too far here, here the performers have gone too far. I don't know, let's get a sample. Let's imagine building a viaduct called Black Kal. It was designed by a Maribor company and we imagine that SCT or Primorje would take over this company because of its strategic interests, because we would, of course, like to design five more bridges with this company. Pursuant to the provisions of this Act, SCT and Primorje could not go to an invitation to tender for the implementation of part of the viaduct of the Black Kal. It is perfectly logical that, if they have taken over this company, Primorje and SCT can therefore be cheaper and, of course, they say, "with a provision" with your left hand you are building competition, and with your right hand you will get the case at higher prices, because the two important domestic bidders who took over the design company in line with the principles of free competition will be excluded from the invitation to tender. Therefore, it seems to me that in our view this legislator's intervention in free competition is too harsh and we therefore propose deleting this Article 3. And it is not, I tell you, it is not an explicit European directive, it is not a law on public procurement in the countries of the European Union which would prohibit it. I myself have participated for a number of years also, I would say, with institutions - let's see: the World Bank, the Inter-American Bank, even there we don't have this limit, there's only one limit, which is called, let's not go into detail now, that someone who prepares a framework that doesn't have clear solutions can't charge it again, would simply say it. But that's not what this is about. The project is complete. It has everything to do so that the contractor can start doing the work. And this is a comparative advantage for the contractor, but this comparative advantage must be reaped by the Government or the state budget because it will receive a cheaper service, a cheaper construction project. That is why I propose, I apologize, but I do not wish to "against" colleagues who are your advisers, I have found it difficult to convince myself when I was still working on these certain activities; especially because sometimes we have said this, because this is possible something that is in the European directives. But you really will not find this provision in the European directives, so I suggest you, Minister, support the amendment, because it is relatively simple.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor, and then we'll do it again. Minister, do you have a replica? Will you wait for another? We'll reopen the application. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you. See, this paragraph in Article 9 and paragraph 3 refers to a specific matter, after a discussion was made by Comrade Squeakle. In fact, there is no point in this third paragraph. The third paragraph shall speak in the event of a public procurement involving design. Not now to mix the order for the execution of parts of this contract, including design, this is a specific matter. I think that there is little in the practice of such things or of such public contracts; at least I know that there is no one on the part of the congregations. In fact, this means that you will call an order for the design and construction of the bridge. We need to separate here that this paragraph of Article 9 or this paragraph relates to the simultaneous design and execution of works, and in this case the designer should not be the contractor. That's what I said before, or what the minister backed up. However, given that the possibility that this project or this offer will be cheaper than others, which is logical on the other hand, the Minister will decide whether he will choose him as the most favourable contractor. Once again, I stress that this does not apply to public procurement; we have chosen the contractor only to perform works. I don't know, but this, look, this law clearly doesn't say that you can't choose the institution that designed this project as well, as my colleague Swickl mentioned earlier. I didn't see it coming. And this is probably the same in the European Directive or in the European Union, as the predecessor used to say. I therefore consider this Article to be well worded, and I do not agree that Article 9 or Article 9 or Article 9 third paragraph should be deleted. Once again, these are specific matters that are very little to be used in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, you've got a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u115	A replica of Mr. Mikolitch. See, Mr Mikolić, paragraph 9 speaks about the principles of equal treatment of tenderers and says how to do so. In short, competition is as open as possible and then makes the third paragraph an exception to the fact that the projector must not be an operator. It's just as wrong as you understand. This is not a design tender, but it is for those who receive a design invitation to tender, so it is prohibited that it is also an operator, unless the Minister of Finance specifically allows it. So I think that the substantive issue is related to the basic question of whether this specificity in defining the principles that emerged from the fact that we have in Slovenia, as the Government says, cases, as the Minister said, of abuses, will be recorded in this law. But, you know, first of all, these cases of abuse need to be demonstrated, proven, verified and asked if we have any failure to use designers in, I apologize for, related companies with designers in the implementation of this higher or lower service price. This is a fundamental question that we need to ask ourselves, and then it is all subordinated to whether the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Finance for, I don't know, I would say, the environment and space. I think it's a fundamental dilemma. We have proposed deleting the article because the Government's justification of Articles 6, 7, 8 and 9 does not provide this clearly enough. The government said that "the initial separation of design and the execution of public procurement is necessary because the designer is in a better position than the other bidders, if he can participate as a contractor. This constitutes a violation of the principle of competition and equal treatment of tenderers." Well, that's the wrong explanation. Wait a minute! The one who is the designer and the contractor will only have to adapt to it because it is better, it has a lower price. I will banalise: if someone has a comparative advantage over making a project, they must have another comparative advantage over having cheaper concrete, cheaper, I don't know, workers. But you know, we're talking about provisions that talk about principles. I think you've gone too far here. And the explanation along with the principle, I tell you, it falls to you in the Constitutional Court if you're going to do this I think, Minister, that it is really a political question whether it is, as it is said, a violation of the principle of competition or, in fact, a lower price. [[...]] I say it allows lower prices, so let's delete Article 3! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening applications for discussion. Mr. Minister Bajuk, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Maybe the explanation was really awkward, but I think it's important that we do. In the current law, paragraph 5, second paragraph, which has not yet led to any constitutional dispute, at least if I know not, says the following: "The contractor of the tender documents or parts thereof shall not act as a tenderer or subcontractor and shall not cooperate with the tenderer in the preparation of the tender." This is already in the current law. What did we do? Taking into account the fact that there is obviously a link between designers and contractors or they are part of one and the same company, we wanted to solve this problem in such a way that, in fact, this means that it is a specificity that brings a lower price or a higher quality at the same price so that it can then be allowed. Why? Just because we don't see a reason to give it up. The fact is that in the current law we have actually written all of this off and there was some non-life principle in our space that it was not possible. It is true, however, that the European directive on this matter does not speak because this may be some specificity of Slovenia. That's all it takes to ensure competitiveness - okay. How we wanted to achieve this competitiveness - by someone deciding whether or not to do it and if it actually means it. This is the core of this proposal. But just crossing means that we would actually achieve the opening of everything and have different problems when there's a connection that's not the most healthy. But we can all understand that there can be some design in a way that does not actually mean better quality or lower price for everyone. So there has been some compromise with our reality, but I think it solves the problem, because it provides the possibility that those who are able to actually participate, regardless of their connections, who are able to do it cheaper or better, but at the same time we eliminate the possibility that there is some connection that is not healthy and is not economical and is ultimately ineffective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Chairman. Article 9 of the principle of equality deals with tenderers. I think that what the Minister has just explained is something like thinking that this security guard is pretty good. From the experience of the existing law, which we have more or less bad -- at least I am very bad -- this fuse is useful. These connections are extremely large in this Slovenian space and it is right that in such cases someone has over this arm. And in this case, the finance ministry, if this happens, will, in my opinion, be a rare case, this is the specificity of this, but when it is, it is only right that someone decides to do so without arguing through the State Audit Commission and I do not know where and we are waiting, wasting time, money, nerves and bad will. In this case, this third paragraph of Article 9 is clearly well written, gives this possibility at the same time and may eventually be judged by the Ministry. I hope that this improvement in this article and in general, which is of great importance for public finances, will also be of great importance to the public finances, I believe - those who deal with it or who are doing well - and I only hope that this article 9 which we are talking about today will also help to improve the overall improvement in this area, because so far these many billions that are spinning around here are not the most economically, rationally and commercially used, unfortunately. And I'm sure this will be a better marriage. And I still have a little doubt that he's still a little too complicated, too demanding, maybe sometimes hard to understand. Unfortunately, the directive is as it is, we must respect it, but that Slovenian part, if possible, but I also have no idea how it would be possible to simplify matters more easily, it has always been my great desire to be more clear, more understandable and thus less likely to abuse and complain. This is happening to us on big projects and on the big money that is spinning in our area of public procurement. And that's why I won't support this amendment. I support this proposal, which is a day to the applicant and which gives some power, the possibility to decide who is also the main one responsible for this law on public procurement, which is the Ministry of Finance and the Minister himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u121	Thanks again for saying that. I would like to stress once again that this is a specificity. I don't know if it's perhaps the most clear written [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] . public procurement involving design. And I know that you and I will never come together. I would like to say that this dictatorship is not the same as in the case of public procurement only for the execution of works. This applies to both sets when you put out a call for design and execution. That's how I understand it. Because I know these cases are in practice. And in this case, the same designer is not supposed to be the contractor. Why? Because I'm sure the designer will make such a project documentation that he too will go to the mill so that he can learn as cheaply as possible. Logically, it follows that it will also offer an appropriate price. And since he will offer the right price, he will likely be competitive with others or should be chosen as the most favourable and should also be chosen. Or he will be chosen, the Ministry of Finance should decide on this, which I fully agree with, as the audit or those matters also fall under the Ministry of Finance. If this means that the project will also be completed correctly, then technology and everything else will fit, why not then it will be chosen. That's the exception. That's how I understand this 9th. And this Article 9 does not refer to general or public procurement of other services and construction works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u123	I'd like to say that to say that this is in the old marriage, there's no explanation. The old law was adopted under the old European directives. In the new European directives which entered into force on 31 January 2006, they are in fact directly applicable. If we did not have this law today, we should be working directly under the European directives. It's not like that. And that's why I say, of course, the government says there's some possibility of abuse and so on. You know, in explanation, in reasons why you're going to be one group, you didn't prove it. And the comments, the amendment we received from colleagues who do this daily and are even on the side of the contractors, on the side of the contracting authorities and on the side of the tenderers, in fact, the people involved in the practice. It's just that we're some kind of society that we're afraid of. At the minimum, we will propose an amendment to the amendment to replace the Ministry of Finance with the Ministry of Environment and Space. But, Mr Minister, let's put this into some transitional provision, not that it's a principle, and you have a minister of the environment there and a place to work with it. It seems to me that even from the point of view of the whole logic of the law, this does not fall within the principle that we will exclude one particular group. Transitional provisions for a year or two, to have practice and then to stop this restriction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. It's bad luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We are talking about equal treatment or unequal treatment of someone who also designed. I'll give you two, maybe typical cases that talk about one and the other, when the designer should also be the contractor or when the designer should not be the contractor. Let's say that some project, construction or more technical, is signed to the key. In this case, the contractor in which they have also designed has significantly better information on where the loops of this project are located, where costs may be higher or even lower, depending on the documentation available to all competitors for the implementation of such a project. In this case, in fact, such a company, which has also designed, could offer a more favourable offer in the case of a misleading project and would have an unjustified advantage. Now, how would the Minister of Finance find out, I don't know, or his experts, is another question. In such cases, of course, the question is also whether it would be easy to ban that designers can also compete with performance if these designers are connected to some operators. In this case, we can't do anything and you can't do anything, any way you write the law. This is happening in Slovenia more so that the bidders themselves agree on the price and allow themselves to be elected on their territory, their areas or whatever. The second example, in fact, where the designer should and would be good to be a contractor is: it is now almost 1 year from now, there was a call for a pilot toll system in the Republic of Slovenia, where the one who would develop this pilot project in full would give up all his knowledge and final product for a rich tender price - all the knowledge that is regulated in the programme, etc. - a new call for implementation only. In this case, in fact, given the concept of the invitation to tender again, one who has developed a prototype should also be able to install so many and so many of these devices for, say, automatic tolling. Or to the one who develops the product, to pay for the tender price all development up to the production itself and to the mass production itself. Very, very dubious cases and various cases. I believe that this evaluation mechanism should be, in view of the thinking that I have stated, in fact; but, of course, it is now a question of how can you professionally justify the case of allowing one designer to appear as a provider for implementation itself, because we have cases of implementation and design very different. It is questionable how to act in such a case. It is even more questionable that, in certain cases, we should allow the design and implementation, in terms of, say, the case of a toll system for a part of the system that is also required to be implemented, to be linked together; or that which develops the tendering documentation system, to provide a suitable set-up for built-in knowledge, built-in risks, etc. In any case, in Slovenia there will be a problem of playing one or the other solution, so that this fuse may be useful and it will probably be difficult to implement. In fact, it is a basic concept of the invitation to tender itself, whether you are signing the final product, including development or design. In some more difficult, such as software or computer projects, we have this case. However, in construction projects, if things are not working on the key or even if they are working on the key, it is likely that the links between the designers and individual offers cannot be prevented and then it is also questionable whether, given that the performance cannot be prevented, it is useful to prevent a designer as an contractor from participating in a key-to-key bid. When the case is the most closed and the most fixed and when most difficult, those who are not and do not have insight into the mystery of the project itself are difficult to give, say, the lowest competitive offer, is the lowest price, which is always the main criterion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in is on. Mr. Milan Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u127	Thank you, Chairman. When I listen to this debate, it seems to me that we are all sort of experts in an area that I am sure is relatively few in this Chamber. So for 26 years I myself have worked on the area we are talking about today in all the roles: either the director of the project company, or the director of the executive company, or the director of the engineering company, I stress, as Mrs Irgle says, because it is in fact the most aware of the responsibilities it bears in such a function and in the management of these companies. I have experienced this evaluation of various laws in all ways, including those that prevented design and execution at the same time, but we were in other times, we were in socialism, and later, when we went to capitalism, some of the rest of this previous period remained in us. Today, however, we are actually in a developed European space where all these forms are allowed. And if we interfere with such a law in the public sphere, we do not, in fact, allow for equivalence with those areas or those tasks that occur in the economic or market sphere. So we are now creating two categories of performers, one that must be organised to work in the public sector, one that must be organised to work in the private sector. And in this case, I think we are creating inequality on the market, and therefore I do not think that such a solution is good on economic and economic pay, and secondly, it is not good on professional pay. So, the specific objects that he also talked about - or you didn't understand - and Mr Mikolić, Mr Squeakl, it is precisely those that require many times the connection between design and performance. Believe me, such projects are quite extensive and many calls have also been made in this way. And these projects were more successful, where the design profession was also included in the company, but the investor had to be organised so well that he could prepare a call, allowing the company to offer design solutions, which are also feasible, affordable, and in such a case they received the most appropriate solution. I'm going to illustrate this, say, with the case of Destreni School, where our colleague Pukšič is the principal and the mayor at the same time. There is built-in specific equipment for air conditioning or for heating this facility, which is offered by one of the specific and good performers - designers in Slovenia. In this case, this designer can only offer his technology and cannot offer performance, but in this implementation he can be the strongest in the Slovenian field. We have thus closed the door for rational use of public funds and prevented part of the competition from such an operator. It will happen that some companies will in fact have to reorganise their organisation. It seems foolish to me that design and development departments will have to move to other companies in order to meet this criterion set out in paragraph 3 of this Article and that in the end it will be decided by someone who is, in my opinion, the least competent to decide. The Ministry of Finance definitely has no professional option in my opinion to decide whether someone is capable of carrying out something technologically that the Minister or the Ministry of Finance will determine. If you insist on this provision, give this option to an institution that has the ability to judge the technological process, that is, technological solutions, equipment, capacities or abilities of such a company, not that it will do so by the Ministry of Finance, but that is indeed an inanimate solution. It is not fatal for Slovenia not to think, but it seems to me that this is neglecting the profession, underestimating the profession, underestimating the market segment and subjugating the public interest, where the question is whether they are public at all. For this reason, if you do not accept the amendment proposed by the LDS, take into account at least this recommendation, whether the Engineering Chamber, which in this case gives an opinion on whether such a company and such a project is appropriate to carry out such an undertaking, or whether it does so after all, the Ministry of the Environment and the Space in which it is, I think, a lot more experts in this area than at the Ministry of Finance. I don't mind if it's one of these ministries if you insist on this, but the Ministry of Finance really doesn't, in my opinion, have any chance of making a quality decision on who can perform the work referred to in this paragraph of Article 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak, please. [[He's quitting.]] If no one else wants to discuss it, I am concluding the debate on the amendment to Article 9. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 14. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to two amendments to Article 17. Anyone want to discuss the first amendment? Check-in is on. Mr. Mag. Squeak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u129	The third paragraph of Article 17 speaks of what the exceptions to the Public Procurement Act are, namely, that they are also public contracts which reveal data with a certain degree of secrecy and so on. The case of Patria v. Krpan. It is clear that the Ministry of Defence is saying that it is trying to imitate the Public Procurement Act. The invitation was therefore extended to five so-called potential suppliers of the motorized vehicle for infantry support, as it is somehow said, and in the end there were two tenderers, one company from Raven, Koroška and one company from Trzin with a number of subcontractors. The government and the Ministry of Defence decided that the real company was a company from Trzin because it said that the number of points it received in comparison with the competing offers was higher; and one of the important points that outweighed why the company from Trzin, instead of the company from Raven, was in that the company from Trzin said, "We will re-employ 1,900 people", and the company from Raven said, "We already have employees of so many and so many thousands or hundreds of people, together with subcontractors and we will additionally employ 95 people." This key point of impact on the domestic economy outweighed the decision made by the Ministry of Defence to be a supplier of the company from Trzin. And the company from Raven in Koroška complained. However, it was first from the Ministry of Defence and then the State Audit Commission ruled that the company from Raven in Koroška did not have legal protection because the contract was carried out in accordance with the exemption provided for by the Public Procurement Act. And there is no legal protection for a company in Raven to conclude that the company in Trzin has initially hired as many people as the company in Raven will lose because of this or there is no legal protection for the other provisions of this business, including the fact that the company in Trzin is now happily late in the delivery of this Patria, and in the case of the company in Raven, we have already seen this vehicle a few days ago in Ljubljana. And our proposal is very simple. Let us also provide legal protection for these 170 billion public procurement transactions that we will carry out in Slovenia and are of a defensive nature. If anyone tells me that this is what we are discovering, I do not know what degree of secrecy we have when we know that every call, according to the presentation, must appear in accordance with the Ministry of Defence's explanations on the European Defence Agency's website. And, of course, it's clear there. It is the only reason why the Government still insists on this provision in that it does not want to provide legal protection for the area of secret procurement. However, the Minister of Finance is, of course, acting as a department minister in a situation where he cannot verify that the Ministry of Defence is actually carrying out public procurement as effectively as possible. Other abuses in this area are even worse. I asked Mr President of the Government a good month ago how Minister Dimitrij Rupel, together with his secretary-general, could decide that the purchase of business premises for the seat of the representative of the Republic of Slovenia in Brussels is a secret order and is passed by the Public Procurement Act. Tell me, buying an office like buying tanks, we said it wasn't a secret order. It must not be a secret order, so we propose deleting the third paragraph of Article 17. We also propose this because the practice is the most - but I will say now - I will not use the term developed parliamentary democracy, because the question of the development of parliamentary democracy is always a question of the relationship between position and opposition, but in that democracy that wants to maximize competition between tenderers and ensure legal protection that such provisions do not exist in the Public Procurement Act. However, they add such a provision, and in this case legal protection is the appeal body, I don't know, the parliamentary commission, the special state audit committee. You introduce this third paragraph, you propose to oppose the amendment, this was the debate on the working body, and so voted for 170 billion and for an unknown number of billions, the government will abuse this provision, there will be no legal protection in Slovenia. These aren't small numbers. In Slovenia, we reached 28% discount between the prices signed and signed in 2005 for public procurement, according to your data, the Ministry of Finance. 170 billion, where we would also guarantee competition, should, of course, provide this discount in the same way. Therefore, we propose this amendment that the company should have legal protection, that ministers should not abuse this provision and hide under secret orders what is not a secret order. However, if the matter has to be so secret that no one can know about it, although, as I said, you can read everything on the website of the European Defence Agency, then legal protection must be provided - to exclude all these contracts and public procurement laws, meaning to exclude them from legal protection. This is the content of the first amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The third indent of Article 17 effectively introduces the principle of the Directive itself, which states that public procurements which disclose data with a certain degree of secrecy must be accompanied by specific security measures in accordance with the laws and, where required, the protection of fundamental security interests in the Republic of Slovenia. This is a summary of the principle included in Article 10 of the Directive, Article 14. We have added a security guard to this, and the next one I will now read is not in the directive alone. And they are determined by the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and that the contracting authority must report to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by the end of February of the current year, which is why we added this safeguard to avoid exploitation. However, what the honourable Member has to say has to do with public procurement related to defence. This is, however, Article 15 which has a specific dictatorship, which is fully transposed by the Directive itself, and this is that the law applies to public contracts awarded by the defence contracting authority, taking into account the rules set out in Article 269. What does that mean? Article 269. of the Treaty of the European Community states that public contracts, so-called exceptions, as regards the principle of public procurement, are important only in those areas which are in fact related to defence alone, to secrecy. If I say domestically, if the Slovenian army has a contract for boots for soldiers and its people who make up this institution, then it must follow the Public Procurement Act - pika, it must respect that. We are now taking on the same principles as in the European Union. However, as regards additional security measures or areas where security measures are important, we have added that the Government must determine which ones are not to be abused and that this should be reported annually. I think we have balanced this very goal that the proponents are trying to achieve with their amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak, replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u133	Mr Minister, after the adoption of this law, will the WTO be able to enforce legal protection on the State Audit Commission? If the answer is yes, then I am withdrawing the amendment. If the answer is no, we keep the amendment. The key question is not at all, a key issue when you exclude it from this law either after the 15th or 17th articles, the State Audit Commission, there is no legal remedy for it. That's the problem, Mr. Secretary. I'll tell you that, Mr. Secretary. The Netherlands also writes what you say is public procurement and so on, and then says; they are laid down by a specific regulation of the Dutch Parliament and are reported to the special committee of the Dutch Parliament every three months and the appellate body is the Parliament of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. That's what this is about, Mr. Secretary. If you answer that WTO Ravne will have legal protection after the adoption of this law, no problem, you cannot answer that with yes, so we keep the amendment and believe that you are not solving the problem of abuse, illegal protection, especially if we agree that it is enough just to define it, why you allow the Minister of Foreign Affairs to buy offices as a secret order. You have to ask yourself that, Minister, you are, in the end, paying money to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in is on. I would warn you that we should really focus on this article. We don't even ask questions in the replica. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u135	Thank you for your word, Mr Vice President, Your Honor. So, Mr. Squeakl, if you're building your content and your thinking on this, as you said before in the chronic case, then it's all wrong. Then you're all wrong, and I don't believe you, and I'll tell you why. You were talking about that case of buying military vehicles, because it doesn't matter what it's called, and you said the company was the base, it wasn't true, the invitation was for the vehicle and it tested the vehicle in different segments, in different areas and it was evaluated. Then we just got to what company that gave it, and you were saying that the company was a basic company that offered something, a figgo, a wrong assumption. That is an essential difference, Mr. Squeakle, a fundamental difference. The vehicle was tested, and then we just got to who's offering it, because someone has to offer, and the vehicle can't just be offered and brought to the department of evaluation, and then it just comes in to deliver. One company has to stand back, the vehicle has been evaluated, and if you're building the whole theory on it now, then you're on the wrong assumption. However, since the Minister has told you that many articles are simply prescribed in the European Directive, then I suggest that you inform them in Brussels that they should amend the directive because you think otherwise. And if we adopt a European directive, then it is wrong, then the European directive is wrong and you communicate, and they will change the European directive, and then we will talk more easily, and perhaps even your amendment will then be adopted. The assumption that you were building on about the vehicle, however, is completely wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Hiccup, you signed up. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u137	Mr. Petan, I really don't understand you. I'm guessing you won't think the Ministry of Defense is going to conclude a contract for Patrio with Patrio's vehicle. No, the contract will be concluded with the tenderer and this tenderer is a company from Trzina. This provider provided information on how many people will be newly employed, because the vehicle does not employ people, the company employs people, that is the first. Secondly, I repeat the question to the Minister, not in the replica, but in the debate. Can you confirm that, according to the provisions of this Act, STO Ravne will be able to enforce legal protection, a complaint at the first stage of the Ministry of Defence and a second stage of the State Audit Commission as an independent, supreme, independent, appointed commission from the National Assembly to decide whether or not the Public Procurement Act has been violated? If the answer is yes, Mr. Secretary, I will withdraw the amendment back. However, since you cannot answer with yes, the amendment is more than necessary because it is necessary in this amendment, there is something else to be written in these articles in view of the practice that Mr Janez Janša, Minister of Defence and gentlemen, has started to introduce, which, of course, does not provide legal protection. Look what Mr Erjavec said at a meeting: "What are you asking me here because they have legal protection?" The net lie, the legal protection afforded to all other contracting entities, which resulted in 450 complaints in 2005 which, of course, affected this 28% reduction in prices, does not have a WTO Ravne. It was only necessary to verify that, of course, it was compared at the Ministry of the Defence of Apples and Pears.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u139	Thank you very much. In all cases where a particular purchase is marked in accordance with Article 15 of this Law, legal protection shall then exist within the framework of a judicial procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, you have a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr Squeakl, for the sake of such legal protection as you imagine, even for five years it is not possible to buy operating tables, but this is another matter. When you said that the Ministry of Defence had made a contract with the company, of course, it had a contract with the company, but for vehicles, because according to your logic the Ministry of Defence would not buy a vehicle, but would buy a marketing company would drive with the company on the ground, not with the vehicle. We don't mix apples, we don't mix pears, we're not that stupid. You know exactly what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u142	Can I help you? I'm opening an application for discussion. I would warn you that we are discussing the two amendments to this article and that the debate is on purchasing armored and operating tables. Mr. Master Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u143	Mr. Minister of Finance has responded negatively to my question. This WTO contracting authority has neither the Ministry of Defence nor the Ministry of Defence because it is not under this law, nor the State Audit Commission. However, as a final instance, unlike all other providers - and of course, I can tell you that the other tenderers have never sought legal protection in the courts, because the decision of the State Audit Commission is the final decision and also makes it possible to carry out business. The Ministry of Defence simply told WTO Ravne, gentlemen of the ruling coalition and Minister, we are not interested in anything, we have decided to sell this to the company from Trzin for so-called Finnish Patriye on the basis of the documentation we have, but we do not allow any institution responsible for this, and this is the State Audit Commission, to decide. And let's not forget, the State Audit Commission was ultimately the one who, on the basis of the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures, decided which complaint was accepted and which did not. And by deleting the third paragraph under Article 15 in force, we want to prevent ministers such as Mr Rupel and some from buying, by secret orders, something that is not secret and that there is legal protection, as is the case with all other annual 450 billion public procurements. This was one of the best moves at the time of entry into the European Union to have this protection, and in Slovenia there is competition between tenderers. It's not in this area, so we're getting more and more abuse. And therefore in the field of so-called public procurement there is a defence issue of competition enforcement or if you want English: "moving from single provider to multiple provider", a fundamental way. And you need to make that possible, Mr. Secretary. This is not possible in the law, because any company that applies will see that it does not have legal certainty. And when there is no legal certainty in the State Audit Commission, this is where corruption begins. This is a practice and this is also a negative experience in this area. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, at the invitation of Mr Tonet Anderlic, President of the Defence Committee, and Mr Davorin Terčon, we had a seminar in the National Assembly on 5 October 2006 in the small hall of the State Council. Look at the documents you got in your mailbox. From this seminar, the communication is very simple: in the field of public defence procurement, the same standards should be applied as in other areas. This exception should therefore be deleted from Article 17; however, Article 15 provides a basis for this to be strengthened. And if we delete this, we will also maintain legal protection for the WTO of Ravni. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I don't think there's anyone left to discuss. Yeah? The application is under way. Mr. Cyril Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! Well, since there has been a lot of talk about public procurement in the case of the military, as well as some others, I would like to say that on the Commission for Budgetary Control, where we had a special point on this subject, and also on the Committee on Finance, we have talked a lot about this, and that we have all, except for Mr. Squill, who was the only representative of the Liberal Democracy at the meeting, adopted an explanation by the Ministry of Defence that the contract was carried out in accordance with the applicable legislation, which was also the case. Legal protection was also explained very clearly. Legal protection for such purchases is not the same as for other public contracts, but legal protection in court, as Mr Minister has already said, so that legal protection does not exist, does not. As far as this is concerned, I would like to remind you that we have talked a lot in the past about a lot of public procurement, and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that they have had a lot against the fact that we have adopted that policy of amending the Law on the Revision of the Public Procurement Procedure, which has given the Government the opportunity to decide that the operating tables are to be purchased. Thank God we accepted that, otherwise today probably wouldn't have been commissioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u146	Thank you very much. As I note that no one wants to discuss the two amendments to Article 17, I am concluding the debate. And I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 29 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 116 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the meeting's timing today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 10th item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.25. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Period of the day - Second defense proposal of the Banking Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Assembly. I give the floor to a representative of the Government for further explanation. Here you go, please. The Secretary of State has the floor, Mr Mag. It's Lavrich's brand. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u147	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Proposal for a Banking Act [[ZBan-1]] the Government of the Republic of Slovenia confirmed at its 90th regular meeting in September 2006 and forwarded it to the National Assembly on a regular basis. Allow me to give you a brief introduction to this bill. The current operation of banks is fully regulated by the Banking Act, which was last completed and amended by a new law in 2004. In the summer of 2006, two new directives were adopted at EU level in the field of banking, which introduced new, much more detailed and more complex standards for bank security and prudential operations, so-called Basel II. Directive 2006/48/EC of 14 June 2006 on the entry into service and pursuit of the activities of credit institutions and Directive 2006/49/EC of 14 June 2006 on the capital adequacy of investment firms and credit institutions. The transfer of this regime to the law of the Republic of Slovenia requires more extensive changes in the key areas of banking regulation, which has also led to the drafting of a new Banking Act. The purpose of this Act is to lay down rules on the operation and control of banks by ensuring appropriate conditions for the efficient and safe operation of banks and thus the stability of the financial system. The stable functioning of the financial system is extremely important for the stability of the entire Slovenian financial system, as banks represent its most important part. Compared to the existing regulation, the new law brings significant innovations in two key areas, namely, risk management, as set out in the fourth chapter of the bill, and bank supervision, as regulated in the seventh chapter of this Act. The regulation in the other chapters remains the same as in the current Banking Act or is only editorially aligned and complemented by the amendments in Chapters 4 and 7 above, as well as by the amended legislation in certain other areas such as the Company Act. The draft law was coordinated with the Bank of Slovenia and with representatives of industry, namely the Association of Banks of Slovenia. I believe that banks and savings banks will adapt to the new legislative framework without any major problems and that the impact of the new legislation on the stability of the banking system will be favourable. We therefore propose that the proposed law be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u149	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. At its 22nd meeting, on 9.11.2006, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the draft Banking Act as a work force. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which checked the proposed law in accordance with the legislation and made comments to the articles listed in the report itself, would not repeat them. As usual, representatives of the proposer, namely the Ministry of Finance, as well as a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, participated in the meeting of the Committee. Proposals for amendments to the Committee on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Services and additional proposals for amendments to the Committee at the initiative of the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party, the Democratic Party of the Retired, were forwarded to the Committee on the initiative of the new 409.a and 409.b. of the legislative proposal. No amendments were submitted by qualified proposers to the proposal. The Committee has considered and adopted the amendments proposed and has incorporated them into the amended draft law in accordance with Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt the amended Law on Banking as well. In addition, he decided that since this law was to enter into force with effect from 1.1.2007, the Committee also adopted an additional decision to propose that the draft agenda for the 22nd meeting, which was not previously included, should also include the next item on the agenda - the draft Banking Act, the second consideration. Once again, the Committee proposes that that law be adopted in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u151	Mr Vice-President, Representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the key content of the Banking Act proposal, which we are considering today, is the implementation of European directives on the implementation of banking standards, also known as Basel II. Directive 2006/48/EC on the entry into service and pursuit of the activities of credit institutions and Directive 2006/49/EC on the capital adequacy of investment firms and credit institutions. The aim of Basel II is to set less difficult criteria for calculating capital adequacy, for lending risks and to set additional capital requirements for operational risks. The transfer of this regime to the law of the Republic of Slovenia requires extensive changes in the key areas of banking regulation, which has led the Government to opt for a new law. The purpose of the new law is to lay down rules on the operation and control of banks. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the objectives pursued by the new legislation. The new arrangement is expected to reduce capital adequacy requirements for all banks, notably for the treatment of loans to small and medium-sized enterprises and mortgage loans. The most noticeable effect on capital adequacy is expected to have this in medium-sized banks. However, the larger banking systems operating across borders allow for the use of more sophisticated models of market risk assessment developed by banks themselves and will have to be approved by a bank supervisor. The proposed changes are without prejudice to the guarantee scheme, but only the values of the current EUR 5.1 million to EUR 22 000 will change slightly. Compared to the existing regulation, the new law brings significant innovations in two key areas, namely risk management, as set out in the fourth chapter of the proposal, and supervision of banks, as regulated in the seventh chapter. The definition of risk management terms is necessary in order to comply with the definitions of these terms in the Directive. Risk management shall include the identification, measurement or evaluation, management and monitoring of risks, including reporting of risks to which the bank is or could be exposed in its operations. The Chapter lays down the basic rules on risk management and also defines the internal audit. The arrangements for cooperation between supervisory authorities and the exchange of information remain the same as in the current law. For the sake of better transparency, the rules on the conduct of the review of the operations contained in the Banking Act in the section on the procedure are transferred to the new control chapter. Thus, only pure procedural provisions remain in the section on the procedure. The provisions in the other chapters remain the same as those in the current Banking Act or are only editorially harmonised and supplemented by the amendments in Chapters 4 and 7 and amended legislation in certain other areas, such as the Company Act. In the preparation process, the bill was coordinated with the Bank of Slovenia and the Association of Banks of Slovenia, which gives it additional weight. That is why we will support the proposal of the Banking Act in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u153	Vice-President, distinguished representative of the government, colleague and colleague! We are adopting a proposal for a new Banking Act to harmonise this with European legislation, namely Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC, in the bank-related work. Given that these Directives seriously affect the applicable law in force in our country on banking, it is, in particular, reasonable and transparent to adopt a new law. As the representative of the applicant said on the working body, the proposal was prepared and coordinated with the Bank of Slovenia and with the representatives of the Association of Banks of Slovenia. In particular, he stressed the expectation that banks and savings banks would adapt to the new legislative framework without any major problems and that the impact of the new legislation on the stability of the banking system would certainly be favourable. It is clear from the consideration at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy that this is a law that has been relatively well prepared and in fact only means the harmonisation of our domestic legislation with European legislation. The law and amendments were adopted unanimously on the committee. The importance of the stability of the banking system for the country and its development need not be stressed or interpreted. There is no doubt that the law follows these objectives and that we support the bill in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We believe that the requirements or provisions of the law on the safe, prudent, transparent and efficient operation of the bank will achieve their purpose; effective supervision of the work of the banks, and a certain guarantee for applications and the protection of personal data are also necessary for a stable banking system. Therefore, the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u155	Your Honors are here! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia argues that, within the framework of the objectives, principles and main solutions of the bill, it is concerned or seeking two solutions. First: the stable functioning of the banking sector and defines it as extremely important for the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Slovenia and secondly: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia claims that only a stable financial system can fulfil the macroeconomic function that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has in its hands. So if we attach to another part that monetary policy is one of the aggregates or the main moments of government's so-called macroeconomic function, then it would make sense to ask about ownership, ownership of banks. Why am I stressing this matter? Because in the whole law, in all 414 articles, as far as the bill states, there is no mention of privatisation, nothing about the sale of banks in the Republic of Slovenia. Although the applicant, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under the introductory provisions or, rather, within the context of the assessment of the conditions and reasons for the adoption of the law, gives us statistics as to the number of banks in the Republic of Slovenia, the approximate shares of foreign branches and similar things. Allow me to mention only the first article that speaks of the subject of the law. This law lays down the conditions for the establishment, operation, supervision and termination of credit institutions established in the Republic of Slovenia. According to our assessment, if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is genuinely trying to pursue both objectives at the beginning of those goals, i.e. to realize that the functioning of the banking sector is extremely important for the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Slovenia, and secondly that only a stable financial system can be fulfilled in the form of a macroeconomic function, then the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should also define in this law a chapter on privatisation or sale of banks. We all know what happened in the years 2000 and last but not least this year as part of the sale of New Ljubljana Bank and the current New Loan Bank Maribor. Both banks, one already in a given situation, reformed without a legal basis and, of course, there is a paradox. On the one hand, we have a law in Parliament today that is supposed to deal comprehensively with the issue of the banking system, on the other hand, we have a moment in the given situation when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, through the Ordinance on the Sale of State Real and Financial Property, sells the bank and, of course, goes beyond the law. Now, however, we have a law in our hands that does not regulate this issue. According to the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, it is, of course, reasonable to ask about the relevance of the work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia when two completely different acts were proposed within 7 days, a single decree which should be an integral part of the Banking Act. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has the opportunity, or not least, to follow the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, to follow the hierarchy of legal acts and not least to follow the interests of citizens and citizens, then the National Assembly should show so much sovereignty today, and sovereignty is given to us by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia when it says that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is a separate branch of power, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should simply say that under this law we wish to have a chapter on the privatisation of banks. Allow me a sentence or two in a minute and 8 seconds as long as I have at my disposal. The Banking Act should contain the chapter I'm talking about. Why? The National Assembly has defined nothing on this issue as often as possible. Initially, in 1994, when it was decided in the Chamber of the National Assembly that banks should be reshape or reshape, sell or privatize, any topic you prefer. Not many times later, in the National Assembly and in the Government, there was a tendency to reshape the sale of banks on the basis of law. If we estimate, more than 10 years have passed on to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the previous one and all, there have been aspirations for a comprehensive Banking Act that will regulate things from A to Z. Today we meet with the Banking Act Proposal, which regulates in its content only every other letter of the alphabet. According to our assessment, there is only one more law that is written, because of the law, because of its content, and in particular with the lack of content, is misleading and allows legal voids to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The banking system as part of a more complex financial system is something that follows us everywhere and everywhere and we can't withdraw from it anywhere, either talking about institutions or it's about us personally. And it doesn't matter whether it's owned by one or another entity, whether these banks are all foreign or all domestic, how good they are and how well they manage money and all the other functions that banks have and what security they give us in doing so. This very large complexity of the banking system, the whole scope of which is so to speak, is reflected in a truly extensive law with more than 400 articles, as mentioned earlier. Some 40 or 50 amendments have been added to this debate so far. All of this gives some kind of guarantee that it was nevertheless well thought out, what kind of proposal to prepare and what to accept, especially because of the fact that the banking system should provide some financial support, so important for what we hope and also want in Slovenia: rapid economic development, increased economic growth and adequate financial monitoring. Those two are connected. We must remember that there have been several shocks in Slovenia as well as elsewhere in the world in this area. Of course, this makes attention as much as possible necessary. Of course, it is true that this is not a law on the privatisation of banks. And those of us who understood this as the law on the banking system don't miss it. It is right that the law defines status issues, functional issues, control issues, matters of public information, matters of information to the Bank of Slovenia and the EU institutions, as all of this is linked. In this way, we get proper control and we hope that this also means simultaneous and appropriate monitoring, which could be used to correct any fluctuations that might have occurred. It is logical that such a law, which is so extensive in scope, is, therefore, so much more gratifying that the professional institutions, in fact those most concerned, the Bank of Slovenia and the Association of Banks, have been in solidarity with the proposal and with the amendments made by the amendments. The DeSUS Group is therefore prepared to support this law because it is also in line with EU directives. That's what she's gonna do. Among other things, this is due to the fact that it follows what has been agreed and recorded in the coalition contract in relation to banking. It says that we will promote a competitive banking system in order to provide a system that will be safe to ensure that the financial risk for the country is also reduced in this banking area. And in the hope that this law will help, in this regulatory sense, the DeSUS Group supports this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mrs Polonca Dobrajc, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u159	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, Presidents, representatives of the Government! The stable functioning of the banking sector is extremely important for the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Slovenia. Only a stable financial system can fulfil its macroeconomic function. The purpose of the Banking Act is to lay down rules on the operation and supervision of banks that provide adequate conditions for the efficient and safe operation of banks and thus for the stability of the banking system. The most important principles of the Banking Act are: the principle of safe, prudent and transparent banking operations, the principle of efficient banking operations, the principle of investor confidence. The Banking Bill will thus continue to help banks always have adequate capital to meet their obligations in a timely manner and not exceed the risks set out in the Banking Act and thus affect the stability of the financial system. Moreover, one of the reasons for the adoption of the new law is also compliance with the new directives, namely Directive 2006/48 and Directive 2006/49/EC. Those Directives implement new significantly more detailed and complex standards of bank security and prudential business. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the draft Banking Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeakle, on behalf of the LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u161	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government! Slovenia has developed its banking system well over the last 15 years. When we properly restructured it through the state budget in the first half of the 1990s, we began to reap good results from the first half of the year in the second half of the 1990s. At the end of 2005, Slovenian banks set up an asset of over 6,000 900 billion tolars. Almost 7 billion tolars, which is in fact for 3.5 state budgets and which is the basis for economic growth. It is good that, on the basis of such successful results with the Banking Act, we are primarily following those efforts within the European Union to ensure that the money we are investing in Slovenian banks is managed well and in particular safely in these banks. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support the proposal of the Banking Act mainly because it is aware that this law is prepared on the basis of European directives, which we have also contributed to in the previous period and whose foundation, in fact, with the European Parliament for the implementation of these, is primarily the concern of the European System of Central Banks and, of course, individuals, over individual, supervisors of the banking system. In the Republic of Slovenia, the function of the central bank and the supervisor of the banking system is united in Banka Slovenije. This is one of the institutions that is undoubtedly most deserving of taking over the euro in 5 weeks. And this institution has cooperated with the preparation of banks for the introduction of the new principles of banking supervision also in the preparation of this law. This is why it is sufficient for the Liberal Democracy Club to accept the law, as it is now established in the second reading, and especially with the expectation of a time in Slovenia 35, at the head office of the Bank of Slovenia, that it will continue to take care under this law to ensure the safe, prudent and transparent operation of banks and that the principle of efficient banking operations will take account of the fact that bank savers expect, above all, that the money we have invested in the bank will also be returned. Since this requires careful and effective supervision by this law on the basis of directives, and in particular on the basis of the so-called new principles of Basel control, we will, of course, support the law in the second reading. Of course, in this law, the Government could explain in a little more detail the assessments of the financial consequences, especially in the sense that only a few efforts will be required in banks to provide additional capital, but of course we believe in the Slovenian banking system, we believe in the Slovenian independent central bank and the Slovenian independent bank supervisor, so we support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u162	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday 23 November 2006 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Period of the day -- that's a second defensively proposed bill on the engineering academy of Slovenia. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give my word to the government's representative. Dr. Dusan Lesjak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, The aim of the new regulation is to establish a legal regime in Slovenia that is comparable to similar European regulations, whose success is an argument for the establishment of such an academy in our own country. Given that the Engineering Academy already exists in Slovenia within the framework of the Slovenian Academy of Technology and Science of Satena, it would also be necessary to establish it on the basis of the law because of its mission to the Slovenian premises. The work area of the IAS will not interfere with the work area of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, but will be complementary and complementary. With the establishment of the IAS, Slovenia will receive an institution that will be qualified to prepare initiatives and evaluations of research, technological and innovation policy programmes and university and higher education programmes for engineers and technicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudolph Mohet, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u165	Mr. President-in-Office. Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, and gathered on the rostrum, a nice greeting! The initiative for the establishment of the Slovenian Academy of Engineering was developed in professional engineering circles, with the company's main initiator being the Slovenian Academy, a technical science society. The Engineering Academy of Slovenia is expected to play an important role in fostering the growth of technical culture and promoting the further technological and economic development of Slovenia. Engineering Academyes have been established in most European countries, and their successful operation should be an argument for the establishment of such an academy with us. In Slovenia, there is already an Engineering Academy of Slovenia within the framework of Satena, so it would be necessary to establish it on the basis of law because of its mission in the Slovenian space. With the establishment of this academy, Slovenia will receive a national institution that will be qualified to prepare initiatives and evaluate programmes and research, technological and innovation policy projects. The membership provisions provide that this academy shall have regular, extraordinary, written and honourable members. In the Engineering Academy of Slovenia, top experts can be selected on the basis of achievements in technical sciences, technological development and economics with proven research or technological development results. The funding for the operation of the Academy will be provided annually by the Republic of Slovenia from the State Budget on the basis of a financially evaluated annual programme to which the Government agrees. Resources for other forms of work can also be obtained from other sources from the Engineering Academy of Slovenia. According to the proposed law, the work area of the Engineering Academy of Slovenia will not interfere with the work area of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts, but will be complementary and complementary. In addition, the number of members of the SAZU is limited, while the number of members of the Slovenian Academy of Engineering will be significantly higher. The president of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts, Dr. Boštjan Žekš, who participated in the committee meeting, said that they could not reach a unified opinion in this institution on the need for the Slovenian Academy of Engineering. The engineering and technical part of the SAZU supported the proposal of the law mostly, and most of the other classes are against the proposal of the law on the grounds that engineering academyes in the world are largely social. Since two of our four neighbouring countries do not have an engineering academy and two act as a society, and since this is likely to be the beginning of the establishment of regional state academyes, we can expect requirements for the establishment of new academyes. Members and members of the Committee supported in principle the establishment of the Engineering Academy of Slovenia. The issue of the relationship between the SAZU and the IAS remains open, which should be defined in the law both as regards their cooperation and mission and membership in both institutions. Other academics should also be identified prior to the possible establishment of other colleges, if there was any interest in other scientific knowledge. In view of the envisaged resources to be provided by the State for the operation of the Slovenian Academy of Engineering, the question is whether these resources will be sufficient for all the tasks defined in the law if we want the Academy to be successful in its areas of operation. In the second reading, the Committee did not receive any amendments to the drafters, so it drafted its amendments to almost every article to clarify certain matters, to clarify them, to make them clearer and to some extent took them into account the legislative and legal services' comments. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee, I ask that you support the Act establishing the Engineering Academy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Kramberger, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u167	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on the Engineering Academy of Slovenia, the second considers that in the introduction, let me say that our parliamentary group will support it. When we consider the proposal for a law on the Engineering Academy of Slovenia, we are asked about the relationship between sociology and nature, as two areas which are different in a variety of ways. The views of one and the other scientific branches differ widely traditionally on many issues. It is, of course, necessary to point out that, now in Slovenia, and probably elsewhere in the world, sociology is at least in seeming predominance. Not only in terms of the reputation of individual professions, but in particular in terms of the management of key positions both in politics and in the economy. In Slovenia, there is no doubt that social science has been given an advantage over science in recent years. If we look at higher education programs, we see how many students have social colleges and how many have natural schools. Of course, this fact is strongly linked to the issue of costs which are significantly higher in natural science programmes, in particular due to the necessity of laboratory and other technical equipment than in social sciences. Also, studies in the field of natural science simply cannot be massed. On the one hand, we have the situation that I have just described, and on the other hand, we are all aware of the importance of technical knowledge and engineering as a key factor in the development of modern technologies. And the development of modern technologies or highly skilled individuals is a key guarantee for the faster development of Slovenia in the future. As we look at which Slovenian companies have been most successful recently, which have more and more employees and are expanding intensively beyond the borders of Slovenia and the EU. These are companies which are innovative in their field and which produce technologically completed products. Undoubtedly, Slovenia must do something in the direction of faster development of technical knowledge and in particular to promote their integration into economic development. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group from this point of view, we support the establishment of the Engineering Academy of Slovenia and we see in it an additional incentive for the development of technical knowledge. The tasks of the Engineering Academy are clearly defined in the law. Among them, I would like to highlight here in particular the promotion of the creation of high-tech skills and the proposed measures to increase the innovation of Slovenian companies. However, we must say that achieving these objectives with financial modest support for the operation of the Engineering Academy will be difficult to achieve. It will therefore be necessary to give serious consideration to the level of resources that will enable the academy to work successfully in the long term. With regard to the opinion of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, which has concerns about the creation of certain ones, I would like to say that this is in some ways perfectly logical. In any event, the establishment of the Engineering Academy means a certain reduction in the power of the SAZU and, on the other hand, it also means a certain competition, not directly, since both will be complemented in substance. Indirectly, the good work of one will undoubtedly require a greater involvement of another academy, and this is, in our view, good and necessary. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u169	Thank you very much. That's a good-bye. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposal for a law on the Engineering Academy of Slovenia. The fact is that science must have its own, I would say, a group in which it will have an equal debate within itself. However, we believe that in this Engineering Chamber or Academy it is necessary to have people from all segments, representatives from all segments, both from the education sector and from industry and from the research sector. In the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, which is actually a political organisation that does not correspond to today's situation of a democratic society, because it is mainly for those who have reached a certain age on the political line and a certain position to be given a seat in the SAZU for the prize, we think that the Engineering Academy is something completely different. The status of the Engineering Academy will be regulated by the law, which is also right. After all, the financial resources that the Academy of Engineering will receive are in fact minimal, the 20, 21 million are not such a big cost, and even if we compare it with the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, whose members in certain segments act anti-Slovenian, such as Mr. Toporišič, who has worked very hard to destroy Slovenian language and to win the award, he has been established in the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts. Otherwise, we also have other academyes in Slovenia, which act as societies. After all, Mr Jonas Žnidaršič has the Academy for Billiards. The Slovenian Philatelic Academy was also established, and I must say that this Slovenian Philatelic Academy is working really well on the principle of real academics, because a new academic can enter this association only when one of the older academics dies, not like in the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, where our SAZU has a substantial number of members, such as the French Academy of Science and Arts. This proves once again that this is a political form and a political reward for a remnant of the former era, otherwise things would not be so arranged. In the Slovenian National Party, we absolutely support this idea and we think it is good. Even if another academy is set up, some other segment, especially in the field of science, we think this is very good. Above all, people who are actually going to sit in the academy will certainly not be involved in this academy, taking a nap, and they will be drenched in saliva and similar things. Thank you very much for such academies. At the same time, the Academy must be a vehicle for further development, where ideas are generated that will lead to new research, to new inventions, to new innovations, this is not yet in Slovenia. We have some academics at the SAZU who could almost be called that gerontological society and nothing more. Once they sit in that seat, they're untouchable, and with their avreolo, the academics share their rights, and I don't know what else is left and right. If we looked at their work and cut it down, we'd be on the fucking grid a little bit. That is why I feel, once again, that it is right to establish such an engineering academy. Engineers are the ones that generate development. It is not generated by certain writings and, above all, by humanistic workers, who are most important to them to protect certain interests of those marginal groups, but we must be academics who are up to the development of their own country, their own nation and to their prosperity. So once again, we'll be happy to support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u171	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Members of the DeSUS will support the proposed Act on the Engineering Academy of Slovenia, because we are confident that greater emphasis should be placed on technical intelligence and we hope that the law will achieve its expected objectives. In doing so, the DeSUS Group does not wish to reduce the importance of humanities and social skills, but it is only right to stress this. The Slovenian Academy of Technology and Science Society was founded in 1994 by a company of researchers, professors and researchers in technical and natural sciences, where they develop top science and development in academic and economic environments. A year later, the Slovenian Academy of Engineering was established to create a platform for information policy on the development perspectives of manufacturing industries, scientific and technological research and quality engineering studies in Slovenia. This academy is and is still operating within society, and the proposal for amendments is aimed at establishing a legal framework for the academy, which will be comparable to other European countries. Its main purpose is to promote the technological and economic development of our country. Slovenia must establish itself as an economically developed country and its task is to lay the legal foundations for strengthening economic development and for strengthening the direct dialogue between the engineering and scientific spheres. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that regardless of whether the Engineering Academy operates as a society or as a country, it is a more important objective of action, and this must be aimed at promoting engineering and the development of the economy for the growth of the welfare of Slovenian society. Because in our parliamentary group we expect the operation of the Engineering Academy on the basis of the proposed provisions of the law to be more transparent and open to the public, and that the Academy will contribute to the promotion of applied research and technological development in our country, we will also be pleased to support the proposal on the Engineering Academy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u173	Your Honor, Mr Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party Group will support the Proposal for a Law on the Engineering Academy of Slovenia. We are pleased that the initiative to establish the Slovenian Academy of Engineering has been developed in professional engineering circles and, above all, that Satena is the main initiator of the Engineering Academy of Slovenia, which was already established in 1995. The draft law provides in the transitional provisions that, thus, on the date of the constitutional meeting of the Assembly of the Engineering Academy of Slovenia established by this Act, the operation of the Engineering Academy of Slovenia established by Satena shall cease. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the Engineering Academy of Slovenia will help to promote technological culture growth and promote the technological and economic development of Slovenia in accordance with the national programmes adopted, in a broader sense also in the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy. The development of Slovenia is highly dependent on the development of new technologies and products. The establishment of the Slovenian Academy of Engineering will contribute to greater respect for and respect for technical and natural intelligence in Slovenia, whose city and importance is highly underestimated in Slovenian society, which has a negative impact on the technological development of the country. An engineer who considers that his role in society is irrelevant does not, as a rule, develop a new product. The result of this situation is also a poorer entry into the university's natural and technical direction than in the social sector, which also has a negative impact on the future development of Slovenia. For a while there was even a surprise in society, if the finer, the golden graduate, had decided for the technical-natural colleges. We believe that when Slovenia does not have an independent Engineering Academy and therefore is not a member of either of the two international networks of the Engineering Academy, it is losing the possibility of co-forming European and global space in the field of technological development. The participation of Slovenia in associations would also broaden the exchange of experience from foreign experts, foster sustainable development and general technical culture in Slovenia. The regulation of the Independent Engineering Academy, as proposed by the Proposal for a Law on the Engineering Academy of Slovenia, which we are considering today in the National Assembly, is common in large countries. The establishment of independent engineering academies by law is known, inter alia, in the United Kingdom, Belgium, the Netherlands, Spain, Canada and the United States of America. It should be emphasized that the work area of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts will not interfere with the work area of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts, nor in the work area of the Slovenian Chamber of Engineering, but will be complementary to their functions and work. It is therefore right to set up the Engineering Academy of Slovenia to encourage the development of Slovenia, so we will be happy to support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor, on behalf of the LDS Club. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u175	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! In the LDS Club, we will support the Proposal for a Law establishing the Engineering Academy of Slovenia, which means the legal arrangements of the Academy, which was established in 1995 by a group of Slovenian scientists in the field of technical and natural sciences and respected engineers, members of the Society of Satena. With the express support of the bill, we support the intention of the proposal to further strengthen the role and importance of content in the field of scientific and technological research, to successfully develop and upgrade development perspectives in the manufacturing industry, to create conditions for the most successful innovation and transfer of scientific achievements to the economy and to ensure the highest possible quality engineering education in the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, we also allow the academy to be established in an international space. The bill foresees that the Academy is joined by members from technical sciences, public research spheres, economies and technological development, but given the current membership, there is considerable imbalance in the number of members from specific areas. We therefore expect to see more emphasis in the future on engineering personnel that have proved to be outstanding in industry, not only on those who have proven to be working in the field of education in colleges. We therefore expect that the situation in the Republic of Slovenia in the field of innovation and patents will significantly improve with the support of the law, and that we will also get closer to 8th place in this area, as we do on the world scale by the number of published scientific publications. In this way, the economy will certainly show greater interest in supporting the operation of the Engineering Academy. On the occasion of the trip to the Academy for the most successful work, however, we would like to draw attention to the content that we have already highlighted at the LDS House of Members at the meeting of the home working body. We believe that when institutions such as the Engineering Academy are established, answers to open questions must be offered, otherwise we create the impression that in Slovenia we create the academy very little at home. One of the issues that we believe should be resolved before the law comes into Parliament is the ratio of the Engineering Academy to other academics and to the Academy to which we have a certain relationship, which is to the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art. Most likely, we are all united in the belief that a special high level of relation to the SAZU must be maintained and we intend to maintain it fully and all that means to us, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, we are aware of the fact that we are also deciding today that there will be other academyes in the Slovenian space in the future. Therefore, it would be wise and urgent for the applicant to clarify the relationship between the Engineering Academy and the Academy of Science and Art, particularly due to the shared opinion of the members of the SAZU on the need for an engineering academy. Therefore, we expect from the proposaler, when we support the Engineering Academy, that you, as a proponent and especially as a minister, in the manner established by the Engineering Academy, will also support by law the establishment of other areas of the academy if they express interest in this. That would give us a relatively clean picture. First, a clearly defined relationship to the SAZU and if the interest to such an extent as is now the case in the field of the Engineering Academy, then, in the future, the possibility of establishing other regional academyes. In view of the tasks of the Engineering Academy, it is also necessary to clarify the relationship to the Science and Technology Council and to the Higher Education Council of the Republic of Slovenia in order to avoid duplication in the performance of certain tasks. The insufficiently thought-out text has already been partially corrected by the amendment of the committee on the home working body. The amendment of the coalition, which is on our bench this time, is still trying to improve the text. At the LDS House of Members, we will support the amendment of coalition parties with the intention of giving the applicant an opportunity to further reflect on how to complement and upgrade and further reflect on the content of Article 3. That the proposal for solutions and the consequences of the law have not been carefully reconsidered, the answers also show that it will only take time to provide certain answers. Thus, there was no clear answer to the question why relatively modest financial support is devoted to the operation of the Engineering Academy, which is only 2% of the value of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, which means about 20 million budget resources per year. Of course, this raises a reasonable question as to whether the Engineering Academy will be able to meet the expectation and mission expected of it by such modest financial means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pecan has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u177	Good day and thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. The Group of Social Democrats, I can say, is pleased to adopt the Proposal for a Law on the Engineering Academy of Slovenia primarily because this law confirms the long-standing efforts of the Slovenian Academy of Technology and Science society, which established their academy, which had only the status of society in society, 11 years ago. We believe that the need to establish the Engineering Academy in Slovenia has, in fact, grown in the fact that the study of technical, technological and natural sciences has always been a poorer entry, that the interest in technical professions is extremely small, that in the industry there is an increasing lack of engineering in the field of technical science and that, in fact, the Engineering Academy of Slovenia may also encourage the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology to change its attitude towards financing the construction of buildings dedicated to natural schools and all accompanying facilities belonging to these faculties. The fact is that it is desirable that, in particular in Article 3 of this Law, the Engineering Academy is invited or, I would say, its mission is called upon to be fully autonomous and free in expressing professional and ethical assessments and to assess the effectiveness of state measures in the fields of education, economic, technological and industrial policy. I believe that this law offers the possibility, however, that in the field of technical and natural science, we will be given an independent, autonomous entity that is not afraid that the policy of the Government, in particular the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, will prevent the development of studies and research in the field of technical science and science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag has a word. Capuder on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament. Technical sciences and engineering are a key factor in the development of modern technologies, and technical culture is an essential segment of the culture of all developed nations and countries. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia itself is aware of this, in particular, of the various associations in the field of technology and science. The promotion of technology and engineering should be a constant of our daily policy. To this end, a group of Slovenian scientists in the field of technical and scientific sciences and respected engineers, members of Satan society, established the Engineering Academy in 1995 within this society. Specific criteria had to be met by candidates for election to the Engineering Academy. With the proposed law, the Engineering Academy of Slovenia, which now operates within the society, will give the state a broader meaning, and in particular we will stress the importance of technical, technological sciences for the development of our society. The fact is that science or technology, engineering has been under-emphasized and under-promotion over the past few decades, could even be said to have been neglected. We also did something at a greater promotion of science in technical and natural science last year, when we introduced special state recognitions, both Zois' prizes and recognitions, the recognition of the ambassador of science and Puhov's recognition. The financial resources for the operation of the Slovenian Academy of Engineering will be provided by the Republic of Slovenia in its budget and the resources will also be available from other sources on the basis of calls for proposals, donations, elections, gifts and other legal bases. Discussions raised the question of the relationship between the Engineering Academy and the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art. The answer is quite simple because the SAZU Act makes it very clear that the SAZU is the highest national scientific and artistic institution. Meanwhile, the Engineering Academy of Slovenia is considered to be a national institution or institution that brings together loved members from technical sciences, public research spheres, economic and technological development. The work area of the Slovenian Academy of Engineering will not interfere with the field of work, the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, but will be complementary. Fear of the devaluation of academics was also expressed on the home committee. If the Slovenian Academy of Engineering were so undervalued and led to the devaluation of academics, then I do not believe that there would already be a few members of SAZU, even though the engineering academy now acts as a society. The class or technical part of the SAZU also supported the proposal for a law and the idea of establishing an engineering academy in the majority, in particular with arguments on the importance of engineering, with information that such a academy exists elsewhere in the world and with the expectation that the engineering academy will contribute to our economic development. Engineering Academy has many countries in the European Union, such as Great Britain, Sweden, Denmark, Spain and so on, and many other countries around the world and in Europe. The oldest in the academy is the Swedish Royal Academy of Engineering, founded in 1929 and has about 700 members. The Danish Academy of Technical Sciences was established in 1937 and has 619 members. However, the Swiss Engineering Academy was founded in 1981 and is composed of 287 members. In New Slovenia we are aware of the importance of technical knowledge for the social and economic development of our country. We are confident that the Engineering Academy of Slovenia will play an important role in fostering the growth of technical culture and promoting the further technological and economic development of Slovenia. This has also proved to be true elsewhere in the world. In Novi Slovenija we will support the proposal for an engineering academy law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u180	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 20.11.2006. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS, DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? Check-in is on. Mr. Rudolf Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u181	President, thank you so much for your word. We will certainly support the amendment to Article 3, since this Article clears in this direction some of the tasks which, in my humble opinion, should be carried out by agencies or by various councils established by the Research Activities Act. So there's no dilemma here. The dilemma in this Article is that the tasks of the Slovenian Academy of Engineering, as defined in these indents, are far above what financial resources are provided for the operation of the Slovenian Academy of Engineering. If I could just give you a sample, I could say the following. The engineering academy of Slovenia, as we have heard, will receive annual SIT 21 million for its operation. The SAZU will receive SIT 861 million for its operations, of which SIT 861 million will receive SIT 385 million for membership awards. That means the president gets 150% of the average gross salary in the last three months, regular professors 100% of that and extraordinary professors 60% of that. And for this reason, I see in this article, which, by its abundance, does not fall behind a similar article in the SAZU Act, that the Engineering Academy of Slovenia will be handicapped at the beginning. Both the SAZU and the IAS, that is, the state is establishing, but the watts of how it divides the money are based on it, and the proposer has tailored it in his own way; there are probably no other sources for it. And there's something else. With the tasks of the Engineering Academy of Slovenia, this is a huge amount of hours of work per year if they really want to carry out these tasks. And as to the comparability of SAZU academics and Slovenian Academy of Engineering, the question of status is again raised. The tasks are similar in terms of abundance in both laws, and we know from the status that the SAZU President always sits first and foremost, that members have certain ratings. Whether this will be the case with the Engineering Academy of Slovenia or not is the question. In fact, with this law, which is needed, we are opening Pandora's box so that other companies will then try to obtain the status of a national institution, thus financing as well as certain privileges arising from the law. Personally, I think it is good, given the comparability with other countries, and given what is happening to our technical and engineering staff in Slovenia, that we have established such an institution by means of this law, we have given it these tasks, and I think it will prove good in a while. Otherwise, we've seen no one opposes the law. All we can do is say to the Government, which, by law, will confirm the statute, which will further regulate these things, "hik rodus hik salta."
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u182	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u183	Thank you very much. In the coalition's parliamentary groups, we have tabled that amendment mainly because it has already been shown on the committee itself that some of the tasks described in Article 3 may be perhaps a little too extensive and extensive. Although I think that all those who will be members of this Engineering Academy would be able to carry out these tasks, but given the size of the financial resources and the fact that they will work for the most part, I will not say volunteering, but in addition to our regular jobs, we have merely made these well-meaning remarks, including those of the opposition colleagues, taken into account and proposed to receive in the second reading on the plenary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The application for discussion shall be open. Mr. Ljubo Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u185	Thank you for your word. Of course, I volunteered for this amendment for a simple reason, because this amendment is somehow trying to follow what you have just said, but it does it in an unconvincing way for a simple reason, because it is very difficult to think in your way. If we look at Article 1, which says that membership is included in the Engineering Academy, which combines the research sphere, the economic sphere and the people who cover technological development. And we in Article 3, where we should, in fact, occupy ourselves within the framework of the tasks to be performed by the Engineering Academy, which is what we on average delete in some of the elements, but we are not consistent in doing so. I will draw attention to this, for example, the fourth indent speaks of the fact that the Engineering Academy is actively involved in the design of research, technology and innovation policy. And then we throw the technology out. You can tell me how we can think about engineering professions if we actually exclude technology from the circle of their thinking, but we are not consistent, because we do not do this on all these lines, because in the 12th indent, we leave technological content inside, because the 12th indent says: "The issue of permanent and temporary publications in the field of technical knowledge, technology and technological development." So for the publications yes, that she will actively participate in the design of technological policies, we throw her out. So this haircuts and it's not consistent with each other's content. We make it possible to publish from the chapters of technological development, but we do not allow the Engineering Academy to actually act as an actor in technological development policies. That's what he's worried And that is what we have pointed out to the applicant already on the working body, that of course it has not changed its mind in a comprehensive way, given the relationship of individual institutions responsible for individual areas in charge of certain areas under the law and the relationship between them. It will also be very difficult to follow the discussions of representatives, members of the Engineering Academy, at this point in time, which speak of the need to harmonise the relationship between the individual segments of these three areas. Yes, how, if we allow some membership within the Engineering Academy, that it will be able to participate significantly actively in key decisions in the Republic of Slovenia, a certain segment that will also be members of the Engineering Academy of Slovenia, we will say no, and in this area the Engineering Academy is not competent. She's not competent for a simple reason, because we've been recklessly writing down these paragraphs. In principle, I could agree with certain views, but of course I cannot agree with any of them, but to say that already the extent of those who are in here is the extent of the work for those who are going to be in this academy too large, and that is why we are putting something out of our hands, that is, from the tasks of the Engineering Academy out. And when we do that, I ask myself whether the basic objective will be achieved, that means that this engineering academy will be composed of elected members, i.e. prominent members who have excellent achievements in particular areas, and that with their outstanding achievements they can be the motivation to create certain policies and that they will be the model and model for success. And if we speak as a result, then we want to take their powers away from them because we have given them so little resources, it seems to me a very bad journey for the operation of the Engineering Academy. I think that the approach should be precisely reversed; to look at what the Engineering Academy should do and therefore provide financial resources. If you have read the report for each year of the operation of the Academy of Engineering, you have seen it speak of facing each year the acute issue of providing financial resources. And we are generous in the scope of the tasks and modest in the financial means to carry out these tasks. And since we find out this error, at this point we say, let us now cut a little bit after these points to justify the modest means that we have committed to this academy. I think that this is the wrong approach, that this is a bad approach, and that this way we will do the Engineering Academy in the content significantly different from what members who today form the Engineering Academy, established on the basis of Satan society, represent this in a completely different way. And they also expressed this in the discussions on the parent working body, where they actually felt this neglect, which we also talked about today that we want to replace with rapid steps, while we are so irresponsible that we actually write down more or less of the tasks of the Engineering Academy. Therefore, we propose or propose ourselves to support the amendment to Article 3, precisely for the reason that we take the time and allow ourselves to think thoroughly about what and what role we want to play in the Engineering Academy at all. I do not agree with the State Secretary's assessment, which he said on the Committee about the relations we will see what time will bring and we will also see whether 20 million is or is not enough, so let us give time and we will see. If they work properly, we might give more money, but if they don't, maybe 20 million enough. It is therefore very important, in what way we will define the tasks and, if we are to carry out the tasks that we are expected to perform by the Engineering Academy, in this case we must be consistent, clear and give a clear journey to start work to the Engineering Academy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u187	Thank you. If I may use this term, I believe that it did not lead to the level of funds in his proposal, but rather to a warning from the parental committee, which may have warned of certain duplications on the one hand between the Engineering Academy and on the other hand the Science and Technology Council and the Higher Education Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I will, of course, support this amendment to Article 3, because it comes from a good purpose to make these tasks of the Slovenian Academy of Engineering as capable as possible. From the beginning I didn't even understand Mr Germić's efforts, I thought it was against this, but he made it clear that this is also his common interest. This is exactly what I am taking advantage of, this opportunity to express the satisfaction that we have shown in this law a common position, a common enthusiasm and a common awareness of the importance of technological and scientific and technical knowledge in Slovenia. That this knowledge is extremely undervalued in Slovenia, that the technical and natural intelligence in Slovenian society was extremely undervalued mainly during the period of transition and that despite such underestimation, Slovenian technical and technological intelligence has achieved many successes in the world that reflect. This establishment of the Engineering Academy should also help to ensure that Slovenia does not change into technology in the future, as some development departments closed down during the transition. In many areas, the Slovenian Academy of Engineering can also take important steps through the tasks defined in Article 3 to make the engineering profession popular, to make science popular, to contribute to the future of solutions that it considers to be personally pointless with regard to the qualification of the university through the graduation. Because the current way in which students have to make decisions in the third year, from which they will make a graduation, has a very bad effect on the fact that after graduation they can sign up for this technical course, because at the age of 16, they feel they are not happy for technology, for science and choose the wrong choice. Here are a number of deformities arising from the previous school reform that we have not yet been able to repair, and also the Slovenian Academy of Engineering is an institution that will be able to take important steps in the right direction, as I have already said, to improve the position and importance and social status of technical intelligence in Slovenia, which will contribute to the development of new products, new technologies that Slovenia needs bloodyly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u191	Thank you. My colleague Jerovšek, I have said this about the amendment to Article 3 and I have pointed out the inconsistencies of the amendment in relation to the tasks that are recorded by individual indents and do not follow consistent logic. Why? I'll point it out one more time. In the second indent, you delete research, education, i.e. the whole indent reads: "Assesses and gives an opinion on the state and development of technical knowledge and professions, research and education and organisational issues in this field." Then, for example, in the ninth indent, "appreciates successful state measures in the field of education, economic, technological, industrial policy". 10th indent - "Participates in the preparation of policies and programmes of educational technical staff at all levels of education". Of course, given that you want to exclude the field of education, you keep it in some indents. And I'm just saying that the tasks of the Engineering Academy, defined in this way, can cause confusion. Ambiguity in the combination of competences in relation to the various institutions that exist in the Republic of Slovenia. This is what I have tried to make my comment on the amendment that is proposed here, but not to discuss in general what you have been saying and represent, I would say, a broader dimension of the issue, which is related hereafter. The thought went specifically to the content of the amendment, which you are talking about, that you did not understand it yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Once again, the application is under way. Mrs. Breda Bakan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u193	I have to say, this amendment slightly lifts pressure on a man. The fact is that we have been given a law called the Engineering Academy of Slovenia Act, which is supposed to be an institution that connects and unites people who have done a whole scale of all the educations that have achieved some outstanding success in their profession, and who have a special role and mission to do so, that in the field where this academy was founded, they can also independently, autonomously, freely, without any kind of - how has it already been written here? - "is fully free to express professional and ethical assessments on all issues relating to technical and natural sciences in our country." And then respected colleagues from SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS - this surprises me a little, especially the latter - say that in the 9th indent, the word "educational" should be deleted in assessing the performance of state measures in the field of education policy. So again we have come into a situation where our Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology does not want anyone in this country - not only the Engineering Academy of Slovenia, it is any institution that allows itself in any way to evaluate the work of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, because this is probably all about assessing education policy, especially at higher and academic level, probably a little less in the field of primary and secondary education. Significantly, noticeably, and I would say that speaking of how this ministry works in the field of higher education, science and technology, I think it would still need an independent and fully free professional and ethical assessment in its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Moge, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There was a lot of dilemma on the board about that, too. The Committee has at least improved this law by adding "and other tasks in accordance with the Statute" in Article 3. Because if we write something in the article and so this engineering academy wants to change one of the tasks, it has to change the law, not the statute. And that's why we said it would be good -- but the government couldn't do it now because it's a second-reading proponent -- to narrow this area down and clear this area of what others are doing. It seems to me that this amendment has achieved a part of this purpose. But I am not fully satisfied with this, and I would recommend to the Government that, in the third reading, this article is yet to be cleaned; only this article is now open. Look, colleagues and colleagues, here's your second line. [[What you were saying.]] : "Assesses and gives opinions on the state and development of technical knowledge..." That's right. The engineering academy can say something about this, but to evaluate and give opinions on research and education, when we do have saints when we have agencies that monitor this; it is similar later with these policies to actively participate in these policies, with all these tasks, as I said before, if they are well distributed, they can assess what these state authorities that have been elected are doing. This is an institution over these bodies, as far as I understand the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts. It gives opinions on the functioning of the country when we need its opinion. Similarly, the Engineering Academy should be placed on top of this and the basic tasks legally defined to be carried out by institutions, as I have already said, by the Higher Education Council, the Council for Scientific and Research Activities, the Agency for Technology, the Agency for Development - these should carry out these tasks. And it is usually with these 21 million, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, which I repeatedly repeat, that I know how about sheep cut in this National Assembly, they can stand on eyelashes, but all of these fourteen or so, this money will not be able to be used in quality. I would therefore ask the representative of the Government to try to narrow this down for the third hearing and to try to solve these tasks within the framework of a statute which then has power, because this law gives it to write a few indents that they will be able to carry out at this point in time with this funding.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Check-in is on. Here you go, Mrs. Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u197	Thank you so much for saying that. I would just like to point out that I do not really know why Mr Germič is so upset about the amendment to Article 3. We on the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development discussed this and also took into account most of the positive recommendations proposed by the opposition. Dr Slavko Gaber had quite a few comments, and I think most of them have been taken into account, including this amendment that we proposed in the coalition. Otherwise, I would like to say that I also had some concerns about the Law on the Engineering Academy of Slovenia, but not about Article 3, it is said that the tasks that this engineering academy will have or will carry out, but above all I have been asked about the relationship of the Engineering Academy of Slovenia to the SAZU, is called the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, and of course at the symbolic level. This seemed a dilemma to me, not what we are currently discussing and speaking to Mr Germić about the tasks that this engineering academy will perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. It's bad luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I support this amendment because, in fact, it is somewhat more consistent to formulate the same tasks defined by the law here. In no way should it be disputed in a democratic society that the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia also gives opinions in the field under the responsibility of other institutions. I think that the Slovenian Engineering Chamber itself will demonstrate in its current activities that this partnership between engineering intelligence in the field of technical and natural works, in the field of research development, in the economy, as well as in the field of engineering intelligence in the scientific sphere can be successful with its opinions on promotion, with emphasis in this society playing a somehow important role both in partnership with the Academy and the scientific sphere as well as in other spheres in Slovenia, and in particular in its work it encourages the desire for such education and, above all, in that individuals and the economy are achieving adequate success in this innovation, information and not knowing what kind of society yet. In this context, I also support such more consistent statements in this Article and, of course, the law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u200	Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. POINT OF THE DAY - OTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE LEGISLATIVE MEASURES TAKEN BY THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA OR IMPLEMENTING IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LEGAL ACTS AND DECISIONS TAKEN IN THE FIELD OF INTERNATIONAL ORGANISATIONS. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a representative of the Government for further explanation. Here you are, Dr. Bozo Cerar, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! International peace and security, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy and the rule of law in the modern world represent universally recognised values, to which the Republic of Slovenia, as a respected member of the international community, is also bound, in particular within the framework of its membership of the United Nations and the European Union. Unfortunately, there is still a violation of its fundamental values in the world, and in such cases, the international community has, through international organisations, individual mechanisms to try to prevent or address such violations. One such mechanism is also restrictive measures or international sanctions that the international community can impose against certain countries and other entities which do not respect international law. Here it plays a major role in the security of the UN Council, which, on the basis of the Charter of the United Nations by resolutions, introduces sanctions, which are subsequently implemented within the framework of the European Union by means of legal acts of the European Union with common positions or regulations, depending on the competence of the Union for individual substantive areas. Of course, the effectiveness of restrictive measures depends mainly on their implementation by Member States of international organisations. Since its independence, the Republic of Slovenia has continued to implement the restrictive measures of international organisations by adopting the current Act of Restrictive Measures, which systematically regulates this area, in 2001 due to the greater efficiency and transparency of the system, similar to other European countries. However, within a few years of its implementation, the law has proved to have certain shortcomings, including because it was adopted under conditions where Slovenia was not yet a member of the European Union. This was also noted by the special committee of the Council of Europe. For this reason, and for reasons of greater transparency, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to draw up a new Act concerning restrictive measures imposed or implemented by the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with legal acts and decisions taken within the framework of international organisations. The law regulates the implementation of international sanctions on the basis of UN and European Union legal acts and other international organisations that bind Slovenia, and also governs sanctions that Slovenia adopts otherwise in accordance with international law. On the basis of maintaining the framework of the current regime under the current restrictive measures law, as far as it has proved appropriate, the fundamental elements of the law are the following: the law defines restrictive measures as measures, to establish or maintain international peace and security, to ensure respect for human rights, the rule of law and democracy, and to achieve other internationally compatible objectives. The law also gives the Government the power to adopt, implement, impose sanctions for infringements and to remove restrictive measures by new provisions for the automatic cessation of sanctions when the UN or the European Union ceases sanctions. The Act on the database of restrictive measures sets out the option and its establishment, where appropriate, specifies the tasks of the permanent coordination group to monitor and coordinate the implementation of the restrictive measures, which have now been unclear. The group can therefore give a new opinion on the procedure for the implementation of sanctions in support of the decisions of the Government and support the decisions of the competent ministries. The law regulates the procedure of the body with the role of persons in the implementation of sanctions and, of course, by referring to the application of a general administrative procedure with certain specificities to accelerate the procedure for the specificity of the sanctions regime. It specifies more precisely the irresponsibility of the State and private entities for the damage caused by the implementation of sanctions. It shall supervise the implementation of restrictive measures. With the adoption of the new Restrictive Action Act, Slovenia will improve the implementation of the measures imposed against violators of international law by the international community and thus further contribute to the enforcement of international peace and security, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy and the rule of law in the world. I therefore propose, honourable Members and Members, that you vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u202	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Jožef Jerovska, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u203	Your Honor! The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy, at its 21st meeting, considered the draft law on restrictive measures imposed or implemented by the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the legal acts and decisions taken within the framework of international organisations submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed law regulates the implementation of international sanctions on the basis of UN and European Union legal acts and other international organisations that bind Slovenia and also governs sanctions adopted by Slovenia in another way in accordance with international law. The main reason for the amendment of the restrictive measures law was the report of the special committee of experts of the Council of Europe to assess measures to prevent money laundering, which identifies certain shortcomings in the regulation of restrictive measures in the Republic of Slovenia. The representative of the applicant explained in the introductory explanation that the proposed text has a different title than the law replacing it because it regulates the implementation of restrictive measures defined by the United Nations or the European Union, as well as the self-implementation of restrictive measures in accordance with international law and European Union law. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service in its consideration of the draft law. In the light of the legislative and legal service's comment on Article 3 of the draft law, the Committee adopted an amendment which is included in the amended draft law. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, I invite you to continue to present the position of the Group of Members, as the positions of the groups of Members are being presented.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u205	One more nice hello to everyone. Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support the proposal for a law, as the main reason for the amendment of the law is the report of the Council of Europe's special committee of experts on the evaluation of measures to detect and prevent money laundering, which identifies certain shortcomings in the regulation of restrictive measures in the Republic of Slovenia, which concludes that the administrative procedure concerning the freezing of accounts should be completed, by excluding provisions on the release of funds and the rights and duties of financial institutions and account holders. In the report, together with some corrections to individual shortcomings, such as ambiguities in the adoption of restrictive measures in the case of binding, non-binding acts of international organisations and in relation to the GLOBE corrections, it shall be carried out in the law before us. The law regulates restrictive measures that Slovenia can introduce in order to establish and maintain international peace and security, to ensure respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, to develop or consolidate democracy around the world, in accordance with legal acts and decisions taken within the framework of international organisations. Preventing money laundering, international peace, respect for human rights are important goals and values that lead the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group in supporting this law ahead of us. The law authorises the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a regulation imposing restrictive measures by allowing for the rapid introduction or elimination of restrictive measures, which is very important due to the nature of sanctions. Other Member States of the European Union are also taking such an approach. Where restrictive measures are imposed without the basis of minimum obligations, a standing coordination group shall give its opinion. It is also envisaged that the measures taken to implement the UN or European Union restrictive measures will cease to apply once the relevant UN or European Union measures have ceased to apply, which we consider to be extremely important - in our own Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The obligation to establish a database of restrictive measures is changed, and the database will be stopped if the Government so decides, following the previous opinion of the coordination group, which in practice means that the collection will only be established if there are actual needs for it. More specifically, the new law provides that the enforcement of claims for damages cannot be made for the lawful implementation of restrictive measures. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that this is a significant improvement in the applicable restrictive measures law. As a result of all the above facts, we will support the law in the SDS Group of Members, as we have already stressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Aurelio Juri has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u207	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Social Democrats understand the intent of the law, and we also accept its need, which is dictated to us by both the identified shortcomings of the regulation in force and the obligations undertaken within international organisations, in particular in the fight against terrorism or its financing and the fight against money laundering. That we must do so, it does not last but warn us and addresses the report of the Council of Europe's special committee of experts working on it. However, we find it difficult to express our enthusiasm for a more effective but slightly more problematic allocation of broad powers to the Government in issuing rules outside European and other international rules to serve the introduction and implementation of restrictive measures which the State is obliged to implement in this area. We also find a little questionable - despite the agreement of the Legislative and Legal Service - provision whereby there is no or will not be any compensation for the damage that has been or will be caused, as it says, by the legal implementation of restrictive measures. We are not entirely convinced that the solution is constitutionally sustainable, because the legality of the individual measure or action cannot be decided by the author of such an act and even less so can deprive the potential injured person of the right to appeal. However, since we have not seen serious concerns about the marriage proposal in the stage of its creation from the legal profession, and because we do not want to help, we do not intend to oppose it. In doing so, let us once again point out that with this novelty, as important as it is to stop international terrorism or at least make the flow of money more difficult, we cannot give him any more tangible blow if the wider global political strategy against it is not more decisive in addressing the causes of its creation and existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr State Secretary with fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members. Allow me at the outset to announce the positive position of the New Slovenia Group on the Proposal for a Law on Restrictive Measures introduced or implemented by the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with legal acts and decisions taken within the framework of international organisations. The President of the Act is the Restrictive Measures Act. Now the title is a slightly longer, new, extended title refers to two important parts of the content of the law. There are two issues, namely the introduction and implementation of measures. The Republic of Slovenia shall implement measures where they are taken elsewhere, such as in the Organization of United Nations or in the EU. It can also introduce them on its own. In this way, EU legislation also gives it the option of introducing autonomous measures. For the time being, the Republic of Slovenia is taking these restrictive measures on the basis of the positions or regulations adopted by the EU. The reason for the amendment of restrictive laws is the report of the Council of Europe special committee of experts on the evaluation of measures to detect and prevent money laundering, which identifies certain shortcomings in the regulation of restrictive measures in the Republic of Slovenia, in particular in the Restrictive Measures Act. In addition to these shortcomings in the administrative procedure, the Restrictive Measures Act has identified some other shortcomings that have been adequately addressed by the new law in our opinion. The proposed law contains the main solutions for defining restrictive measures. The Government shall give the power to adopt, implement, impose sanctions and to remove such restrictive measures. It shall further address issues relating to the database of restrictive measures and specify the tasks of the Standing Coordination Group to monitor and coordinate the implementation of such measures. It also regulates the conduct of the role of persons under the law and provides for the supervision of the implementation of restrictive measures. I conclude with a statement, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, on the support of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u210	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday 23 November 2006 in the framework of the votes. With this, I interrupt the agenda item, and I also interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 4.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u211	Dear Members and honourable Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before that, my colleague Tanko has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u212	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I propose that the agenda items 1 and 4 be replaced in the course of the discussions for tomorrow's meeting due to objective circumstances. In fact, the Minister of Economy is travelling to Turkey this afternoon, the Secretary of State is in a hospital because of a traffic accident and, due to these objective circumstances, I propose that we adopt this replacement of the order of those points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u213	Thank you, too, for the procedural proposal. We are following Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, and I am putting the proposal to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] The proposal by my colleague Tank is accepted. So tomorrow is subject to an amended order of treatment of points. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. In accordance with established practice, I ask all Members present and Members to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. In accordance with the proposal of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, the Parliament will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janša, to the parliamentary question of the victory of Jelinčič Plmenite concerning the preparation of the Law on the Roma Community. I am opening the procedure for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think it is imperative that we open this gypsy topic in the National Assembly, because it's been going on too long. It's been escalating, and it's worse every day. In fact, if we look at the fact that the number of Gypsies, including those without citizenship and without any documents, is rapidly increasing, this matter is so urgent that it needs to be addressed in the National Assembly. The fact is that gypsy settlements are slowly expanding throughout Slovenia, the latest are already in Medvod and also after other parts of Gorenjska, where they were not known before, except Sints in Jesenica. It should also be borne in mind that the eviction of such families as Strojanova, which is said to have been reported to me from those places, offered shelter for criminals who had fled from the police, and therefore did not want to go to another location, so that these matters should be settled. Given that it is possible to remove someone who behaves in a healthy, criminal way in every housing block where housing is owned, with the signatures of 60% of the owners of the apartments, and I don't know what it is, I think that this requirement of people from Ambrus as well as other villages in Dolenjska is perfectly legitimate for these people to be removed from their environment. Given that our police are unable to do anything, there is no reaction; and as I learned, the latest information is that tonight in Metlika an unknown undisputedly stole copper turtles from police stations - I am sure that this was not done by the northern deer, but by someone else. I'd like to suggest another matter. I think it would make sense for the National Assembly to finally take the decision to propose to the President of the State, Mr Janez Drnovšk, to take care of Slovenian Gypsies or all Gypsies who are in Slovenia, because the Slovenians are very few, and the indigenous ones are much less, instead of dealing with the Darfur problem - I think he will have enough work to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u215	Thank you, too. I am opening a debate to explain the voice. I ask every Member to report. Member Joseph Školč has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the Republic of Slovenia, we are facing very severe confrontations on this issue, but the initiative given by colleague Jelinčič and the text accompanying this initiative is such that it is absolutely necessary to reject this initiative with "gnus". These kinds of talk, dear friends in the National Assembly, make it particularly difficult to associate people of different nationalities, different cultural customs, not to talk about other things. I think that the National Assembly needs to talk about certain things because of its dignity, but it is necessary to talk about these things when they are served in a way that they are served acclamatically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u217	Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There were 70 Members and Members present, and they voted in favour of 4 and were opposed to 63. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 63.]] I note that the proposed decision has not been adopted by the assembly. In line with Ambassador Majda Shirce's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to Majda Širc's question on ensuring respect for the constitutional order in the field of human rights and ensuring equality before the law." I am opening the procedure for explanations on behalf of the Group of Members, please. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u218	Thank you very much. In a rather restless environment yesterday, I asked the President of the Government about respect for the constitutional order, in my case, after our assessment of the violation of at least nine articles of the Constitution, when the Government sought a solution in a rather inappropriate way, a solution to the problem of the Roma. In the second part, I also touched on the issues surrounding the strategy for greater fertility and its opinion on the introduction of the payment of abortion. The answer of the Prime Minister was, of course, in style: problems are not from today, problems are triggered by others and you can tell us how to solve them now. However, something has happened, which is why I believe in particular that a debate should also be held in the National Assembly around its response. In fact, in front of and before the entire Slovenian public, Mr Janša said that the articles we discussed on the issue in foreign media dealing with the Roma problem in Slovenia had been written by Slovenian journalists and were therefore written very unilaterally, causing many problems. When I quote the President of the Government, as he answered yesterday, as far as this news is concerned, I am talking about the New York Times and the Herald Tribune: "as for the news you read, you know, so there are some reporters or correspondents of foreign press agencies at the same time, Slovenian media journalists, they are sometimes signed, you can read, and those news agencies that publish about this event are written first in Slovenian and then they go into the world, many have been very unilateral and have actually caused a lot of problems." Not only does the President of the Government, with his ministers, direct the media space in Slovenia, even more, intervene and evaluate the writing of foreign journalists, prestigious foreign journalists for prestigious foreign newspapers. There is no doubt that this must be discussed, so I ask you to support the proposal to discuss the Government's response to our question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u219	Thank you, too. The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u220	Thank you very much. As Machiavelli said: The purpose is to devote resources; although I do not agree with the starting points of my colleague, I will absolutely support her proposal. For it is reasonable to open the debate and discuss these burning themes, but of course from substantially different viewpoints and starting points. The most important starting point is, of course, Article 22 of the Slovenian Constitution, Mrs Širca, where equality before the law is discussed. We cannot talk about equality before the law, when in recent times the Strojan family, which has been sitting for almost a month on the first page and striking terms in the Slovenian media, which is bloody sad and devilishly controversial, I could say. On the other hand, these gentlemen are already in Postojna at this short time of three weeks to gather nearly 30 criminal charges for small thefts. Who did this? Are the northern deer back on the job or what's here now? I think it's about time we said something about it and get these things done. On the other hand, I am very glad that some of our mentalists from various, I would say, liberal logos and former communist logos sent such articles abroad, where they have maligned Slovenia, because thank God, but maybe some Gypsies from Romania, Poland and elsewhere will avoid Slovenia, because they will say, but they prefer not, but there are such and such people. Because otherwise, Mrs. Shirca, it's no problem, take two gypsies home. In the LDS Group, you are enough to take some of Strojan's families, as far as you can figure out their number at all. I do not think I am in any way in favour of what some in Dolenjska have suggested that the Gypsies move to Ljubljana. And when I asked them where to go, they said, "In the zoo there to the deer, let the fire burn, and we'll see if they hope to steal the food from the bear." I don't think that's the right relationship, but that's how people think in Dolenjska. And if we push the issue back into place and we don't discuss it, I think there's something even worse ahead of us than the current events. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u221	Thank you. There's a member of Parliament, Eva Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u222	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the proposal after the discussion on the response of the Prime Minister to the Government proposed by Mrs Shirca. For we believe that the Government, and above all all the three competent ministries that are fast-tracking and in-depth dealing with these last events, are working well and that these problems also solve well. The fact is, this government has begun to solve this problem. It prepares a bill on Roma community, allocates expenditure to Roma issues, also regulates the active employment policy of Roma unemployment and so on. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that such talk, as was done yesterday by Ambassador Shirca, does not lead anywhere but only increases this gap between the Roma and the rest of the population. Expressing an impatient speech, which offered no solution to the problem, only indicates that some people are in a position to do so and that they want to do so and that they want to do so more with such talk. At the moment, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, or at the moment, it would be better if the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia proposed a solution, perhaps proposing a location for the Strojan family, rather than focusing on how to further fuel the already entrenched passions. Of course, it is not that strange, however, when we know that in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia they cannot unite even at the local and national level. In fact, it is not possible to overlook the fact that in LDS and also in your Liberal Academy you have responded indignantly to the consensual relocation of the Roma family to the capital centre, and on the other hand your mayor, I think it comes from Grosuplje, would never accept the Roma. Moreover, in 2002, this mayor even challenged the Law on Local Self-Government before the Constitutional Court because the law ordered certain municipalities to amend their statutes so that they would also have a Romani councilman. Today is the fact that Grosuplje does not have this Romani saint, yet no, and here, in fact, the question is, where is the respect of the rule of law now and where has Mr Hanžek, who has not yet been able to visit the Ambrušany and not the Strojan family, been hidden in this case. We will therefore not support this proposal in the parliamentary group, as it is clear from yesterday's performance that the debate would take place in the same tone, its own impatient tone and certainly not in the tone that would lead to the resolution of this problem. And here, in fact, I agree with Mr Školč, who also agreed on the impatient speech in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u223	Thank you. I'm opening a circle to report Members and Members of Parliament. Here you go, please. Member Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u224	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I will, of course, support the proposal for a debate, also because, in this very brief beginning of the debate - I consider this today - there have been a number of setbacks regarding the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and our attitude towards the question of Roma, to the question of co-existence, to the question of tolerance and intolerance. Surely one debate will not resolve this issue, but it will begin to resolve them. The lies and instigations were very large, including how someone had ever talked about anything and how they had seen the solution. At this point, however, I am most interested not only in where Mr Hanžek is, but also in where Mr Mate is, who has adopted an executive command over the police and has done nothing of all, except the great spectre in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u225	Thank you. The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u226	Thank you very much. The Spitzer was not cooked by Minister Mate at all, but was cooked by completely different people. In particular, it was cooked by the Gypsies themselves and was primarily cooked by that authority, which allowed uncontrolled immigration of Gypsies for 12 years, mainly from Croatia, Kosovo and parts of Serbia. Go look, say, in Novo mesto, in the village of Žabjek, and you will see that there were gypsies there six, seven years ago around 140, today there are about 700! Don't tell me they multiplied there so fast! This does not go according to the laws of normal human development. But they got there and no one asked them if they had any documents or didn't have them. It is true that, in the previous term, Mr Bohinc tried to give all such citizens citizenship in order to vote in favour of the United List at that time. This has failed him, but in the Liberal Democracy you have helped him in these matters because of your multiculturalism and I do not know what else you have done very dearly. And I think it is high time for Slovenia to look at the country that protects the interests of its citizens in Europe, and that is Switzerland. Let's not take or take models in England that are half black or brown, let's not take models in France that are now fighting to save France from the raid of the Africans. By the time it comes to this in Slovenia, it will be too late, and given how much it was prepared for us in Slovenia to fight on our own, how many of those who signed the White Paper on Surrender - do not look at me like that, Mr Školč - in this case it is very questionable whether the Slovenians will be able to defend themselves against this matter any time later.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u227	Thank you. Member Marjetka Uhan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u228	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support Mrs Shirce's proposal, because in no case has the Constitution been violated, both in the case of the Roma and not in the case of a strategy on the increase in fertility in Slovenia. There's been a lot of talk about the Roma lately. Unfortunately, I feel that it is also biased because both sides are not treated equally or equally. However, I must say that this Government is working hard to solve the problem of Strojanov, and I hope that it will also solve the other problems arising from the Roma in Slovenia. But as for the fertility strategy, this is a working version, and unfortunately, the birth strategy in Slovenia is very necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u229	Thank you. Member Franz Žnidaršič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u230	Thank you very much. I had no intention, but I will support this debate because I am ashamed to hear some statements here about who is responsible for the problem that has arisen. No one deals with a fundamental issue. Was our authority obliged in the event of a lynching attempt in that congregation to protect constitutional order or to let it come as far as it came? No matter what anyone did before! I believe that everyone is guilty, everyone by little, and the power of the former and later, for having come so far. But the solution was not good, and not only did Hanžek tell us, but probably the European Commissioner. Therefore, my heart pains that the fundamental question remains open, whether we will respect the constitutional order and do everything we can to respect it, whether we will let anyone have five minutes of time, close the road, and decide on the congregation that someone should not come back to his land; and the state is assisting or not. We have to deal with this until the end of this National Assembly. I am opposed to assisting in such decisions, even though this is the conclusion of a congregation called Ivančna Gorica. This decision does not have any legal basis in the constitutional order of this country, and it is therefore right to hold this debate, and I will definitely ask in it a number of questions to which I would like an answer, otherwise I will continue to be unhappy to try all of this here. I support this debate and put myself on the side of the constitutional order and the legitimate resolution of things, regardless of who is to blame. If someone's guilty, let them lock him up for that or punish him, but that's not how it's done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u231	Thank you. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I myself will support the proposal made by my colleague, Mr Shircheva, that this topic or the response of the President of the Government be discussed here. I am convinced that this is a very serious question that the President of the Government did not answer or answered in his distinctive style yesterday, which says he is clearly not concerned about the situation which is undoubtedly at this time about the fact that the legal state does not work in Slovenia. In Slovenia this moment the rule of law does not work. Look at what we've witnessed in the last days from Ambrus, Isolah, Bishop Locke to the village guards we are now witnessing to. The fact that, of course, the Constitution is clearly violated in a number of articles, including in Article 35, which states that everyone in this country has the right to choose his residence and also has the right to free movement; that we do not say that the Law on Public Roads does not apply - it is obvious that the Minister of the Interior is acting as a police minister; that we are not talking about the fact that the President of the Government clearly does not understand the role of the Ombudsman and says that the problem is that the Ombudsman has informed the Council of Europe about human rights about this problem, not that the problem we are witnessing to him. The whole range of things is that we need to talk about in this connection, and perhaps, as Mrs Irgle said, but if this government is not capable, we will really offer a model to show how these problems can be solved. In this way, as is now being solved, surely not. Mr Jelinčič, the equality before the law is Article 14 of the Constitution, not Article 22.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u233	Thank you, you. I will be the one for all those who have forgotten what the proposal for a debate will be and that the possible proposal for a discussion of the Law on the Roma Community was envisaged under point 1, which is under the proposal of the decision of Mr Zveg Jelinčič, which has already been decided by the National Assembly, the proposal for a decision, as proposed by Mrs Širc, is of a broader nature, and I therefore remind you that you take this into account in your explanations of vote. My colleague Slavko Gaber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As my colleague Majda already knows, I will not support this proposal for a debate on my own. And the reason is simple. Slovenia does not need a public debate on the issue, which we are discussing here quite easily. Slovenia has gone so far into dangerous waters in this area that it needs, in particular, a serious agreement between all political actors without public display of such or different powers and without such or other attributable to credit or guilt. In Slovenia, the rule of law does not hold back pressure, even when it comes to the majority population, not even in Ambrus, but it does not hold back pressure even when we inadvertently and contrary to the law decide on the migration of people throughout the country. It is necessary to be aware of this and it is necessary to agree on this within the policy and, of course, also in civil society. We need this much more than our argument in this House. I'm counting on us to find another ground to discuss this, and I'm not going to support this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u235	Thank you. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u236	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! I myself, like my fellow Members, will support the proposal to resolve the Roma issue in this house, in the house where the rule of law begins. In the Slovenian National Party, unlike some others, we are not binary and without hair on our tongue. Dear colleagues of the Liberal Democracy, you have proposed the same thing as we have suggested, only in a multi-faceted word, as your Government has been wrapped up in a cellophane for 12 years, exactly the same thing. We would like to discuss the solution of the Gypsy issue, according to yours, to ensure everything in this world, and ours to stop the looting of Slovenian property and to endanger Slovenian people. You have referred to foreign newspapers in this regard, and those who very often forget to put Slovenia in European space, and we have referred to people who suffer under the influence of the terrors and threats of these Gypsies. But together, both our proposal and yours is to talk in this house and try to solve the Gypsy question definitively. But no, you're two-faced. You said, on your proposal, we will vote against and we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u237	Thank you. Member Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u238	Thank you for your word. I'd like to draw attention to yesterday's abuse of the Rules of Procedure. I would point out that the question was addressed to Janša and then the absent Minister Drobnic was increasingly involved. And the speech itself and the performance itself is increasingly beyond the basic question of the Member States. I was also a little surprised by the tolerance of the meeting, but I know that you and your colleague all three presidents have already had bad experiences, so perhaps the president was more tolerant yesterday and did not stop the matter. One question then raised a whole series of questions. And just because of the guy, kind of [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u239	Comrade Milenko Ziherl, we are in the voice-explanatory phase.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u240	Yes, because I will say that I will not support this issue, or with disgust I refuse to discuss serious matters in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u241	Thank you. Is there any other desire to explain your voice? [[It's not.]] Then we move on to the vote. We're voting. Comrade Rob, you're late. There are 69 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 49. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the proposed decision has not been adopted by the assembly. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Dusan Kumra, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to Dusan Kumra's question on the envisaged measures to address social differences." I am opening the procedure for explanations on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go. You're giving up. Member Geza Juban has the floor. You're quitting, too. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u242	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Given that I have asked a very clear question yesterday and not least a short question, what the Government will do to eliminate obvious wage imbalances, which result in an increasing social distribution and differentiation in Slovenia, or what the Government will do to reduce these factors or vectors in the economy, and because the President of the Government has not given me a satisfactory response, even more, his comments, some views and answers have been drawn from the wrong source data, it is right that Members and Members should be informed of credible data. I have listed only a few public institutions, agencies and companies, where abnormally high personal incomes are paid to the leading and high remuneration of supervisors. In doing so, I did not provide data on companies operating on the market, but on those companies and companies where the Government directly or directly tailors fate in these environments, where it is the majority owner or co-owner. It is therefore even more unacceptable, according to the Prime Minister's reply, that in such environments, where there is not a small number of workers who do not reach a minimum wage, administrations share millions of wages and supervisors of the million prize. It is also unacceptable, which was decided yesterday by the President of the Government, to say that the state and on behalf of the Government are citing that they do not affect the criteria for the salaries of managers and the remuneration of supervisors in these same companies. It is in these companies that supervisors have been directly or indirectly recruited in the past two years and they have replaced administrations in these companies, where there are new people today. Indeed, they have done nothing but spend five times, ten times repairing the supervisory awards, and leaving high wages to the administration. Worse still, and I didn't want to do any intrigues or arguments within the government yesterday, the Secretary of State I was talking about was sitting here, and the President of the Government said in his position that the President of the Porte Koper Supervisory Board had no influence in this economic society, where the majority ownership of the state has an impact on wages or on the awards of supervisors. I therefore propose once again that you support this proposal and that we get a comprehensive picture in one of the debates in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u243	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? In my own name. I'm opening the procedure. Here you go. The word is by the representative of Vas Klavor. Here you go. You're giving up. Member Tomaž Šteba has the floor. Member Anton Kokalj has the floor. You're giving up. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will gladly support this debate. I think it's absolutely necessary. After all, if we look at how in the media to deal with Members of Parliament, the best-paid Member, I think that there are 22,000 places at the level of pay, then I think it's very sensible to examine and overwind gentlemen and ladies who, as usual in the previous regime, have been very well placed in certain positions and are just laughing in a mustache and thinking about our country, Slovenia, the National Assembly and the Slovenian Government. I think it is high time for us to show once who are the ones who in this way regulate the Slovenian economy, especially in this direction, to earn huge profits in their pockets. Even a comparison with people who earn little, I find it absolutely justified. It is true, however, that we could also open up a question of certain social assistance here, because given that many families barely get together there 100,000 tolars of common salary, on the other hand, the Gypsy gets 80,000 tolars per head, plus 36,000 tolars if the doctor squeezes on his neck and tells him that he has to write a certificate that he has bad digestion and prescribes an allowance for health problems. I think that in Slovenia this privatisation has started very strangely, led and in some cases is still being done. And I think it's a reasonable and extreme time to open this matter up and pour pure wine here, especially to voters and voters.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u245	Thank you. Member Matthew Lahovnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u246	Thank you very much. I myself will support the demand for a general debate, especially because I was very surprised yesterday myself when the President of the Government said here that there were no large increases in meetings for supervisors and administrations where the country has influence or where it can decide. Indeed, I have also noticed, like Mr Kumer, that a little less than 10 metres away from him was sitting by his own Secretary of State, who is the Chairman of the Supervisory Council in Luka Koper, Mr Marko Starman, and I have looked at the meetings in Luka Koper. Previously, the revenue of the Supervisory Board at an annual level of 8 million tolars, according to a new figure of over 30 million tolars, increased by more than four times. And either the Prime Minister doesn't know or he's lying. And I think it is right that this should be clarified in the general debate, especially because the President of the National Assembly himself has kindly warned everyone who has asked questions that Mr President of the Government does not have an additional opportunity to have too little time, and the purpose of the general debate is to actually look at it. Another such case is the State Insurance Company Triglav, which I hope we all know is that it is in the dominant state ownership or under state influence, where the President of the Supervisory Board has suspended for every participation in a meeting of 145,000 tolars and is still strong over half a million tolars of additional monthly prizes, that is 575,000 tolars, which is at the annual level at 12 meetings of 8 million tolars. Not to mention now some other cases of State secretaries sitting in three supervisory councils, in Triglav, Financial Investment, in Kad, in Slovenian Railways. One such is the State Secretary, who receives up to 15 million tolars in addition to regular salary at the annual level [[End warning sign]] , the President of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Railways, who has, we see how great the losses are, is the Secretary of State and gets rich meetings. So I think that's really the reason for the general debate, to see if the Prime Minister is lying or not. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u247	Thank you. Member Boyan Rugelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u248	Thank you very much. I will not support this proposal in any way. This question to this government, I think it's addressed incorrectly. You must send him to the government that was in power or that ruled until two years ago. This government has allowed all these anomalies to receive such high amounts, not to mention various withdrawals. Please give it back a little bit. This existing government is now seriously dealing with this problem, and I think at least what it is would deserve some commendation, not such a slight "with...", under the terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u249	Thank you, too. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u250	Now I have to say I'm a little embarrassed because there's a lot of things that the Prime Minister himself didn't know yesterday. That is, if the government is involved, at least the Prime Minister should know what he's dealing with. If you have listened well, the President of the Government said, as my colleague Rugelj has just said, this is the legacy of the former government, the previous transition that it was. I have to say, and I'll do the numbers. During the transition period, the number one or the first decade was either a meeting or a prize for supervisors from EUR 500 to EUR 5,000. Now it's a 1,000-30,000-euro session or a prize. I also made a point on the Secretary of State yesterday. Two of you sit here. These two with their 8, 9, 10 million in addition to their regular good wages, a million, four hundred a month, have been demolished by the public sector's own wage system. In addition, the Prime Minister of the Government, who has a 30% lower salary, sat at least according to the data on the APES. This is public information and is accessible to all. Not to mention what I said the previous time when we discussed the financing of the congregations, that there are also major anomalies within the congregations regarding some of the salaries of municipal officials. Therefore, I ask once again that we all have a credible picture, let us support this proposal and we will have all the same data and reliable data.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u251	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 41. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 41.]] I find that the proposal for a decision is not supported. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Boštjan Zagorec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next regular meeting on the agreement of Minister of Education and Sport, Dr Milan Zver, on the question by Mr Boštjan Zagorec on the reasons for the transfer of property rights to Vinarski Street 14 in Maribor from the Ministry of Culture to the Ministry of Education and Sport. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present and 24 votes against 47. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Sreč Krijata, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, to the question of Mr Šreč Friends on the envisaged construction of the Kobilarna Lipica golf course. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the members of the groups, please. Member Happy Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Constitution in the Republic of Slovenia and the legislation in the Republic of Slovenia are not sufficiently respected, as the decisions of the Constitutional Court also show. Over 100 laws are inconsistent with the Constitution. And on the initiative of a civil initiative and a professional worker who dared to give an assessment of the government's intentions, which was then fired, I asked the minister whether he intended to essentially withdraw all of the government's wishes to build a golf course within the backseat area and he answered in no way. If this happens in Lipica, Lipica will become a freak. Golf course is already possible in Lipico, not in the protected area. There's plenty of room where a golf course can be done because it's not inside the National Park. The government would rather take care of that part of the decaying cultural heritage that falls from day to day. There are real-socialist concrete sculptures of the hotel, which are their own purpose and Lipico knows the whole rich world, and no one goes there because they have no place to sleep and have nothing to eat where it is said to be, with horses' barns even better for people. In short, in Lipica there are noble horses and the Government, which regularly causes this damage on a daily basis, or is also a bad owner of other properties owned by it, does nothing. That is why I think it would be right to talk about Lipica and to give the Government a clear answer no, with what it intends to do, given that we have had enough time, probably you from the ruling party too, that you realized that you had wrongly pressed when you voted in favour of the Law on Amendments laid down the Law on Kobilina Lipica. There have been positive comments by the opposition, which you have not taken into account, as have many times. And if you don't know what Lipica looks like, go there, look at this cultural pearl, and you'll see it's a disgrace to Slovenia. And this Lipica is run by the state, and by this decision, when you make a decision, you also help make it worse in Lipica. That is why we now have the opportunity to decide again on this issue, to open an open debate on this and to help Lipica in some way.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u253	Thank you. We can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 45. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. Pursuant to the proposal of Ambassador Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the reply of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti and Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitri Rupl, to the question of the question of Mrs Zalokar Orazem on the new logo and the slogan of the Republic of Slovenia." Explanation of voice. I am opening the procedure on behalf of the groups of Members. Member Branko Marinič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u254	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Given that Slovenia, however, is one of the European countries, which must also come in the field of visibility and become visible among all members of Europe and beyond European borders. After a thorough review of the magnetogram on yesterday's issue of a fellow Member, it is, of course, to establish its duality when it first finds that the selected proposal from the invitation to tender does not correspond to the basis of the profession, on the other hand, it assesses it as an expert. I think it is important to point out that many of those who, as experts, had the opportunity to participate and that 350 experts participated in this call, there were so many proposals and at least so many experts. It does not seem appropriate, then, that if they do not cooperate, then they find out not to cooperate and then find out how none of what 350 experts have prepared is valid. The tourism economy has responded extremely well to this proposal. All experts who know the market niches in this area assessed the sign as good. It brings together the identity of the Slovenian nation and we should be aware of that. Certainly in the parliamentary group, we will decide on this proposal not to support it and it seems to us that it does not deserve to be addressed in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u255	The word has been delivered by the Member of the Flower of Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Slovenia, according to a colleague, received a new logo and a new slogan, and yesterday, two ministers who participated in the competition commission called for this decision to be withdrawn by the competition commission or before the government's final decision, but we also hold this debate in the National Assembly for three reasons. The first reason is the invitation itself. The invitation to tender was contested and since it was controversial, it was boycotted by the Slovenian designers' company before its publication, in which more than 100 real designers were involved in the design and marketing field. Another time. Infringements were evident with regard to the invitation to tender, as, inter alia, the President of the Government walked through Slovenian mountains before the tender was concluded on 1 September and the invitation to tender was concluded on 4 September, with a winning slogan on the cap. Of course, there were other violations, not least the profession said there was no logo selected, but a sign. In view of how the profession expressed itself about the slogan or logo, I repeat today that I have not been able to track down a single professional opinion within a week that would be positive. I'm talking about the profession. I did not define myself yesterday. I was referring exclusively to the profession represented by Ranko Novak, Jernej Repovž, Jura Apich and Marjan Paternoster. These were the three eminent designers I quoted yesterday about the sign. Last but not least, three ministers, three secretaries of state and one representative of the profession participated in the committee, which is actually a Unicum, one designer herself was on this committee. For all of this and because there is a clear lack of expertise in this competition, a breach of the Commission, which does not conform to international standards on similar matters, I think it is right that before this sign, which will obviously not be appreciated and accepted by the Slovenian public - this is clear after these ten days, and I think we will have a re-commitment in two years on this or the competition - I propose that we also hold this debate in the National Assembly. Finally, 3 million tolars were spent for this, a further 10 times that amount will be spent by choice, and it would make sense to prevent this and still imagine whether to have a sign and logo in Slovenia, which we do not accept with at least the majority support.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u257	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? More explanations for the voice? I'm opening the procedure, please. The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Well, it is true that the different logos appearing in Slovenia are not appropriate, but this is a practice. We have a coat of arms, which is not a coat of arms, which is a sign, some brand, some goathouse where no one knows what it is; maybe some kind of sign of a bicycle company, or some kind of hydroelectric power plant, where the water is flowing, and the electricity is jumping up and down. In short, this is common in Slovenia. And in all these matters, "imminent" Slovenian designers participated. Therefore, when I hear words about eminent Slovenian designers, I feel sick. The fact is, [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Mr. Skolcz, I don't know why you should take my word, but it would be nice, Mr. Skolcz, if you go out to be milked so you can calm down. I think our gentlemen, who draw and write logos, write them somehow in their own sense, after some kind of, I don't know, I'd say, angst or maybe after some kind of ascension of a certain moment. There are few devils who have chosen Slovenian logos something that is based in Slovenian history. And this is what I miss - that someone would turn back to a rich, extremely rich Slovenian history. And this is what I miss, though, that someone would turn back to a rich, extremely rich Slovenian history and pull out something beautiful historical, Slovenian. About our designers, please, designer it's from a Latin word that means cartoonist and they're nothing but cartoonists.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u259	Thank you. The word is Majda Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u260	The debate on the response of the Minister of Culture would be necessary. After all, he was one of the members of the committees, which is said to be an expert in the area of beauty or design. At the same time, it would also mean considering whether it is possible that important messages presented by Slovenia at home and abroad can be decided in such a non-chalant or inappropriate way. Ministers, foreign, cultural and others sat on the committee. For counselors they took a specialist for sailing boats and wine, one designer was in there, they did not even point out the distinction between what the logo is and what the sign is, and they came to a conclusion that some called Jesus ’ heart. "It is not for the National Assembly to decide on this subject if it is to discuss it, to quote the views of the designers who have been published in the public media, if you are encouraging me to remain unconcentrated when you are involved in my implementation, Mrs Irgle. In short, we have a solution that has come in a controversial way, obviously rejects it, not only professionally, but also lazily public. The government should once imagine or think that it can really do things that belong to the profession and take them into its own hands as we said yesterday, until it decides what underwear we will have to have in future women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u261	Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u262	Respectable, respectable! I will start by quoting Mrs Maja Novak, who wrote in Youth: "I feel Slovenia and otherwise I feel more shvoh". In fact, that's what this slogan brings. I am more concerned that the political commission that decided which slogan was most appropriate did not take into account the fact that it was copying. That it wasn't the original product. Such a "I feel" and then some countries forward, we have all over Europe, on every beach, on every stand where they sell these souvenirs very much and I don't know what would be particularly recognizable. That distorted Triglav or the heart drop or whatever, doesn't actually convince a man. I'm concerned that of all the 300 very good ones, as they say, he's obviously chosen the worst. I'm just curious about who the others were. However, I think that if there has already been a political commission with the minister and some other colleagues who have been randomly chosen there, then I think that the National Assembly can decide and therefore I support the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u263	Thank you. The word is given by the Parliamentary Flower Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Of course, I know that a logo, a sign or a slogan will never be the content in which everyone would agree and everyone would applaud them. It's something where everyone has an opinion. However, what I want and have disputed yesterday with the members of the Competition Commission, who were in the role of ministers, is a stain on this call, a stain that in such invitations on the Commission as a rule or in most cases, or a profession which has been totally ignored this time. And that is what the Society of Designers of Slovenia pointed out when it also called its members to boycott. Of course, these 350 proposals need to be looked at as to how professional they really are and how lazily they are. But I also agree here that perhaps someone who is not of the profession would choose or draw or suggest a good sign or slogan. Of course, with regard to what was chosen and what the President of the Government had already declared before the call itself or at the time of the call, it was clear that he had a mark on his hat, that this sign had been chosen and that the slogan had been chosen long ago in some other places, other places and was only routine to carry out this call. However, the profession that I mentioned yesterday is a profession that prepared something for all of us, I am sure, like action years ago, "Slovenia on the Sunside of the Alps" or "Slovenia My Land". And under this action, Slovenia actually gained independence, and its author is the one who said that this sign was empty, that this result made him sad and that this invitation was an aboriginal matter. I listen to such people, you obviously don't listen to them in the coalition, but you trust your politicians who have made that decision, and you are also convinced in this case that they know everything and know everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u265	Thank you. Just a message to future debaters. Minus 15 is not the target you have to pursue. Member Matthew Lahovnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u266	Thank you very much. I also have to say that I don't understand what this sign actually represents. When we talk about marketing Slovenian tourism, then we usually follow the differentiation strategy, we want to achieve some global differentiation, some positive impression of the potentials of service users in Slovenia. This means that we must first ask ourselves what are the competitive advantages of Slovenian tourism. On this basis, based on our global differentiation, it means that we are developing a sign that also reflects these competitive advantages. Personally in this sign, which is offered, I do not recognize any competitive advantages that could be marketed globally. The sign personally reminds me of a broken heart that may be very topical for someone, but I still think that not only was there not a suitable public competition, but also the choice is very problematic. When I looked at who supported this sign when you were talking about eminent representatives of Slovenian tourism, experts and I don't know what. Mr Piciga of the Slovenian Tourism Organisation is that Mr Piciga who was set up by this Government a few months ago, of course he did not wish to criticize these governments. Mr. Hribar is the head of the Tourism Directorate, who was again appointed by this Government. And I'm not reading anything, I'm just saying that the representatives of the tourist economies are just musing and are really worried about what we're going to invest in the promotion and development of this sign, which in fact does not reflect the competitive advantages of the Slovenian tourism economy of these same competitive advantages that we want to build global differentiation. That is why I think that this mark is a very problematic choice and I will make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u267	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We've got a colleague from school. We're reopening the debate. An explanation of vote, I apologize. Joseph Scholch has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u268	Thank you very much. I will support this debate myself. In the debate, if it comes to it, I will oppose all the intentions that we have heard here today. What interests me in this debate is that the government will explain why it does not trust experts to resolve professional issues. Why doesn't he trust designers and others who deal with the public image of businesses, with the public image of institutions, with actions to do so, but leave decisions to political people. This is what is called volunteerism and mistrust in professional decisions and in the professional public. This debate should come to light, and in this debate, Minister Rupel, a guest pen for a wide variety of things, should explain why he feels more called to decide on these matters than people who teach at academies operating in advertising agencies in Slovenia and the world. This is, I will say, the problem of this discussion, in addition to the fact that the result was probably agreed elsewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u269	Thank you. Number One, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I came forward because it is already difficult for me to listen to this intelligent and high-level debate on this matter. I will also oppose a special point because, gentlemen, be aware that if a slogan is to be recognized and also sit in crowds, it must be simple. We often say,'softwareers', 'keep it simple, stupid', it says, makes things simple, simple. In this case, the slogan is extremely simple and only Slovenia is recognized because it has a word for happiness in English in its name. And you could think of someone else for $10 million and use it. But we had slogans like "My Land," which is every single one of them. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u271	Number One, this is already a debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u272	We had slogans. Let me do the talking. We had slogans, like on the "Sunside Alps" and we had a very high and hard-to-recognizable slogan "Invigorates", it revives, I spent some time searching for a dictionary and only when I saw a Slovenian translation, I understood exactly what it meant to say this slogan, which in my opinion is very good. But anyone can use it in this loving world. Love in the English word Slovenia and in the Slovenian word, of course, no one can use it. And this is for me, for the first time, a simple matter and it will also be recognized. And let's stop making this complicated, and let's accept that everyone else in the world will change, and that we'll have something once recognized. If not the other, love in its own name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u273	Thank you. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 43. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. We are done with the point of initiatives and questions. However, we continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the draft Law on Public-Private Partnership. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We have three amendments tabled. We'll decide each and every one. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 20. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 41. (For the vote was 21.)(against 41.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 21. I am opening the procedure for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. I give the floor to Maria Possonec. Excuse me? The word is Milan Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u274	We are voting on the revised amendment to Article 21, by which we in the Liberal Democracy, in contrast to the discussions on whether we like this or that slogan, have proposed that, in deciding on the privatisation of thousands of billions of assets in public institutions, public economic institutions and public enterprises, the Government should do so on the basis of the functioning of the Public-Private Partnership Council led by the President of the Government, in which, in connection with the unfortunately unaccepted amendment to Article 20, all the relevant ministers operate. Since it is not possible for the Minister of Finance to determine this or any form of public-private partnership in the field of education, transport, health, culture without the participation of the relevant ministers. The Public-Private Partnership Council then formulates an appropriate strategy, and this strategy is being forwarded, this was our proposal already in the discussion at the home labour body, for the adoption of the National Assembly. This is related to Article 153. But Members and Members, if you support this amendment, then you will respect the constitutional legal order whereby in Slovenia we have the Ministry of State, which each has to deal with the issue of public-private partnership, but not that it is by law that you will adopt and which we oppose, only within the competence of the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance will simply tell the Minister of Health, we will not invest from public funds in the Hospital Trbovlje, we will release a private partner to the Hospital Trbovlje, we will allow him 15 to 20% of the return, the Minister of Finance will solve the short-term fiscal management problem, and the Minister of Health has at least two problems. The first problem is that contractors will start to pressure the insurance company for [[End warning sign]] raising the prices of health services, and the second problem is that in the final stage it will be more expensive for all of us, for the insurance companies and thus all of Slovenia and Slovenia. The decision is up to you, Members of Parliament and Members of the European Parliament, especially because, in the following article 153, we will try to block this as a non-transparent privatisation, we have an option today. [[End warning sign]] support the constitutional order in this Article and, in Article 153, give effect to the role of the National Assembly. Please support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u275	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 43. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 153. I am opening the application procedure on behalf of the groups of Members. Here you go. Member Cyril Testen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u276	Thank you for your word. On behalf of our parliamentary group, I will say that we have not supported these amendments and we will not support this third because we believe that these amendments are weakening the content of the law, especially because the talk of public-private partnership is not true. A public-private partnership is a partnership concluded on the basis of a contract between the two partners and a contract contains the obligations of both partners. We believe that a public-private partnership is a form that makes it easier and faster to resolve the public interest. To solve our problems more quickly, we need to engage private capital, otherwise we will have to deal with our key economic and development tasks for a long time. Also in the social field, public-private partnership is important, so we will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u277	Thank you. Two Members have been declared on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club. Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u278	Article 153 of the Public-Private Partnership Act, if we do not delete the proposed 3rd point, allows the Public-Private Partnership Act to become the law on non-transparent privatisation of thousands of billion state assets. When you reject this amendment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Finance will no longer need to come to the National Assembly when it decides to privatise state property in a public economic institution, a public institution, a public company. This privatisation by sale, the partnership with the sale of the share shall be provided for in paragraphs 8 and 9. When you reject this amendment, it will be perfectly legal that, as I have already said today, Popovic and friends in Koper will establish a d.o.o., invest 300 million tolars and take over the public company Komunala Koper, legally establish a public-private partnership. Mr Popovic, who will decide as mayor, will no longer need to come to the municipal council. The Minister of Finance, the Minister of Health on the privatisation of the clinical centre of Trbovlje will no longer need to come to the National Assembly once a year when the Programme for the Sale of State Finance and Real Property is established, since 1000 billion assets in public enterprises, public economic institutions and public institutions are excluded from the provisions of the Public Finance Act by deleting the third indent or from the third indent of Article 153. In Slovenia, every year since 1999 we have adopted a Programme for the Sale of State Finance and Real Property. The previous days, yesterday morning, you also adopted the Resolution on the sale of the New Credit Bank Maribor. But today in the National Assembly, we are concluding a story on the sale of 1000 billion national assets if you oppose the amendment I propose. And that, of course, is a big mistake. I understand the Minister of Finance that he wants it, but I do not understand the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of transparent processes, that it is afraid to come to the National Assembly, why it is necessary and how it will come to the private partner in the Trbovlje hospital and in 1000 public institutions. Please support the amendment that the National Assembly will ever exercise its legislative function.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u279	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 42. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments and thus conclude my second reading of the bill. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft law, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will vote on the draft law on Thursday, 23 November in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving to the 6th item, where I am merely informing you that the assembly will also vote on the proposal for a law on procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services on Thursday, 23 November, under the voting point, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the draft law on public procurement. Procedural proposal? Here you go, Comrade Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u280	In view of the announcements just made when the Law on Public-Private Partnership will be adopted and given that no amendment has been adopted, that no amendments can be tabled that the Government, regardless of the debate we had today, wanted nothing to do with the coalition. [[?]] harmonise to complete anything. We are predicting obstruction of the adoption of this law in the Liberal Democracy Chamber. We will not participate in the unacceptable, untransparent privatisation of state property. This responsibility, the ruling coalition, you will have to bear alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u281	Thank you, Comrade Squeakle, for your notice. If I understand you correctly, you are predicting the obstruction of your parliamentary group on Thursday, 23 November, when the law is being examined. Thank you. As we say, we continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - the second is the proposal for a law on public procurement. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, first of all to Article 6. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group to Article 6 above. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 44. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the same Group Member, i.e. the Liberal Democracy, to Article 9. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 44. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 14. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 42. (For the vote was 22.)(against 42.) We are moving on to Article 17, where we have two amendments, first of all to the decision on the first amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia to Article 17. I am opening the procedure for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Here you go. My friend Milan Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u282	Of course, I regret that Mr Sugar does not wish to explain its vote, but allow me to explain the contents of this amendment on behalf of the Group of Members. We are proposing a very simple provision. We propose that in the dispute between Patria Krpan, in the dispute, the company from Trzin and the WTO Ravne, we provide the company WTO with Equal Legal Protection in order to determine, of course, how inappropriately, firstly, the Ministry of Defence is carrying out a procedure called public procurement and how inappropriately the provisions of this contract are now being implemented. When STO Ravne started sending his complaints to the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence said very simply. You on the Public Procurement Act, given the provisions that so-called secret contracts are not subject to the Public Procurement Act, do not have legal protection. You do not have legal protection in the State Audit Commission under the Procurement Procedures Review Act, the next response received by WTO Ravne when it complained to the State Audit Commission. In Slovenia, we achieve 20 to 28% discount in public procurement between signed and signed prices. However, we do not provide legal certainty in the area of classified orders. This is regulated in a number of countries of the European Union in different ways, but legal protection is always provided in so-called independent of the National Assembly, from Parliament to the designated authority of the decrees. And it is unacceptable that you are rejecting the amendment, whereby we want only to ensure that in Slovenia there will also be 170 billion public defence contracts, including a few billion public contracts that ministers make up to be secret orders. For example, Minister Rupel has invented that it is necessary to purchase premises in Brussels as a secret order and therefore does not apply the procedure under the law on public procurement. And these few important billions of tolars would be subject to legal protection in Slovenia in order to achieve savings and prevent abuse. International studies also presented in this National Assembly on October 5th show that when there is no legal protection, corruption begins. In the case of defences [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] However, this is political corruption. [[...]] Prevent this option from supporting the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u283	Thank you. We can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 40. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group to the same Article 17. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 40. (For the vote was 23.)(against 40.) I take it this amendment has not been accepted either. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the same parliamentary group, i.e. the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 19. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 43. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 19 is not accepted. We are moving on to the 29th Article and Amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 43. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the four SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups to Article 116. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 50, 2 votes against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments and thus conclude my second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the bill's proposal for further procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u284	Mr. Vice President, thank you. On behalf of the Government, I propose that the National Assembly also carry out a third examination of this law, not to this meeting of the National Assembly in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u285	Thank you. As it is said that since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a dozen articles of the above-mentioned draft law, the drafter proposes that provision 138 of the Rules of Procedure be applied in order to hold a third consideration of the draft law at this meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal: "The decision will not be adopted if more than a third of the Members present oppose it." We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 57 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the bill on Thursday 23 November 2006, following the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the adoption of the amendment and the Article which has been amended. The amendments to the Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to the 8th item, where I inform you that the assembly will vote on the draft Banking Act on Thursday, 23 November 2006 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure. Before continuing with the 11th item of the agenda, the second is the proposal for a law on the Engineering Academy of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, and we have before us the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 3. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against 1. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment tabled and thus the second reading of the bill. I give the text to the representative of the proposed law on follow-up.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u286	Thank you so much for saying that. In accordance with Article 138, I propose that the hearing be held at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u287	Thank you. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, take a third reading of the draft law at this meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal: "The conclusion will not be adopted if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present." We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 58 in favour, three opposed. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted, and the assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Thursday, 23 November 2006, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare reviews to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to the end of the 10th item of the agenda, where I inform you that the assembly will vote in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure on the Proposal for a Law on restrictive measures introduced or implemented by the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the legal acts and decisions adopted by international organisations on Thursday, 23 November 2006, in the framework of the votes. I hereby adjourn the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 10 a.m. tomorrow. Have a nice goodbye and good night!
