ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Only Bevk from 3 p.m. onwards, Geza Juban, Ivan Yelen, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Mag. Borut Saiovic, Franz Sušnik, Marjetka Uhan and Flower Zalokar Orazem. We're moving on to 24. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the growth of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Dars D. D. From credits and issued debt securities for the implementation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia amounting to 1,030.15 million euro. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Minister of Finance, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. What a lovely greeting to all, honourable Members and Members! The Republic of Slovenia will finance the construction of motorway sections from the national highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia through concession fees, budget transfers, European Cohesion Fund funds and the introduction of a public-private partnership system. The Republic of Slovenia will give the company Dars d.d., which owns 100 % of the Republic of Slovenia, a guarantee to rent credits and issue debt securities, and this is the proposal that is before you today. Dars will repay credit and debt securities through concessions and transfers. Therefore, the duration and costs of the debt must be balanced by the amount of the concession fee. The law provides only a framework for borrowing and it is not necessary that the value of the guarantee be fully exhausted, especially if motorways are built with EU funding and public-private partnerships and a truly transparent and up-to-date toll system prepared by the Ministry of Finance, together with the ministry of transport and management of Darsa. The State must provide full-value guarantees irrespective of the method of financing. Pursuant to Article 149 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, State guarantees are permitted only on the basis of law. The adoption of the law will allow the conclusion of guarantee contracts with lenders or the issuing of a guarantee declaration. This is a condition for borrowing credits or issuing debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections under the national highway construction programme, under the following conditions: the funds can be drawn up in multiple instalments by the end of 2010, that is to say, the funds that will be drawn up over a five-year period. Repeat, over a five-year period. The period of repayment shall not exceed 25 years from the date of conclusion of the individual credit agreement or the date of issue of the individual debt securities. All the costs associated with the borrowing of the credit shall not exceed 0,2 % of the value of the principal of the individual credit. The interest rate of the loans must be comparable to the interest rates of comparable loans to that of the State guarantee. The cost of issuing debt securities shall not exceed 0,15% of the nominal value of the principal. In accordance with the proposed Article 6 of this Law, in the event of a loan obligation, a loan guarantee contract shall be concluded on behalf of and at the expense of the Republic of Slovenia, by the Minister responsible for the finance, or by the person authorised by the Government, and also if the debt is issued. The Government proposes that this proposal be adopted by law. We have explained our views in our working bodies, and we are ready to answer certain questions that still exist, and we have already given explanations. Regardless of the explanations, there are still different interpretations of what is actually going on. I hope that we will have this opportunity at the end, and for now we propose that this national assembly accept this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u3	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! At its 16th urgent meeting on 26.1., the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for obligations Dars d.d. from loans and issued debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the national highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia amounting to EUR 30 million, 750 thousand, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the national assembly for treatment and reception following an emergency procedure. The meeting was attended by representatives of the government, the Minister of Finance, representatives of Darsa and the Ministry of Transport, as well as a legislative legal service, which also gave its opinion. Initially, it was stressed that the adoption of this law would allow for the conclusion of guarantee contracts with lenders or the issuance of a guarantee declaration, which is a condition for the rental of credits or the issuance of bonds for the realisation of motorway sections under the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. So far, 3 000 281 billion euros have been used to build highways. The purpose of this guarantee, or this guarantee law, adds an additional thousand and 30 billion to the end, and a further 779 million money will be needed until the 572km highway is completed. This will close the financial structure. If we quickly round these numbers, we can see that 576 kilometers of highway network will cost 5 billion 90 million euros, which is roughly €9 million 864 per kilometer of road or if we turn it into tolars, it would be about 2 billion 365 million tolars of such a road. Various opinions were presented in the debate. The most important question was whether Dars would be able to repay these loans or whether the State would have to assume the actual role of marriage by covering these loans itself. On the other hand, the question was also raised as to the price of implementation, such as the costs of Darsa, the toll collection system, whether it would allow such credits to be covered from tolls to cover these loans satisfactorily. Finally, members of the committee, mainly from coalition parties, to the proposed law or method of construction of motorways, expressed support. The construction of a motorway network is extremely important for the entire country and, in this respect, the urgent procedure for adopting proposed legal solutions is fully justified. The discussers expressed their support for the revised method of financing the implementation of the motorway programme, in particular taking into account the need to finance state and other roads and railway infrastructure through budgetary means. The government's decision to finance the construction of motorways through credit is also acceptable from the point of view of shifting the financial burden to a longer period. Roads, whose construction represents a large and lasting investment, will also use future generations, so it is right to transfer part of this burden to them through toll payments. I'd like to re-emphasize. We always had, and in the discussion, we wondered who would repay these loans, or the taxpayers. Of course, we believe the government and their calculations that the burden of paying these loans will be borne by road users, not by taxpayers. This was also supported by this proposal and the amendment of the Committee to Article 1 was adopted. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended amended proposal is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended proposal is an integral part of this report and I propose to the National Assembly that it adopts the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Starman. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. It's a nice day in here! The proposed law giving the state of Dars an agreement to guarantee the rental of a good billion euro of loans or the issue of bonds is certainly a turning point in financing the construction of motorways. The question that opens up is whether this change is for the better or for the worse. The opposition, which for more than ten years managed a system of financing the construction of motorways with a significant share of budget money, claims that the programme is at risk. We feel the opposite. With the change in funding proposed by the Government, the motorway programme adapts to the changed market situation, which allows for a different model of financing the construction of motorways. The guarantee to rent credits and bonds will be designed to build those motorways that are still missing in our system and that are also urgently needed. Of these, probably a very important highway from Maribor to Pinc, which will relieve the inhabitants of Lenart, Gornje Radgone and other places along this road of the transit of heavy goods vehicles. The conclusions of the previous government that the Mooring Highway should be built by the end of 2008 are good. Therefore, the last obstacle to the accelerated construction of motorways in the area will be removed with the guarantee and agreement to rent credits. This is certainly a development opportunity that we must not miss. It should also be noted that the completion of the upper and lower motorways should be completed as soon as possible. The first is particularly important for tourism transit, which is growing year after year, and the Zgornjesavski valley will open up new development opportunities. We will finally connect Novo mesto with Ljubljana in a modern way with the lower highway, which is also crucial for the development of the industry there. With regard to the relatively high amount that we are considering today, it must be said that this is indeed higher compared to previous packages of guarantees and consensus. However, it is necessary to know that this time the Ministry of Finance has prepared a single package for the next three years covering all motorways that will be under construction during this period. This is something new, as was the old practice when we adopted guarantees and consensus laws in the National Assembly after several times a year for smaller amounts. In this respect, this new practice, which shows the ability to plan public finances in the long term, should be commended. Slovenia is certainly a transit country and we accept this role because we are aware of the importance of European cooperation. Of course, we rightly expect the users of our infrastructure to contribute a fair share for its use. The bill before us is good and with it we will ensure stable financing for the construction of motorways and the timely completion of motorway sections. We will therefore support the proposal of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Guilty. Mag. Milan M. Cvikl will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u8	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, Slovenia and Slovenia! As we said on the day before the holiday of Slovenian culture on the first of the two laws, with Janša-Bayuk-Božič's huge debt to the state for 247 billion already said, we continue to build motorways. However, it should be carefully planned, carefully financed and implemented. This will no longer be possible. Because if we Members have the right to speak, let us, ladies and gentlemen, even though the truth about the huge debt hurts to make our criticism of this proposal. We're not against speeding up the highway. However, we do not agree with the new, wrong and irresponsible policy of financing the construction of motorways. Let us make it clear once again, instead of making money from the European budget as grants, today the government of Mr Janša tells the European Union: Slovenia is a rich country, Slovenia does not need grants, Slovenia will rather be in debt and we will make sure that taxpayers return this if Dars cannot repay this debt on his own. Today, you will legally allow Dars to repay $247 billion. To everyone in this room, it is clear to the ministers that Dars himself will not be able to return it. That is why we are indebted today on behalf of Slovenian taxpayers. Instead of getting grants, we build highways on chalk. We are indeed authorized by the Slovenians and Slovenians to do so. This law introduces a new policy of financing the construction of motorways without allowing for an expert debate on the advantages and disadvantages of the new policy. The problems it causes are quite something. Since we have a finance minister here today, let us focus on the effects of why he prefers to talk to European bankers instead of convincing the other European finance ministers that it is right for Slovenia to obtain grants for the rest of the motorway cross. We have been fully entitled to this since 1 May 2004. The Minister of Finance doesn't want that. I wonder why. Is it the fear of increased control required by the European Union's financed highway programme? Or is he simply afraid of breaking the word he gave to European bankers, that they would soon receive $247 billion of credit? I hope he'll explain that to us. Second. A new way of financing the construction of highways will not accelerate the construction, but it will only irritate it. That is why former finance ministers have not allowed such a huge debt. No, the former finance ministers, in difficult budgetary negotiations, assured Mr Transport Ministers that most of the money for the construction of motorways was provided from the state budget. Not for 2005, not for 2006, not for 2007, and also for 2008, 2009 the ministers did not confirm this, and Mr Bajuk and Mr Bozič have not been able to convince Mr Janša that it is the right way to build motorways from the state budget. On the contrary. Mr Janša tricked them by adding more than 36 billion dollars of extra money to the military and police, while Mr Bajuk and Christmas forced them into an untransparent and enormous debt. It is a pity that I have reminded them that Mr Zhagar, and since recently also Mr Damjan, has sent them together with Mr Bajuk to Brussels to obtain grants. Today you will confirm the guarantee of a huge debt. I hope that the government will explain to us what it is doing before deciding on this. However, I would like to inform you, Slovenia and Slovenia, that the adoption of today's law is an irresponsible act of the Janša government, because you will have to pay for it yourself. From now on, everyone who works in the economy has more debt on his back than 740 thousand or four net wages. Is this really a real government policy?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u10	Thank you very much and good morning, everyone. The government is also acting irresponsibly in our opinion when, following an emergency procedure, it requires the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Dars, based on a loan for the construction of highways of EUR 30 million, a circus of 250 billion. In a situation where we have to accept overnight guarantees for such credit, the government has placed us in a position to adopt a system of financing for the highway programme for 2006 and beyond and to withdraw at least 30 billion tolars per year. The motorway programme has thus fully placed its dependence on foreign financial resources and its return on our obligations. This refund is entirely dependent on the toll collected, and this is certainly increased, as the existing funds collected benefit only from the repayment of the credits paid and the increased toll depends on whether we provide it with new commitments or at least from the expansion of the range of those who do not pay the tolls so far. Both are not simple political actions, and we will have to accept them again in the National Assembly. Our information also shows that it is realistic to expect to decide on tolls only in a few years because we want an internationally comparable and common usable system in the European Union. In any case, it will be an important economic, developmental and political issue and I am very interested in the views of colleagues and colleagues from the government coalition when we decide on this in a year or two. When we decide on the state loan guarantee for Dars today, we face the following facts after we have already allowed Dars to repay and when he does not have the existing resources to cover his obligations. If we do not agree to the law, Dars may obtain the necessary loans in such a case, but only at a significantly higher interest rate, thereby increasing his obligation and the obligation of taxpayers to pay back only further. If Dars does not receive or receive credits as too expensive and does not accept them, the continuous construction of the road program may be stopped or at least slowed down. Decisions that were still possible on Tuesday to allow partial lending, and partly to apply the possibility of hiring more funds through the European Union, are now being questioned. This is a situation fully objectively illustrated in which the Government has set us up with its decisions in the 2006 and 2007 budget. We stress them in order to ensure that the public will also know what position we are in. Since we want to ensure the continued construction of roads, we cannot oppose the proposals. Their acceptance, however, will have important and urgent consequences for the financial situation of Slovenia, for the obligations of the vehicle owners, perhaps also for the budget and taxpayers. We must stress these facts that in a year or two, when the unfriendly consequences arise, the government will not excuse Members and the decision in the National Assembly. Finally. The government and the Prime Minister always remind us of how bad the former authorities have done. Her conduct is always a welcome excuse for all the bad decisions she makes. Let me use this logic on my own and draw attention to the discussions of the current Minister of Finance, Dr. Bayuk, at a time when we accepted such loans and guarantees in the previous term. Among other things, he said: "We are approaching the Maastricht criteria of 40% debt, sooner or later the time will come when someone in Europe will understand that it is pointless that debts for motorways are not part of the public debt of the Republic of Slovenia." The ministerial address has enriched the Minister's knowledge; it speaks differently after a year, let us hope that he is right this time and that such problems will not arise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr Jože Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Minister with fellow Members, dear Members, dear Members. In the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the liabilities of Dars of the Shareholder Company from credits and issued debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia of EUR 1030.15 million, there is a lot of talk about money, about a lot of money. So let me take a moment to look at and admire the speech of the graphic image of the banknote of the European currency. European currency banknotes draw bridges that are a good representation of what Europe and, of course, Slovenia will become in the future. Connection space and rendezvous area. Of course, it wouldn't be good if we were just connected by money. We citizens of the European Union connect and communicate in different ways, on different communication routes. Even on highways, which are the most rough and most visible form of our communication. The involvement of the Slovenian motorway cross in the European motorway network is therefore strategically linked for the Republic of Slovenia and the countries of the European Union. Unfortunately, not everyone in this country sticks to this. It will soon take two years for the Republic of Slovenia to become a full member of the European Union. We already have some experience, including in the transport field. We note that the frequency of freight traffic at some border crossings has increased dramatically, for example at the international border crossing of the Long Village by almost 300%, which has surprised even the authors of the national highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia, which was last corrected in 2004. We further note that the Republic of Slovenia must urgently speed up the construction of a motorway network to ensure proper internality, in particular inter-regional integration of the country and its proper integration into international road traffic flows. The New Slovenia Group therefore welcomes the record ambitious government proposal for the 2006 annual development and renewal of motorways. Of course, this is logically followed by the provision of adequate financial resources. In the New Slovenia Group, we are confident and trust the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Transport and the whole Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide Darsu with the provision of a law that will enable him to rent the envisaged loans or issue debt securities worth a good billion euros, together with the investment transfers provided from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, to ensure optimal closure of the financial structures for the construction of the planned motorway sections. Dars has already implemented the state highway programme 49% with credit money. After this guarantee has been issued, this share will be up to 54%. The government's concern, as well as this national council, is not only highways, but also state roads. The current situation on state roads is such that according to grave calculations their recovery requires 800 billion Slovenian tolars. The conditions in international financial markets are such that the adoption of the guarantee law is currently the most favourable solution. In doing so, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall ensure that respect for all key elements of public finances is not jeopardised by the adoption of this guarantee law. In the New Slovenia Group, we are concerned about the fact that today, by collecting tolls, we do not reach a two-thirds potential buyer. This data shows that the toll collection system is not effective and is not yet fair. We therefore support the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in its efforts to introduce electronic tolls in the free traffic flow throughout the motorway network. By regulating an effective toll system, the system of borrowing credits for the construction of the motorway system will be sustainable. We are convinced of this, so we will also support the law in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Mr Franz Kangler will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Dear Members, Members, representatives of the government, representatives of Darsa! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposal for a guarantee bill for Darsa's obligations of EUR billion. We have a clear guarantee of finance and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that it is a matter of borrowing credits, where transparency comes first in relation to the mentioned Article 2 and some other data. The law ensures through the financial structure that the borrowing of credits will be repaid and a financial resource provided through the collection of tolls through the rationalisation of certain services in Dars. Surely we also expect that the government will also spend much more on its own resources in the preparation of budgetary resources for the coming years, budgetary resources for some of the necessary sections. In order to take credit to complete the highway programme in the Republic of Slovenia, it is not only a beautiful farce, but it is essential to ensure that the places in the Republic of Slovenia, both in the east and in the west and in the south, are evenly and regionally developed through the highway programme. The motorway also means more coherent regional development for those places that are slightly away from the centre itself. Some of the data already presented during this week in giving consent to the acquisition of the credit mentioned in the National Assembly show that Slovenia is a major road infrastructure, a country through which large quantities of goods, passengers from both the south and the north, are transiting from the east to the west. Some roads are very busy during the tourist season, from Šentilj to Zagreb, some roads are fully loaded throughout the year, if we just look at some data on how many freight vehicles are transiting from east to west via Murska Sobota, via Lendava, some other places, indicating the urgent need to ensure such a financial structure so that we can also implement the highway program according to the programmes. We must not neglect that some of the opposition's observations on this site do not mean that it is not a single drawdown of these funds at this level, but that funds can be drawn in multiple instalments by the end of 2010. I would also like to stress this by stressing that there is a possibility that some programmes and projects for drawing funds from certain European funds can also be carried out in parallel with these projects and programmes. Therefore, we believe that it is also necessary to approach electronic tolls as soon as possible in Dars, to provide a financial source to pay for these obligations and in some way to ensure fair toll collection for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of where they come from and where they come from. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will fully support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, government representatives, ministries! Before yesterday, the National Council agreed to Darsa's loan. This was the first act that we have made clear in the Slovenian National Party that it is only a confirmation of what will happen today. Whatever happens today, at least the Slovenian National Party insists on the facts already stated firmly, unchanged, to the comma and to the word. The Slovenian national party claims that we are in breach of the agreement, the laws adopted in this national assembly. Firstly, we are overestimating the projected indebtedness of the State, the Republic of Slovenia, from the agreed 3% of the gross social product to 4% of the gross social product. Secondly, we claim that Article 33 of the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets, which states [[Quote]] : "The scope of the new State guarantees issued under the Law on guarantees for the credit obligations of domestic legal persons shall not exceed the total amount of the principals of 150 billion tolars in 2006. The pledge we're giving right now is 250 billion tolars. Even if we disperse it, we don't know the amount of what's called the capital right now. In addition, Dars is already in charge of a billion and a half euros, which is about 400 billion tolars, totalling about 600 billion tolars in debt or, according to the Slovenian National Party, even a third of the national budget. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the development of railways, the development of air transport and the development of maritime transport is equally important in addition to roads, which will lead to difficulties in the development cycle that we will deal with. And then, colleagues and colleagues, there will be no more conditions for any guarantee. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced, despite the Ministry of Finance's assertions, that at the time when the State will give the State guarantee to Dars, Dars' debt will become a public debt. I claim, both on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and in my own, that if I go to my friend Boštjan Zagorec for the wedding, the moment I sign the credit agreement as a wedding is my debt. And please, I don't want to hear that Dars is a stock company and it's not a public debt. Yes, the moment we do, when you accept the guarantees. The Slovenian National Party, I repeat, is convinced of these violations and in the Slovenian National Party, I repeat, we will not be among those who will owe this country to disability. On us, no matter where we are or who we are, no one will point to the Slovenian National Party. Article 3 of the Act states, listen carefully, "...if Dars does not settle the liability for the leased loans and securities issued, the Republic of Slovenia will settle the maturity instead of Dars." We'll pay, the state will pay. Whose money? Once again, I call on and expect data: the levels of principals, the level of the guarantee given, the amounts of the guarantee given, and in particular what it says here, which measures this state of Dars, the Ministry of Transport and Finance will ensure that it will be able to settle this debt with tolls and others, I do not know what measures it will take. The Slovenian national party will not delegate the State of the Republic of Slovenia to disability.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr Willi Rezman will present the views of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u18	Thank you very much. With regard to consent and the guarantee concerning these loans, in the past days and today a number of such fascinating, pathetic words and warnings have been heard. Perhaps this is understandable because we are during the celebration of a cultural holiday. However, in our Group of Members, we think that today is really not so much about artistic impressions, but rather about pragmatic attitudes, about what we will offer Slovenia and Slovenia in the coming years to improve their position, in particular with regard to road accessibility and the potential development of their areas. The second part of the debate is being held today and the finals are still being followed today. And we can't risk anything too much to predict what the outcome will be. We hope to take the risk primarily because of this, although it is likely to hear some more hectic objections, because we all, at least in words, support the construction of motorways. Because we all support the development of those regions that are not yet above average today compared to some other regions in us, which are already equipped with highways and other roads. We all support the possibility of finding alternative resources. But from this possibility to realization, you have to make some way, and in the meantime, nothing shows a step in the same place. Why do we support this? We judge that we probably all know what the possibilities are for providing resources for means of building motorways. And we also know what we can expect in the coming years. Of course, we base our behavior on what the government, Dars, equips us with. And if we were to be poorly equipped and the calculations turned out to be wrong, of course, we would have to put the accounts out later. At this point, however, we do not agree that the government, Dars, and the coalition are incarcerated with irresponsibility, as is often the case now in the hall. The own resources we are talking about, in fact, we are only allowing this programme to a greater extent. And that's right. European resources, which are not available at this time, are one of the options that must be pursued where possible in order to achieve this. The private-private partnership, so often mentioned, must probably not be expected to be of a very large extent, most of it is already underway, but also for what could possibly be regulated, we do not have specific guarantees that it will be successful. The budget source, which is one of the possible sources and also the law on the provision of earmarked resources, will be open to us, at least in the DeSUS Group of Members. We believe that the future debate, that is to say, the debate on the budget that is yet to follow in the coming years, is open and we do not reject the possibility that the structure of our budget will also change. We do not support the amendment, which recommends re-half of the guarantee funds. If we supported it, it would mean, in a way, the start of the re-launching of the budget, which we have barely accepted. In particular, we do not accept the slowing down of possible construction. Not on behalf of those for whom many fear now that they will have to pay the debts that will result. The worst thing is if they don't have anything to pay if they stay on edge, if they don't have access, if they don't have cell phones, if the development stops there. And even such bad consequences could be listed if they really happened to slow down or even substantially reject the planned construction. So we are not for slowing down, not for not speeding up construction. Some are already renovating, already reconstructing a built highway years ago when others are preparing for space conferences. These are far behind and must be helped to reach new development opportunities as soon as possible. Therefore, the DeSUS Group will support this guarantee, as it has supported the consensus, and we will also support the plan for the year that we will adopt today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading - a debate on articles and amendments tabled. So far, we have received one amendment, namely the LDS MPs to Article 1. We therefore put to the debate Article 1 and the LDS amendment. Who wants a word? Mr. Squeakle, Mr. Anderlich. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u20	For a little while. The amendment is being tabled because we estimate that, instead of Dars being in charge of such a high guarantee, the reduction of the guarantee would require Dars to provide, together with the Minister of Transport, Minister Žagar, Minister Damjan, Minister Bajuk with the remaining resources, mainly from the European budget. This does not prejudge the budgets of the following years, because we will talk about this further. Of course, it clearly gives a message and clearly communicates to the European Union: instead of being in debt, we want grants.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u22	You might ask yourself what we are doing today, or if we need to do so. But given that we have such legislation that we must first give consent and then guarantee, that is what is necessary, and that is why it does. But I would nevertheless like to repeat some things from the preceding point, since we had warned in this Chamber about some unacceptable government moves. I thought we'd get some other explanation today than last time, but nothing. During this dynamic time, it is normal for things to change and for individual political actors to act in a completely different way. If I recall the beginning of September 2004, then at the peak of the campaign, the former opposition champion of the second largest opposition party sparked a violent public controversy over the imprudent indebtedness of the LDS during the transitional rule. Moreover, even to Brussels, he referred, and said that the main observation was in the imprudent indebtedness of the state based on interpretation and that Slovenia, under European national accounts rules, ESA 95, should also include Darsa's debt in the state debt, as it is state-owned and does not belong to non-marketers. And then what happens? The power is being replaced, this same gentleman comes to the government and says that the only solution for this Slovenia, for this programme, is the debt, enormously, without determining how much, to the extent that Dars is obliged to carry out this programme. But he says, let's get you in charge of a billion euros, so Dars can provide the dynamics himself, figure out when he's going to take some credit, where he's going to put it, and eventually the result will be what it's going to be. At the same time, it is pointed out at the previous meeting that this is not the final scope of the debt, but will follow further commitments in the coming years. We asked at the point where we talked about consensus, whether it was possible to provide any assurance as to when this programme would come to a positive level, and what is essential is that these motorways would also create the profit that the state will make, because Dars would pay certain money to the country through concessions, could build everything else, or would impose on Dars to build an additional programme, as the third development axis and other things are called. Of course, there are no such answers. But what bothers me the most is that there is no answer or that no one wants to think about any fact that those, you say, users are going to pay for these highways. But those who use highways today, and even more, also those who buy oil for something else to drive on ordinary roads or farmers for tractors or I don't know what, are paying by law for the provision of dedicated means for the construction of highways, a certain part of the money. We all pay for it. But you say we won't. And that's because we changed the system, we had to replace the so-called petrol tolar with the law on providing dedicated tolars. Indeed, these funds go into the integral budget, and we pay them through the higher price of fuel, they do not go back, as was the case by law, to the construction of motorways, approx. 40 billion a year, but they're for other needs. Where? To make other pre-election promises come true. No, they're not just going to build a state road network, because then that number would be significantly larger because it's not just moved there, it's not just railways, it's going into the budget. Another time. We pay users through tolls, so right now, construction, if you want, and maintenance, so on, highway. And thirdly, we will pay interest because, as experts predict, and those you have hired to justify to you why it is right to change the mode of financing, they say: "The construction of the motorway only with loans is controversial if not morally, but at least financially, the burden of repayment of loans will be passed on to the next governments and the next generation of the population." I don't mind. Of course, this is an intergenerational project and it will take a long time, but with such warnings you do not give some answers why you took these funds out of this programme, because this programme has been sustainable and here write nicely by various columnists and experts, how exactly the national highway construction programme has provided some stable economic growth, some growth of the social gross product, because in fact these investments have had a multiplier impact on all branches of the economy. And this sustainability meant that we provided through this dedicated money so much and so much to build that through the toll or now through concession we got so much money, so much money and so much money on the third hand we owed ourselves. It now departs from this, if I neglect that this does not have the proper basis in law, as the legislature has found that we are moving away from what the National Assembly has adopted, we will talk about this at the 3rd item of today's agenda. I admit, and for the last time, I have said that this amendment is over the finger, as is the level of the debt proposal, completely over the finger, because nowhere in any document can you see, not in agreement, nor in the consent law, nor in the guarantee law, not in the 2006 annual programme, nor in the resolution of the national programme, to build this section at this time and for so much money with these leases or the possibility of renting these loans. You don't find this anywhere, but you give Bianca the authority to draw on the dynamics of these loans. I am sorry that you do not want to give these answers, so it is better to accept a smaller assignment, to grant a smaller commitment, to force Dars to approach the programme rationally, and no one should say that because of such an approach, if we want to do things rationally, we are against the construction of highways. There have been many highways built at this time, they have been built under a programme, and I don't mind changing it, just at the moment we're talking about this national assembly on a proposal from the government, and the government will say that it's accepted by the National Assembly, that we owe the next generation without clear frameworks, but it's questionable and controversial. And I'm going back, on time in 2004, I'd really like to see who they are or heard, who are those things that were botched by such a radical change in the position of the then opposition champion. Not to mention all the other things that I believe are wrong in such an approach. However, it is easier, and I say again, if anyone thought that in previous years there were no ideas of greater indebtedness, they would underestimate us, but they would also rather lively performances and comparisons that we have done both with the countries in the West and with the neighbouring country of Croatia, where many are still speaking, that the question is whether or not this highway programme will hold up in the coming years or whether they will be able to repay this or not. And how alive the period before 1991 was when, above all, there was a talk about how much the country was in charge and what things. And now we're going back to the same thing, and I believe the Minister will answer me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you. As various issues arise during the debate, I should like to point out that the government has 45 minutes at its disposal. He can come forward at any time in the debate, with his hand raised, of course, like everyone else. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Clearly, certain things have to be repeated that have already been said on the working bodies. First, with regard to the positions I personally presented in the past and the positions I take today when I am responsible for the Ministry of Finance. Let me tell you that at the time that I took this position - and the quote is correct - I did not have, nor did the entire Slovenian public have a clear message from the Government, that it had already reached or negotiated in Brussels and Eurostat at that time, that it would be exclusively out of the public finances of Dars' debt, because it had become a stock company, which is 100 % owned by the State, arguing that it has long-term mechanisms of its own, which would not burden public finances if they actually did. The study, which was sent there at the time, also proved this in some way. When I accepted these responsibilities in December 2004, I also had this reviewed. The Eurostat delegation re-examined this matter and came to an inevitable conclusion that Darsa's debt should not in fact be reported as part of the country and that the Government should adopt such decisions as are necessary in order to ensure in the future that all those arguments used by the State, that the European Commission and Eurostat have convinced them that it will actually enforce them in the future. That is also our purpose. If we want, and I think there is a great consensus about this and no one wants these guarantees to burden the Slovenian budget, we just need to ensure that the extent of the system that actually creates these own resources for Dars - and this is the toll - is that the volume of the toll will actually be the same as that to ensure. As you know, in the past a different system has been designed than we have today - we went into an open system. Today, the numbers are just on the table, we can barely hide, and it's barely actually 64% of what the toll should be. This is an open question and a challenge not only for the executive branch of power, but also for this national assembly. And in the short term, the Ministry of Finance intends to propose to the government - and I hope that the government will also propose to the National Assembly - a different approach to resolving this issue. We know, and it's been said several times that a long-term solution is supposed to be via satellites. I myself am a little skeptical about this, because before the European Union actually comes to such an agreement that it will certainly be functioning such a system that looks very beautiful on paper and would be most super effective, I think it will take a little longer than it did in 2008. If this is the case, then we must provide a different system, and in this sense also of short-term nature, in this sense there will also be a proposal on which we are currently working. So it is not a change of attitude, but a logical consequence of the fact that the Slovenian state actually convinced itself, but also the professional public abroad and the bodies of the European Union, that Darsa's indebtedness is not part of the public financial system and, of course, is assured that he will have his own resources. But it's not just a toll problem. I think it is also important, and we are working now, to make a thorough review of the concession contract and the agenda contract on the basis of the contract signed, because we currently think Dars could have more resources for investments than it actually does, but this is the subject of the current operation, we will report in the future and before we come up with the draft budget - the 2007 rebalancing and the 2008 draft budget. These are the key things. I think that the doubts that appear are legitimate, but there is only a little confusion at this presentation. I would like to go back to specific historical data, which are completely comparable, and you can check them out and more. And the fact is that by 31.12.2005, the Slovenian State had implemented at least part of this highway programme of €3.7 billion. To achieve this, it was used for EUR 1.9 billion in guarantees. If we take this into account, the debt on the basis of this realization was 52.51.8%, which is said to be practically negative 52%. With this proposal that we are coming today, we hear and are saying that there is a fundamental change. Worst of all, if nothing will actually happen again if there is no effect, from the review of these treaties that the state has with Darsa, if we do not succeed, no European funds together - and I think we can, we hope, for now, we are only 24 million euros, and in 2005 - I hope that Dars will actually respect the rules of the game that Europe is setting up in such a way that we can draw on these funds. But this means a great deal of attention on the part of all, including this national assembly, that such a thing will not happen as it did in the past. However, at least in 2005 we drew something. If nothing is going to draw on it, if there are no consequences, if there is no change in the volume of tolls, then in the worst case, we will reach a debt of 60% instead of 52%, as it is now. However, I am also sure that this will not happen, because it is possible at the same time to refinance debt as it is, and with new contracts, with particularly favourable contracts, which are today possible in view of the situation in international financial markets, I am sure that this is feasible. Well, it's incomprehensible to say and repeat what happened here, some additional assignment. Sir, if you are going to look at the resolution adopted in the past and should have provided 37.8 billion tolars already in 2004, I must tell you again that this part of the resolution was not respected in 2004 and was not respected at 1.3 billion tolars. Why not? This is in explanation of the 2004 final account that you have already dealt with and I will not open it. For 2005, the resolution envisaged 39.1 billion tolars of appropriations from the budget for the implementation of this programme. The 2005 budget, which was adopted by the previous government, was estimated at 33.3 billion, that is to say, it clearly, consciously and deliberately anticipated less resources than the resolution actually required. The balance hasn't touched it. This government has not changed this work and it has actually come to 6.1 billion less resources than envisaged in the resolution. So here, too, we are not responsible for this because this has already been done in the past and on the basis of arguments that I do not know, but I can tell you and repeat what arguments we had before us when we proposed the 2006 budget, where we have also deliberately reduced the budget for the construction of motorways, amounting to 19 billion, 19 billion less money than the resolution had planned, which, together with 15 billion, is said to be with the 21 billion envisaged, and the 15 that still come through VAT, there is still some significant amount of public funds for the implementation of the programme, either coming from the budget directly or from the VAT return, to the extent that these funds are devoted to investments. However, for 2007, we also anticipate a reduction of 12.7, but of course there is not a budget yet in 2008, but we are predicting 16.6 billion resources in the system, which, given VAT, might mean a reduction of 3.6 billion resources, under a resolution. So if you take everything that's supposed to happen, which is supposed to be such a sinful proposal by the current government, we're talking from 35 to 37 billion dollars in recovered funds. Ladies and gentlemen. It has always been planned, it has always been planned, even when this resolution, which we are now talking about, will increase, of course not by 247 billion, as we now propose, but by 210, at least by 210. Therefore, this surprise is only understandable in the context of urgent political talk; otherwise, at least in our belief, it is ensured that this programme can be implemented to the end on the basis of its own resources, with different volumes of tolls, with revised and revised treaties between the State and Darsa and, of course, with smart debt refinancing and lending now that the possibilities in international financial markets have not been more favourable, historically, and I do not believe that they will continue for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u25	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Blackach has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you very much! Dear colleagues, others present. It is true that today this debate is unnecessary and meaningless and is populist at the lowest possible level. But, ladies and gentlemen of the LDS, you have tabled this amendment, all that was said in this matter was said on Tuesday, and since you tabled it, it is necessary to repeat it again, because obviously we are not up enough in this high assembly to get enough of what we hear once. This amendment essentially means encouraging the highway programme, if it is adopted. For it means nothing less than what Mr Potrč rightly stated, than if we accept it, Dars will be able to rent EUR 500 million of credit on the market, of course under substantially more expensive conditions than if the state guarantees such sum with its guarantee. This is, of course, also for those who have tabled this amendment, known, which makes the matter so much worse. We do not oppose construction, it has been said, but a change of policy in the area of highway construction. However, I object to the fact that, years and years after such a policy as we have witnessed in recent years in this area, we have been driving on bad roads instead of driving on highways, and that our grandchildren would be discussing in this national assembly what version of the highway route. I'm really opposed to that. I think that it is necessary to do this once, to deal seriously with this problem and to ensure that highways are built as quickly as possible in the Republic of Slovenia under the most favourable conditions. And these two laws allow this, because the conditions that we have on the table today are significantly more favourable terms for borrowing credits than those that you have, of course, successfully, that the issue would not be so huge and not look so big, but in total it is significantly larger than that billion - we have heard several times today, a little less than 2 billion you have accepted in the past. It is said that these more favourable conditions allow for a more rational construction or completion of the highway programme in the Republic of Slovenia. 516 kilometers of highway. I'm not sure that much more money in the past has been built for so many miles. I'm not sure. And here I think that the main point of what we have talked about is that the great task of those who are entrusted with this task, with the care of a good host and with a rational approach, taking into account all possible sources that we do not give up, far from that, we all know that the perspective 2007-2013 also enables us to draw on this segment in a different way, but for which we will have to make our own efforts. But this law, as proposed, does not limit it and does not prevent it. I think that any additional words are unnecessary and that such an extensive programme cannot be approached in the way we have seen in the past when the matter has been resolved by drops. I think it is right that once in the package the matter was thrown onto the table to see how difficult it is, how difficult it is and how it can be financed. This is why once again: this amendment is not only unnecessary, it is very harmful. It is harmful - and if I allow myself to be populist then too - for our taxpayers, because acceptance of such an amendment would mean an actual substantial boost to the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. Because we're supposed to be talking about this today, this particular amendment. Unfortunately, we are talking about everything else, but that is the way it is in this national assembly. Usually those who most point to procedural issues and at each session raise their hand as to how their rights have been violated are in violation of these rules themselves. So if we talk about this amendment, it is bad, it is harmful, and if it is adopted, it will significantly undermine the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, because it will only allow it to be significantly more expensive under the law we passed on Tuesday, so that Dars will be able to borrow on other financial segments without the State guarantee, which means that these loans will be substantially more expensive than they will be with the State guarantee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Petan has the floor to prepare Mr Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! So, I will not support this amendment anymore because if we support this amendment, then we have to change the programme, in this programme it has to be clearly written which roads we will take, which roads we will put off, which roads we will put off, which roads we will extend to a far future, perhaps in this sense, as it was clear before 2000 that we will build the port of the highway there by 2014, 2015. Thank God that's changed. And that is why I will not support this amendment, even because I am in favour of faster construction of motorways, because I am sure that the construction of the missing motorways is still at the heart of development in that area. And that's why I can't be insolvent and talk, but I'm in charge of building highways, and I'd put in new sections, but with less money. You know, these are fairy tales, this may be science fiction, although I like science fiction, but in highways I don't want to fantasize, even if it's called scientific. It's just that without money the roads can't be, everything else is pure demagogy. And speaking of demagogies today, I would mention another one that I think is very important, has been heard many times, but I don't think it's harmful. Here are some fears about increased tolls. So let's do a little analysis of the problem of these tolls, the tolls collected, and how much is the potential for the tolls collected. After some analysis of this toll system, as we now have, we take less than 50% of the possible, I'm talking about possible; and what I see on the ground, at least at our end of Styrian, I think is much less than 50%. We had a structured closed toll collection system, but one or some of the Februarys from LDS and Dars wanted to drive free in that area, wanted to, and we opened the system, and now we have a shit nest. This was frivolous, harmful, unresponsible, but now, from that political option, they point to the current political current authority that the tolls will have to be encouraged, because we don't pick them up as much as we could, but because foreign trucks are avoiding our highways, so now they're scaring those who have cooked it so that this government, with this policy, which is a little different, will have to raise toll prices. She's a little different, gentlemen. Trucks from the East avoid paying tolls, completely justified, I will say, but who would not avoid, if possible, it is allowed, leave the highway, barely come to Slovenia's Bistrica, go after an old regional by Vrhol, Beating and have two options: whether they go to the highway to pay half or go even past Konjice to Celje, and completely avoid one part of the toll payment. How much money is that, I wouldn't explain to you because those locals are going to tell you how many trucks are driving, how many trucks are driving by every day, and they're talking about closing this part of the road today. If we had a closed system, as the European Union had predicted, I had personally pointed out at least thirty-nine times in such discussions what we are doing - the front of the toll station, the open system, but the European Union has long since adopted an order that we should pay as much as you use the highway. And they all told me, but it didn't do anything. The mistakes of the former authorities need to be corrected. And also because we don't pick up the toll that we could and should have, these tolls are so high. Besides, this system is ineffective, and it's unjust. On the Styrian part of the highway from Šentilj to Trojan, we only pay everything in Slovenian Konjica. We do have a little discount, but every vehicle, if it takes 5 kilometers to the Dramal, has to pay; but in between are sections where they drive for free. We're the only ones who have to pay. And sometimes I get a little pressure when I listen to this demagogy, how we're going to have to auction tolls now if we're going to rent this loan. Thank God we hire him, that the suburban leg will not be built in 2014 but that we will build something else on the third axis that is necessary. Now that I am not wasting my time, I would like to ask another question to the representatives of the government, perhaps the ministries. In fact, this demagogy is slowly taking place. Thus, we also have a very large title in one of the important printed media today, "Adijo the Third Development Axis!" This is because we did not support the LDS amendment, which would reduce it from one billion euros to 500 million. That's why I want to -- not for my own sake, I know that this is a demagogy, but that we all hear whether it's true that because we didn't support this amendment, the third development axis is going to go away, which is, of course, a part of the highway. I know that's not true, but the opposite is easy. But I want to hear it. If that is true, then I would like to hear it too, but if that is not true, please clarify this once, how much does this third development axis have to do with this amendment if we reduce it from one billion euros to 500 million euros; if it does, how much does it have? I'd like to ask for that answer and thank you in advance for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Testen has the floor. Get Mr. Hwauc ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Members and Members of the Government! The last time we discussed the agreement to borrow credits for Dars, some Members voted in favour of the amendment and also in favour of the law as a whole, which is incomprehensible and illogical from my point of view. It follows that for a substantial reduction in the amount of money, a complex range of motorways should be made, as is the case in the programme. I think so, too, and in our Group of Members, we are convinced that other solutions, including European funds, including public and private partnerships, need to be sought, and that there is a great task for the government and ministries to do as much as possible, so that the guarantee or credit will be significantly smaller. There was also much talk about ZIPR and the guarantee. ZIPRO foresees annual debt, ZIPRO - the law on budget implementation, foresees an annual debt of 150 billion, while the guarantee law, which I hope to confirm today, foresees about 247 billion. However, it is necessary to know, as the Minister has already explained many times, that this is a statutory law and that the guarantee will benefit over a period of 5 years is from 2006 to 2010, and that the ZIPRO will not be compromised. But there's one more thing I'd like to say. As an interested working body, we have also considered the guarantee, as well as the consensus, on the Committee on Budgetary Control and Public Finance. I must say that I am concerned about some of the statements made by the President of the Commission, but they are related to the appointment of the Minister of Finance as the European Finance Minister of the Year. And I'm going to quote one sentence from Mr. President of the Commission saying, "Mr. Minister of Finance has become the European Minister, the European Finance Minister of the Year, you know, if Mr. Gaspari went to London in 1999 and said, my dear gentlemen, I'm going to be in charge of a billion euros or I'm going to guarantee Dars a billion euros, he would be more than a finance minister of the year." In this regard, I would like to say the following: that Slovenia should have a few ministers of the year if it were to hold this theory. In 1998 and 1999, in several tranches, we made a guarantee of EUR 100 million. In 1998 and 1999, we gave guarantees for motorways. As a result, we should also have a European minister. I also think that other countries in debt could get a minister. I am surprised at the activity and, given the persistence of Mr Squill, that he has not already been nominated for any prize or for some name of the year at European level. I think it might already be or they don't recognize him. I think you could at least be the minister of conjecture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u32	Very short. I am pleased that Mr Testen has, of course, said what we all know in this Chamber. We all know there aren't many bankers who wouldn't reward the Minister of Finance if they came instead of getting grants to Brussels for loans. That is the whole point, and therefore, my fellow Member, who is also the head of the supervisory committee of one of the municipalities if your mayor said he would be in charge of a tenth of this sum - what would you say to him? We'd reward him, or we'd ask him how he'd get it back. And that's what I'm talking about. What you've been saying, many of you, and above all, Mr Minister, you've only talked about everything about the fact that this Darsa project is only sustainable if it gets money from the budget. The ministers did not guarantee this, and therefore this is no longer a self-financing project, but it is a project that will have a big hole, and that is why, of course, European statistics will still have a problem removing this from public debt. These are the facts, these are the numbers. Or maybe Mr. Secretary knows more than he knows how to deal with, but that's what he has to show, not us.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr Hvauc has the floor to prepare Mr Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not support the LDS amendment alone for two reasons. The first is that I don't think such a proposal is really serious, and I have a feeling that someone has prepared it to collect points and that they can perform in this box and, I don't know, steal our time. The other, which is more serious, is that we are actually blocking the construction of the highway system in the Republic of Slovenia because it reduces funds on the one hand, on the other, it does not talk about which sections we will not build or move to a future, and it does not offer any alternative resources, except for some demogic proposals to go to bureaucrats in Europe and take what is waiting for us on the table there. About whether it was necessary to build motorways or even roads in Slovenia, I was able to convince myself yesterday, when some Members went to Koroška, to Prevalje to the football tournament and we made our way from various parts of Slovenia to these remote and remote places and we were able to see for ourselves, not only to build roads in Pomurje or to build the Pyrna highway from Šentilj to Gruškov, but that if we are looking only northeastern Slovenia, there are areas where they are actually cut off from the world. And when some people told me that they prefer to travel to Ljubljana through a neighbouring country, in fact, my conviction that they are really cut off from the world was even stronger, and as a result, my belief is that we must continue to build roads even more firmly. If we are talking about building highways at some state level, we can compare such a project to building a residential house in a private life. We have two options for honest and ordinary citizens: whether we build by means of simple means, by means of earnings, we count on any parental grants or any uncle and build a house for 20 years, we have an unfinished object in between that does not perform our functions, or we test our capabilities and determine how much we can owe, and we go to the project and in some foreseeable relatively short time we solve this problem and we start using it as soon as possible. And it's like the highways. We have come to the conclusion that we need this as soon as possible because of the changed situation on the transport market or on our roads where traffic is increasing, and we have also come to the point that it is important to build highways as soon as possible, so that we can redirect traffic to motorways and start to pick up the toll as soon as possible. If we are talking about guarantee, even in the worst possible scenario, we should not forget that it is state property, we are not talking about guarantees for some private projects, but actually for a purely 100% state property, which will remain so. Finally, the demagogic proposals to build directly or to finance the construction directly from the budget lead to some conclusion, whether today, if we want to build highways, we will immediately burden taxpayers, immediately and strongly, or theoretically allow it to be at least partially necessary if there is any difficulty in returning the loan, we may burden taxpayers somewhere in the distant future. And I think that this second option is certainly better because we said that this is not a one-generation project, but a number of generations, so, once again, I will support the guarantee law itself, and I will not support the amendment in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u35	Mr. Janc has the floor. Get Mr. Zagorac ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members of the government, President Darsa, colleagues and colleagues! On Tuesday, we discussed much in the National Assembly about this amendment, today again. He must have been so invested, perhaps for one reason at all, that this could be discussed if there were no such amendment, we know that it is a quick procedure, there should be no discussion story. That is why we repeat, from Tuesday to today, the same story draws again, the same debate, the same debate. Well, after all, it's an important topic. Of course, I cannot support this amendment for many reasons. One is certainly the one, because it is simply insurmountable because it is "on the finger" because it shows only a reduction in the guarantees, but does not show where we will reduce the program, in Prekmurje, in Dolenjska, anywhere. In short, simply insolvent, as one of the colleagues said, we put it on our finger. The amendment to put 'on the finger' is a pretty irresponsible job, whoever puts it in this House. I am sure that there is no Member among us who does not wish to complete the motorway programme as soon as possible. This is necessary for Slovenia, needed for the regions it connects, and for the faster development of this Slovenia I think we are already late, but not that we will not complete it as soon as possible with this guarantee amount. I believe that certain areas, specifically I think of Dolenjska, New Town, have excellent technological development, it has everything it needs - it has no road links. And this is certainly a major handicap in today's world for the faster development of this part of Slovenia, and I believe it is similar in Prekmurje, etc. And this completion, as soon as possible, is certainly a necessity of Slovenia and a need for faster development of Slovenia. We all know that where there is a highway program, the cross, there is also the possibility of developing regions, municipalities, much faster. Unfortunately, where it does not appear, we go back or stand on the same denominator. And that is certainly why the story we are talking about, the third development axis, is necessary for the continuation of this story when it's over. And before this highway program ends in Slovenia, we can count on those who think a lot and we are very dependent on the third development axis to make this turn. Surely, alternative sources of funding for this programme are urgently needed. The opportunity this Slovenia has and will receive is probably a great deal in Dars to take advantage of this opportunity, and this also shows the government, Parliament and Slovenian public that it has been successful in drawing on these resources. What if we don't, and then we extend the road program for another year or two? Then we will all again criticise that this programme has not been implemented in accordance with the timetable, that it has not adhered to certain tasks that we have accepted in the national assembly and in the government, and that we will then be criticised again, and that is why it is therefore right that this option is offered, it is incumbent on the government, and particularly on Dars, to keep up with the pace he has set in order to complete this programme. [[...]] And this is with this amendment proposed by colleagues, certainly a way back and in short an unserious matter. As far as the use of these funds is concerned. But here is certainly my thought or one serious one that Dars will know with a proper, cost-effective approach, that this price will be operationally competitive, cost-effective, and that this resource may be with as few anaks as possible, because these annexes on this programme have been kind of a constant to do everything here that he can do to save certain resources that certain operators sometimes use a little bit. [[...]] That's what I think is very important. As for the return of this loan, which will certainly be leased, it is certainly also a more orderly toll story, which we have already talked a lot about, that it is unfair, that it is unfair, that it is not equal to all users. Some people don't know what the toll is, but they use it, and others we know very well. This has already been discussed on the committee in Parliament, and I believe that this programme will be implemented as soon as possible. Whether this will be 2008 or not, this depends also on the services in charge of this, but I hope that it will be fair to all users of the road programme and that more money will also be raised through this same toll programme, which will then be allocated to the payment of this kind of debt, which the state or Dars will have to pay back. The cost of each loan is certainly the same or different. Today's financial market allows, in my humble knowledge, optimally good debt conditions, because there are sufficient resources on the market, both of them and of different ones. And it is normal that this can also be used to minimise this cost, because competition, when it gives the guarantee to the State, is certainly an ideal condition for as little as possible repayment costs. And I believe that it will be the Ministry of Finance, Transport and surely Darsa's experts who will use all these options that are available and thus come to the best possible cost, as far as the return of these loans is concerned. In short, the amendment, which I repeat, is not serious, is not responsible and, above all, in the same breath, we would support the highway programme and, on the other hand, we would give less money for it. Ladies and gentlemen, without the money provided, this road programme cannot be completed. And if this is not serious and responsible, then I wonder why there is so much in this, I will say, the unreality in this amendment that you have given my colleagues, and I hope that they may say in the course of the debate that, in fact, the government and the coalition have the right to support it, because we are doing what Slovenians and Slovenians rightly expect - this is, as soon as possible, the completion of the highway programme in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Veršnik. Further reported to read them, because some of you ask when you will be on your turn, are Mr Lahovnik, Milan Petek, Preseknik, Potrč, Jerovšek, Anderlič, Miro Petek, Mr Pukšič and Žnidaršič. Mr. Zagorac, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u38	Thank you for your words, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! I hope that in three years, when that hot month of pre-election campaign comes, we will not listen in the various media or even in this national assembly that the country has built so many and so many kilometres of highway in its mandate. Because the fact is, it will be built by Slovenians and Slovenians themselves. Alone, at least four times its share. Firstly, because they are filling the budget that the government is squeezing in the area of highway construction and the Ministry of Transport. Second, because they're guaranteeing the loan Dars will rent and we already know they'll pay it off on their own today. Thirdly, they pay the toll when the highway is built, and fourthly through a gas tolar, through which some money is also flowing to build highways. Therefore, please, Slovenians and Slovenians will build roads in this country on their own, and the country will not help them much or anything essential. I have heard words that this is a strategic plan through the European Union, that it is a very important strategic plan that will mark the corridors. Yes, I agree that this is a strategic plan, but I do not agree with the cost of building this strategic plan. There was also some talk about freight traffic - freight transport, for which we in the Slovenian National Party had already proposed that we fill our road, both local and motorways, and that we should put it on the train, and that the railway will have some of it, and we will not need to accept certain guarantees for the railway in this house. Someone even said the government's plan was ambitious. I agree he's ambitious. The loan is also ambitious, but on whose account. It's very easy to be ambitious on a foreign account. It's very difficult to make ambitious plans on your own. And of course, someone mentioned one very important sentence, at least for the Slovenian National Party, when he mentioned the construction of the house. Let's check our abilities. I am not sure that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the competent ministries have actually checked their capabilities in this case. Is the state capable of covering such a loan? In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club, but at the same time we are concerned that this amendment will not be limited to the 6 members of the Slovenian National Party, because before itself the vote of 7.2. at 14.48, when we voted on the country's borrowing and surprisingly I have found that, despite the full mouth of representatives of the Liberal Democracy, how they object to such an obligation, how not good it is, this power of all five of them has been able to press the button against. That's not serious, too, gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr Veršnik has the floor to prepare Mr Lahovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues! I think we all agree to build highways like Noah built his ark. So far, we have moved the construction program from year to year or from period to period. We'll see what the result was. Clearly, relative financial support for this construction was also appropriate, so we know that there are still 576 km of roads to be built today to get under the roof what is actually promised to humans from now on. The amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy seems to me today to be an unrealistic thing in this national assembly. In fact, the amendment wants to halve the guarantees, even though we all know that two days ago we approved Darsa's construction program. Construction has to go on. In this regard, I think we are all united in this National Assembly. Of course, if we want the programme to continue, it is necessary to ensure an adequate level of funds or through this system, as proposed on Tuesday and today, when we ensure that the state guarantees this smooth continuation of construction. Everyone is saying that the road could be built from European resources. Who said or said that they will not be built with European funds? But if we want to draw on European funds, first we need to prepare the materials, all the necessary materials, build the road, finance, and then, clearly, we get these funds refunded. And if we want to ensure that the intensity of construction does not stop, it is essential to provide a permanent source of funding. See, Dars - Dars Guarantee has become independent today because it has received a sufficient amount of basic funds. On the basis of these basic resources, Dars is able to obtain a permanent source of income, which is tolling. I will not talk about the fact that the tolling system is currently inadequate and that there is a need to make great efforts to make the system significantly more efficient and thus, clearly, to obtain significantly greater funds to repay the loan. Look, we Slovenians tend to provide our children with jobs, houses, cars, in short, we want to give them everything. The results from children are different, some are gratefully returning, and others are not. But I'm saying something why we should give the kids everything. It's also about funding a highway. Why should only our generation fund all highways when we know that we have driven half of our productive life span on macadamia, on curves, in short, on impossible roads. Let us, let our children, our craftsmen show that they are capable, and let us also give them some responsibility to feel that driving on these highways is not just from God’s day, but that we needed to make a lot of effort and also the resources of us who are working. I would also say that the system that has been chosen and also explained to the Minister, who was given in Parliament today, ensures that the funds for construction will be used rationally. And I don't have any trouble believing that. That is why I do not support the amendment proposed, but I will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Milan Petek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr President, I must reiterate my regret. Given that there are 248 billion tolls of guarantees, I would expect the Minister to be present while the meeting is under way, or to replace the deputy, which, of course, is the Secretary of State. I have no objection to the director of the Directorate, the perpetrator of the duties, but I think it would be appropriate for some order to be established and for a minister or a secretary of state to be here. If not, it's pretty unserious. Perhaps this also shows the government's attitude towards this national council. Look. Today we are not talking about whether to build highways or not, we all support that. We are talking about how to finance construction, how to finance the construction of a highway network, so that it will be cheaper. If you look at the numbers here, you could see Mr. Finance Minister, but he's not here, you'd see that 33.8 billion dollars were planned for 2005 for Dars in the budget, and then with a rebalance, he was able to reduce it to 19 billion, but if you look at 2006 and all of a sudden just 5.9 billion dollars for Dars. Of course, what happens next? It brings to the National Assembly a law that stipulates that Dars will be heavily indebted, we have already warned about that, and that is the first fact. Second of all, what's most interesting. If you look at the list of projects, then you can see that they are on this list of projects to be built, then you can see that there are three on this list of projects for which the contract was signed at the beginning of this week; either they have a closed financial structure and they do not need this guarantee at all, and the Minister of Finance has given a guarantee for something that has already been signed and will obviously be implemented, or whether the Public Procurement Act is being violated, which clearly stipulates that contracts should not be signed before the financial structure is established. So there's obviously a lot of confusion here. This confusion becomes perfect when we see that on this list there is also the Maribor Road in Celje, on which, if you drive, you will see that it is virtually finished, but obviously the finance minister, who is not here, does not go to the handball or to shop in Celje and Celje does not even know, otherwise he would not be making a guarantee for something that is practically already built. The next thing I would like to point out is that when we talk about the amendment of the Liberal Democracy, we are talking about the need for highways to be financed to a greater extent from cohesion funds and from the budget. If 28% of the funds that Slovenia will acquire in the next financial perspective were to use for the construction of the motorway bank, then today no guarantee would be needed for this purpose. We are talking about a guarantee that will burden every citizen with 125,000 tolls of potential burden. I must say, of course, that I also agree with those who, after all this great indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia last year and after this debt that we are now witnessing, Minister Bajuk certainly deserves the title of Minister of Finance of the Year, and the Slovenians will remember it for decades, when these debts that we now create, cheerfully or less cheerfully, are unfortunately being repaid; those who are younger, probably after some calculations, are stronger than in 2060. So here I think it's right to know that we're talking about how to finance, not whether to build roads or not. And that's the end of it. With this guarantee today, without accelerating the construction of the third development of the axis, you are putting it at risk because of this huge debt, of course, means that the potential for debt in other projects will be compromised. And building a third developmental axis from Koroška is all through the Silesian Valley and down to the White Landscape is a priority project. Which has a priority and is, of course, at risk from this point of view, because obviously we owe ourselves so extremely much already on some other sections, even on sections that are practically already upgraded. This is how we face it today, this law, which the government has just presented to us, I must say, is more like some shit nest than some serious document. Because, once again, there are sections that have been practically completed and we find sections inside which the contract has already been signed, although it should not yet be in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. I'll be so glad if you're Minister Bajuk, if he can come to the National Assembly and stay here, he can look at it and explain his answers to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr Milan Petek has the floor to prepare Mr President. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you, President, for your word. So, in the introduction, of course, let me say that I support only the content of the amendment, knowing that doing this is something that we sometimes say in such a native language, I let the first word go against the wind. So why does the Liberal Democracy even propose such an amendment? It is the reason why he wants you, colleagues and fellow Members, and the Slovenian public to draw attention to what we are doing today and on Tuesday, when we accepted Dars' debt. We would like to point out that there are long-term consequences and it is better to remain in the anals, it is better to remain in the records, it is better to remain in public behaviour about someone alerting us to what we are actually doing and passing on to the shoulders of those who will, of course, feel the consequences of this. For this reason, of course, I find the surprise of some Members who talk about wasting time, about patheticism, about demagogism and so on inappropriate. So, this right and this option we have, and no one is going to take that away from us, even though you can think otherwise. Above all, in all this debate today, it is a miracle that the behaviour of some political parties who have previously been in opposition has changed me, but now you are in the coalition. How can a person in a year and a half or two change his mind so radically about whether or not it is advisable to be indebted? Above all, I am thinking here of a gentleman who does not once again contradict us so that I can at least argue with him or tell him in the face what I think he is saying to him - I think Mr Bajuk - who has not long talked about how the debt of Dars is pointless, as his debt goes into public debt. Today, however, he tells us how Eurostat has judged or convinced him that this is not going to work. Well, at least I'd apologize to those who read it to them. At least I would have admitted publicly that he was wrong that this knowledge had come today, that it had to be told by European officials or officials that it had come to that knowledge. So NSI welcomes a record ambitious road map. Gentlemen, this record ambitious is a misused word. There is nothing record ambitious here, this is all in the resolution on the national highway construction programme written. With this programme, we are simply placing or completing what the past government has provided by 2008 - that is to say, to secure the pomurski leg - everything else remains in dynamics, in pace, in realisation, as envisaged by the resolution, with some minor shifts. This same method of funding does not mean that we are going to be ahead of schedule or that we are going to be faster. I would like to hear this very much if one of the responsible assurances that we will be in charge of accelerating the early completion of the Maribor East Carnivore so that we can close the fiern link first. If that guarantee were true, I'd believe it. Now, I do not think that this is just the conclusion of those routes and those moves that have even been completed, some in implementation and some just in the planning or just before implementation. I do not deny that it is and that it is necessary to finance as quickly as possible the level of funding for motorways, but I think that, with the step that we have given up on the budgetary means that we have allocated these budgetary resources, not to us, to the motorways envisaged earlier, mainly to the regional roads. I think we all know that in this case it's a pre-election tactic, that it's about flattering voters in local settings. That one part of this, and this little part, has been dedicated to railways and that most of these planned, budgeted resources have actually been lost in the budget for something that only increases our funding problem or public finances. And because of this, it has warned that credit is unnecessary in this case, not at such an altitude, that time should be taken up, that time should be taken away at this stage, when we do not actually know how to use European funds to 500 million, and then decide whether to take an additional debt or, above all, to run for European funds, which we think we have all the right and opportunity; and I hope that we will also do it intensively. Once again, LDS supports the construction of motorways. We propose and believe that there is still a need to accelerate the pace with some moves, but we do not currently support such a high level of credit or guarantee arrangement that we are talking about today. Before that, some spoke of artistic impressions, pathetics, and so on. I would simply like to ask Mr Bajuk how he hopes to talk to us about motorways, about functional technical solutions for the collection of tolls. So what he was saying didn't hold any professional ground. What he was saying was on the verge of not knowing that I am not saying in the microphone, that there is someone on the verge of incompetence who must represent this to us; at least let Minister Bozic explain what toll stations are, what is free flow or electronic collection, what are technical solutions so that we can collect more tolls. Because the way he told us to, it just doesn't work. The government, or Minister Bozič, has made it clear on the Committee on Transport that these three other toll stations, Vogrsko, Ivančna Gorica and Vodice, will not be built. Yeah, then where did the increased tide come from? By what measures, if not electronic tolling, for which the same Minister of Christmas could not answer us, I do not think that Mr Bajuk will be introduced in 2008. So you didn't make that clear and loud. You have your doubts, and I really don't think there's any way we're going to introduce this in 2008. However, there are no other measures in the field of tolling, Mr Bayuk. So explain to the public how you will be saving on Dars and how you will be doing rationally, how you will increase your tolls with all measures. This is a bluff that today cannot be the basis for deciding on such a loan. Well, if I finish. There are too many of these empty words that do not provide good and clear answers to convince us of such a necessary level of commitment, such a guarantee that we must confirm today. That's why we're talking, so we're warning, but of course, we all want your optimism to come true, so that the roads are built, and that this guarantee or this loan would not leave too much of an impact on the craftsmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Bayuk has the word, have you raised your hand? [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to clarify once again, since the honourable Member, I would like to say again that I have not spoken about this matter, as far as the volume of the toll system is concerned. Of course, I'm not the right address to explain to you why it stopped the construction of the three stations you're talking about in 2004. I think someone else can explain that to you. But the fact is, I've already mentioned it, and I'm going to repeat it again, because it obviously doesn't make the toll system the way it is. It is not only ineffective in this sense that only 64% of what we could get actually also get, and it also needs to be very carefully checked how much of it is and where the funds are actually going. This is part of that review of contracts which are so provided for in the law itself. But it's the volume of the tolls. I think that the responsibility is not only of the executive power, including this national assembly, and it will be very possible to change some law if we come to this in order to have a more just system. That everyone who actually uses these ratings created by the motorway investment will actually participate in paying for all of this. And that it has to be paid, but it's clear. If not, even if the whole budget is now intended only to complete the highway programme, as some would like to see, that they would stop a lot of other things just to complete the highway programme with their own resources, without any debt, which was one of the refugees at global level, in order to pay what we already owe, which is this billion 900, guarantees that have already been given and used, should be updated and reviewed in any way. However, it is very possible that some segments will be able to pay less than they are paying now if those who drive for free contribute their share. That's possible, too. I can't guarantee it, but it certainly is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr President, Mr Potsch has the floor to prepare.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I think we are repeating ourselves quite a bit from Tuesday's debate, but even though I would like some things to be stressed again or even a little bit to answer or to say my position in relation to some of the discussions. For the first time, I am pleased that the Minister of Finance, of course, found that two years ago his debate was as it was, that is, his view of indebtedness because he obviously did not know all the facts or was building his debate on some of the wrong assumptions. I am pleased that, two years ago, we have amended the Dars Act and thus made it possible to finance the highway network, such as with the materials that we are dealing with these days, and we already will and will be, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why, of course, I will not vote in favour, I do not support this amendment, which was given, because, of course, I am also sure, as I said last Tuesday, that the Ministry or both ministries have made at least an internal amendment or introduced new guidelines on funding also into the national programme, in this part where we are talking about the financial structure of the implementation of this national programme or the resolution on the national programme. There has been a lot of talk about tolls on the motorway network for a very long time, of course I fully agree with these discussions and it is already in the national programme, which was adopted before two years in February 2004, that already has a rigid system or preparation for the freeway toll system, which is expected to come to life in 2008. I believe that Dars and the Ministry of Transport will therefore be this project, which is a difficult project, which is not so simple that it will also be implemented at this time. Where there are reasons, it should be asked that we have such an uneven, on the one hand an uneven, and on the other hand an unequal toll system. For the main reasons, in one of the conclusions of this national assembly, a few mandates back, I think it was around 1995, because of the fact that this national assembly, of course not in this composition, in another, decided to open up the toll system in the Republic of Slovenia. At that time we got these landscapes or whatever we call them, leading toll stations, and opened up some other imports and did so. Unfortunately, at the time, the state made this system uneven, and that country did, too, we can use the word, the unfair system. I'm sure it's not a way of financing the highway system, but it's just a different relationship. And assuming that we'll be successful in using cohesion funds, it's often obvious why not, probably in 2001, we couldn't use cohesion funds because they haven't been there yet, so I'm sure no one intended to stop the highway program that this highway program [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u49	Time's up. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Potch has the floor. Get ready, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think that none of us who discusses the guarantee law and the proposed amendment of the Liberal Democracy do not want to stop the construction of motorways in Slovenia. All discussions in this direction are not correct. I would like to say explicitly that this is also true for the Group of Social Democrats, and that all the debates that we place on this programme and on the occasion of the guarantee and when the loan is rented only go in the direction of the assessment of whether the volume is as envisaged and the speed as envisaged was indeed necessary or not. And the amendment that is proposed speaks only of whether, in the fact that we have already approved Darsa to rent a billion 30 million loans, we believe that this whole loan is necessarily covered by a guarantee or not in one part. Of course, with the consequences of understanding each other. We are aware of the consequences, because the loan covered by the State guarantee has a different price in banks than Dars himself has a loan. It is only incorrect to speak of the desire to stop the construction of the highway program with this amendment. Second. I thank the Minister for the information he has provided. I believe they also refer to the opening presentation of the views of our Group of Members. However, I would like to find out if I understand correctly, especially the following. With regard to the integration of Dars into the system or in the determination of the State's debt, I understood that the fundamental criterion that Europe had for non-inclusion was the fact that we had provided separate resources to cover good work, not fully, the good part of the repayment of credits. Yes, thank you, it's true. However, have these criteria changed with this loan and current resources? I argue that they are changing, quantitatively certain, whether to a sufficient extent or not, I don't know, we are the only ones who have received the information and no one has denied that this moment of existing toll covers mainly the repayment of existing credits, unforeseeable additional ones, and that these projected billions and 30 million euro of new credits will need to be provided with additional resources. If this is not a budget to ensure that Darsa's credits are not included in the country's indebtedness, this will be a toll. It is true that, but as for the toll, Mr Minister was very indistinguishable, in a way he simply said, "that is not my competence, that does not belong to the Ministry of Finance." Which is formally true, but I asked him, by the way, whether he was speaking on his own behalf or on behalf of the government. The government as a whole, if it considers that the current system is inadequate, it needs to find solutions. We just wanted to point out that when we look for these solutions, perhaps the solution will be very simple for our colleague Petan, who is now part of the electoral area in the worst position. The question is whether it will be for everyone else, whether they are from the coalition or the opposition. These were the reasons why we changed the system at the time and made exceptions, on the grounds that these exemptions should be provided in such a way that where there is no parallel flow possibility and everyone should use the motorway to, say, the centre or elsewhere, and someone else has the choice of highways or old roads to open up there and ensure that certain places or areas without the payment of the toll are also ensured. This will need to be discussed. That's all we're saying. And to say that that's not true, that's not true, and to say that this moment we already have the funds, it's not true. We're gonna have to talk about this, and that's the warning we're giving. For us, the proposed amendment only says that our desire or the desire of the applicants to encourage once again the decision on the reimbursement of funds, the means necessary for recovery, must be ensured as soon as possible - either within the budget or within the framework of the toll programme. But decisions must be made to do so. Secondly, it is indeed seen or and how it can be ensured that part of the motorway programme can also be covered by European funds. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Mr Financial Minister, these things remain possible, but not certain. And that's what's bad. And in this part of the law carries with it the kind of "che-e," which you have also said that if funding is provided, we will, if it is changed, maybe it will be cheaper for someone, maybe it will be more expensive for someone, maybe it will give you what budget These are the uncertainties and uncertainties that make us think that the prepared programme and both marriages were not good or to the end. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Just for a moment about the obvious misunderstanding. I would not like to remain in the magnetogram any opinion that I felt that the volume of tolls or toll systems was not a jurisdiction or that there was no responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, certainly not. If anything, this is an essential responsibility, because it is precisely the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance that we will do everything we can to ensure that these guarantees will never be redeemed in order to burden public finances in the future. And, of course, tolls or toll systems are one of the key assets that we have at our disposal and where there is yet another way to review, which we are also actually working and participating in the working bodies of the Ministry of Transport and the administration of Dars himself. That's one thing. That's another thing. Much has been said here about the transparency of the debt. As you know, our legislation, when it has introduced this system, is such a proposal as is before you today, is actually a bill of protection by which the National Assembly gives permission to conclude contracts under certain conditions. With regard to each contract, the Ministry of Finance must give its landings and also sign them on behalf of the Government; without such authorisation or the consent of the Ministry, they cannot conclude them. That's the first thing. Another interesting thing is that our legislation has its own specialities and between these particulars it is that if any specific loan or credit is made through an international contract, it must be ratified into the National Assembly. What are the international treaties? Yes, these are loans or loans leased by the Republic in multilateral institutions, where transparency is obviously much greater than when such contracts are made with private bankers. The law does not require any ratification from the government or from the Ministry of Finance, let alone information. With regard to transparency, I would like to say today that I intend, as Minister of Finance, to inform the National Assembly of any treaty that will not be international, and that everyone will know who and what he has signed, what are the conditions and what we have done with those things that this law allows us to do if it is adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you, Minister. Mr Jerovšek has the floor to prepare Mr Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am also joining the opinion, which has already been said that the amendment of the Liberal Democracy is harmful to the development of Slovenia. Members of the two parliamentary groups are here trying to prove that they are for faster development in order to build a highway crossing, but at the same time they do not support the logistics that is supposed to lead to this. In the Slovenian proverb it is said that they show pigeons on the roof, but Slovenians prefer sparrows in hand. And, you know, I understand this interest of these two political parties. So far, I have to say, they've caused Dars to be wasted, and there's a lot of work to be done here for Dars to make it rational again. The situation that was in the past at Darss, that he was a formal director from another party, say the People's Party, and in fact, according to my information, they decided everything in the LDS, everything. [[....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Who came to the director's desk to do what he had to do. [[...]] Such a condition caused irrationality, wastefulness. And here I have to say, it is your fault that the Slovenian mile is more expensive than elsewhere or, say, that the Croats had a faster pace of building highways. This was due to the fact that the construction operation was also totally in hand and the benefits of the construction operation, which was interested, the one that had so far collected all the works carried out, is interested in the fact that this programme is being carried out indefinitely because two, three large companies are provided with this. Secondly, it is also in line with the programme of these two parties that Prekmurje, Sočko dolina, Kozjansko, Bela krajina, Kočevsko will permanently remain the undeveloped provinces of Slovenia. And now they're trying to do this in every way to avoid a scar that makes it possible to develop into these places. In order to stay there, there would not be a company that would also invest in technology-intensive jobs with much added value in order to keep it all in the centre of Slovenia. They object to the fact that these areas of Slovenia are closer to allowing for some demographic development. In all areas, policy is the same. And here I also have to say that I understand everything they are advocating here when they oppose the adoption of some development strategy, greater development, allowing for greater development of other parts of Slovenia as well. I understand that their former president has stepped out of such a party. In fact, he was always under pressure because these narrow lobbyings were always inside and, of course, he went out of this, normally. He's so transparent and so president of all Slovenians, he couldn't take it anymore. And I am even more surprised that such a policy is also supported by the MEP from Maribor, Milan Petek, who used to perform. See, so important sections in Maribor, Maribor is literally blocked by the project Slivnica, Zrkovska cesta, bridge, then Slivnica, Gruškovje, which relieves Maribor and allows it to develop. And their MP, who was the mayor's candidate and they think he's running for mayor again in Maribor, opposes that. We need to invite the Mariborians what the LDS offers them. Candidates who are only concerned about the centre, the candidate who is against the development of Maribor, who spits in the Maribor bowl. I am surprised that he has accepted such a role within the LDS and that this is something he advocates here.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u55	Mr Jerovšek, for no one clings to the darkness, but you have gone very far.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u56	That's very consistent. And, of course, they are also disturbed by this, by the financial structure and all that this government has managed to financially consolidate the country very quickly, that it has financial indicators, that inflation has fallen so much, that economic indicators are favourable and that it is, of course, possible to get credit under significantly better conditions than they could have received when it has not moved anywhere. I understand that it bothers you very much. But the facts are different. And no one's gonna get us out of the country. If we're going to be with the road cross, with these eight, Koroška is abandoned, as I don't know what's underneath you. You're in favour of keeping it that way. If we approach development, high-value jobs, we will do the most, and this money will be able to return. See Croatia how fast it builds roads, and at least on this occasion you should be aware that we are actually being rushed around, that you had a wrong policy, that you caused a expensive mile of highway. Once again, such an amendment that they have proposed is harmful, especially to us, it seems to us that it is in your eyes that cohesion funds can be spent on developmental sites for a variety of developmental purposes. And now you say, cohesion funds. We will use them for other purposes to develop Slovenia. And we're going to build this from other means. And once again, of course, the Slovenian government and the current policy are waiting to reduce, or ensure, the transparency of the use of these funds, so that a kilometer of Slovenian highway will be cheaper than it was under the rule of the LDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich has the floor. Get Mira Friday ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u58	We'll probably hear a lot more about the sun rising somewhere else than we've been used to. But when you talk about it, Mr. Petan and Mr. Jerovšek, "the giants from the LDS, the leaves were coming," come with information, tell who, where, why, when. Don't make a flat-rate accusation about backing up. The results of the previous government, the previous period, everyone has seen, the results are here, we can measure them, we can check them, and there's nothing. But I am discussing the consent law, where I ask the second day why there is no respect for the law on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of state roads established by the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. After we changed public finances or passed the Public Finance Act, in 1998, we passed, for the first time, a law replacing the Gas Tolar Act. In 2002, Mr Jerovšek, you were here, we accepted that the country would provide 37 billion in the 2003 budget, and in the years after 2003, as much as that, from the price-calculated gas price, in order to build motorways in Slovenia. Why are you breaking this law? Why do you, instead of this law, come with an indefinite amount of money, for an indefinite amount of time? Until now, all the duties had a specific title, a specific deadline, and also this State Assembly approved them. Everything's transparent, everything's clear. That's the only question that comes up. And when we say, not a billion, let's give Dars 500 million, let's let Darsa do everything he can this year, do the second year, and it's imperative to do that, too, to take a look at everything at this time, including how this law on the provision of earmarked funds is being implemented, what contracts are there, or what other options there are. And no one says that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow - it was already said here on Tuesday that you will arrive next year with 300, 350 million euros. So, it means that this number, which we owe to today or are giving us the opportunity to be in debt, is not definitive - and I believe it is right that it is not definitive - even at point 3, we will discuss that with this annual programme we will give our consent to prepare Dars all necessary to issue the securities in order to reprogram the loans already rented. So the tolls and those resources that come from management, highway management, so far built, are not enough to cover this; but I will talk about this at the next point. That's the only question. And I can honestly and honestly say, this number of 500 million is just as thoughtful as a billion. Because all the questions, as many as were put here and on the committee, and on Tuesday, etc., are quite a few, and unfortunately we don't get the answers somehow. I want only one reason why this law is not respected and instead comes with a law on guarantees. This is what is essential to me, and, however, I would like to see that, despite everything, someone would explain when that point, when this billion credits will be granted, will also start to give a plus and when it will turn from borrowing to rationality of the project.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good bye to all of you! This story about Slovenian highways has had a beard for quite some time. We've been talking about this for over a quarter of a century. This EUR billion loan guarantee means only completing 90% of the basic programme. So there's still 10% missing. If we halve this number, we'll get to the 500 million euros we're talking about and the LDS amendment. And that, on the other hand, means that this completion of the Slovenian highway cross, with which we have great crosses and problems, is still extended to the future. And of course, where is the third and so-called fourth development axis? According to my assessment, it is necessary to complete this motorway cross as soon as possible or to decide on a second option to simply stop the construction of the highway cross and start the construction of the third development axis. This would probably not be wise, although it is in my interest to build the third development axis as soon as possible, linking distant Koroška with the rest of Slovenia. Where there are no roads, such as in Koroška, where we have mainly Augustes or jerks, development is lagging behind. There are no promising companies there, which is what we have here in Koroška. The region is old, the young are leaving, they are going to study in Ljubljana, Maribor and they do not come back. Unlike my colleagues, I do not think that the third development axis is at risk. The perspective of the third development axis is in the future financial perspective. Some of the projects on the third development axis are already under way, different variants are being made. We're about to start moving into space. And the so-called Zhagar Ministry has recently dedicated more than 200 million dollars to this third development axis. We have corals to A2, to the highway in Austria’s Koroška from 10 to 15 kilometers. Until the first highway in Slovenia we have from 70 to 80 kilometers, which is unsustainable. Last week there was a lot of talk from opposition members about how coalition MPs in the government broke our fingers. I have all my fingers, and I will vote in favour of this law, as I voted in favour of the amendment of the opposition Members months ago, with which we have allocated an additional 150 million dollars to rebuild the highway from Arya village to Velenje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr Pukšič has the floor to prepare Mr Žnidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President, a warm welcome to Mr Minister, to the Secretary of State with colleagues, of course colleagues and colleagues. In fact, if those who have had power in the past 12 years have adhered to the legislation adopted, it would certainly not be necessary to discuss this guarantee and to build a highway programme today. If we remember years ago, from 1996 to 1999, there was a legislative national programme for the construction of the highway cross. Then it changed because it turned out there wasn't enough money. But, of course, that was just a figure of speech. In fact, money was sufficient after a number of professional studies, but it was completely misused. And they built such options that were more expensive or acted as the building lobby ordered, but not as the profession and as the most economically justified for the citizens and citizens of this country. And today these areas would also have a significant expansion of development than they are today, because if some areas were to be reached only after August. Then the amendment of this programme was there until 2004. And by 2004, this programme had not been implemented. The programme from 2004 to 2008 foresees somehow completing this work by moving some sections even to 2013. Thank God, I can say that citizens and citizens have now received a second coalition, another government that will move this programme from 2013 to today's real time. The fact is, of course, there is no possibility of development where infrastructure is not developed. Infrastructure is a basic condition. Even Croatia, despite the war, was aware of this, a long-standing war and, of course, a disastrously poor economic situation. If they did anything, they built a highway connection. And if the former government coalition had done so at a time when the climate was significantly more favourable, of course today we could talk about significantly better economic indicators in all areas, especially with significantly smaller unemployment, in particular as regards Styria and Prekmur. It is strange and sad that there were so many Members from the Premur and Maribor swimming pool, but this part received at least after the basic national programme that, of course, it was completely forgotten about Koroška. If we continued this way, then Haider would come even to this side to place some of his tables and increase his territory, contrary to all legal acts, of course, but some in this world are allowed everything. The only happiness is that those who do not respect, who do not work for the welfare of the nation, whom they represent, are quick to fly to the dump of history and be forgotten and trampled very quickly. Today it is clear that if we want to make up for what has been missed, it is not possible to work with an indicator that points to the sixth hour, but, of course, to work only with money and, of course, with smart policy. In this programme, this government has shown it and, of course, I am glad that we will make up for the delay as soon as possible. That is why, of course, I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues and colleagues! We will support the law and, of course, we will not support the amendment, which reduces the scope of the debt, because we believe that the highway cross must urgently end, as envisaged, as soon as possible, because it is an investment in our future and our development. Of course, the number is very high, but highways are expensive and must be built as soon as possible, regardless of the fact that long years will then have to be paid for. Of course, it is not insignificant to support the fact that it is necessary to collect all the toll, not just the part we are collecting now. Indeed, citizens who could see the State guarantee of high credit for the construction of the highway want to build motorways without this guarantee, so that they can drive without toll and, of course, this is not the way it works. We're really collecting money from two other addresses, but that's not enough. If we want roads to be built in due course, this obligation must be done and the motorway programme implemented to the end. In doing so, of course, we will continue to support those efforts aimed at rationalising the use of highway money in the construction of motorways, which we think are being built in the most expensive way possible. It is not irrelevant, for example, that in Trebnje the highway, according to President Dars' statement, will be costing 10 billion more just because it will go down the middle of the hill instead of going down the valley. I myself advocated a variant that would go down the slope, but low enough not to significantly encourage construction. Now the accepted variant goes so much along the middle of the mountain. According to President Dars, at least 10 billion are more expensive. I am sure that this matter, if indeed so, would suggest reconsidering and spending money more wisely on the same length of highways; even if it does not fully agree by those things directly concerned there. It is a national interest to get highways as soon as possible and at the same time to be as cheap as possible. Personal or narrow interests should not prevail. Of course, I am also referring to the findings of the Court of Auditors in the past, not only in the current reports. The Court of Auditors has often pointed out the billions of contracts signed in breach of the applicable rules in a way that, for example, the cheapest bidder won the negotiations for a certain section of the motorway and then the contract was concluded for disproportionately higher value. So then this bidder became the most expensive if I subtract the auctions that increased the cost during the construction process. We are committed to renting the required amount of credit, to allow motorways to end up, to use this credit as rationally as possible, to make as much of the toll as possible, to ensure that as little of this credit as possible becomes a public debt and to implement consistency over all those who would delay spending money irrationally or who would illegally operate in the area of large public funds, if I may say so, in carrying out this very important project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Hello, my dear. I will not support the amendment, for a simple reason, because if this amendment were accepted, we would actually undermine the financial structure of the planned construction of motorways from 2006 to 2010, given the agreement given to Dars for renting credit that we adopted in the National Assembly on Tuesday. The financial structure is made and among other resources is also a source of billions and 30 million Euros of credit. It is true that the financial resources from the budget are falling, but financial resources for state roads are increasing. I welcome this because, over the years, this area has been completely neglected. I, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues of the former government, would not be too grateful to the extent in the past that we have earmarked funding for highways from the budget. Of course you have a lot of them. But this other area has been completely neglected, and I could ask you today if it was not during the period when it was actually interesting, given the attractive corridors or the route in Slovenia, then decide on a different way of financing and grant a concession or on the basis of a private and public partnership some part of the highway to build. At the time, this was still topical or attractive, and today the question is whether it will be possible to use it. I also think that maybe this Phyrn Road is the only way to finance it. It is true that there is an alternative source, a European resource. But I would also like to draw attention to the fact that some, particularly colleagues Cwickl and colleague Lachovnik, have debated extensively on how to involve these funds or those 28% of European funds in the construction of the highway. But I would like to warn you that some of you are mixing apples and pears. EUR 4 and a half billion is for the next financial perspective, or 900 billion, when you tell a lot about whether it's 1080 billion, but it's also somehow divided in areas. Only 2.1 billion is a huge amount of funding for this area, we cannot say that environmental protection or rural development will be, because it is planned, for example, EUR 939 million or almost a billion human resources, because it is EUR 645 million, that it is also a concrete infrastructure. I do not see the problem of dedicating European funds to real programmes, real projects, and you know there are still a lot of commitments to modernising railways. In fact, today we can ask ourselves, every European money, if we can only get it, and I am sure that it will have to be for real projects, as well as for our descendants, just as the highway is for real projects. We will certainly have a lot of good projects in the next financial perspective, where we will be able to make use of this European money. Somehow I can't understand why the whole Tuesday debate today's debate is just on the part of the LDS Club Members about why they're not sources of "this right." Once again, as I began, the financial structure is made and must be, you cannot plan the project for a four-year period without completion of the financial structure. I believe that it is the right one, and I am also firmly convinced that this part of the loan would be returned, as has been said many times, by the quality of the toll collection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Tanko has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you. First of all, I think it would be right if some former ministers were present in the Chamber, who had adopted certain legislation in the area of the highway programme, and that they might also hear from this side whether, in the case we are considering, it is indeed a change of course, as previously said by one of the Members of the Liberal Democracy, or whether it is not a change of course in this area. First of all, I would like to point out that the views of the Liberal Democracy go to this specific law on the consent to borrow Darsa's loans for inconsistencies. In the past days, we have heard a lot of debate about the fact that there is no need for a billion euro guarantee law because, under certain conditions, Dars should be able to repay these loans without any rental or adoption of the guarantee law that we now have before us. However, with a concrete amendment, in the Liberal Democracy in which they propose a reduction, they have somehow acknowledged that the loan guarantee laws are still necessary in order to avoid them. And in this part, I see real inconsistencies. Another discrepancy is that it is irresponsible, we passed a loan law on Tuesday, or we agreed to rent a loan for a billion EUR 30 million, and now you want us to give only half of that amount, or less than half of that amount. I think that the approach is controversial and cannot contribute to responsible public finances and not to responsible behaviour and proper attitude towards the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. The second thing I would like to say is that this National Assembly and this country have adopted up to now 23 loans on the law on debt and just as many guarantees, the laws on guarantees. I am interested in what, in fact, is the fundamental difference between previous mandates in this area and this mandate. We have adopted 23 laws for billions of €900 000. And I think that in this particular case it is necessary to maintain some level of debate, including some level of relation to matter that we are dealing with. Elections in this case cannot mean as much of a change of course as we are witnessing to him today, because this essentially means mere diversion. In short, I see a change of course in another area. If we look at the magnetograms of the discussions in the previous term, both former heads of government and some ministers, it has always been stressed that the construction of motorways is an intergenerational project, that it is not a matter of one period or one mandate, but that we are going with some development project, with some investment project also under the burden of future generations. In fact, no one was particularly opposed to this because we know that this project is otherwise impossible to build. The loans that were leased were also very long-term, some by 2025, 2030. In short, it's been a very long time. During this period, the dynamics, including resources or financial structures, were adapted. The fact is that whenever anyone, an economic company or a state decides to rent a loan, it does not usually rent short-term bridging loans, but for investment projects it is normal to borrow long-term loans. And even in this case, nothing is completely different. Interestingly, some years ago, we also discussed a study produced by the Faculty of Economics. It found that there were no specific difficulties in restoring the liabilities of the leased credits for the construction of motorways as well as future debt in this area. The problem was more or less simply that there was no precise projection of the dynamics of the development of the traffic loads of these newly built roads and it was very difficult to define the scope of this traffic. In short, the key two conditions for the repayment of credits are to cover tolls, even if the tolls are not disincentived, but only the volume covers tolls and also the dynamics of traffic congestion or traffic growth dynamics. And it is obvious that with a 100% increase in volume covering tolls, from 60% to 90%, practically means that the project is closed, that all these matters can be returned under all these conditions. A slightly higher growth than I do not know, and 2% or 3% of transport growth also represents a significant relief in this area. The matter of this salary would not be questionable. The fact is that in this study it is also written that the construction of motorways significantly contributes to the economic growth of both the state of Slovenia. However, it is likely that this economic growth is even greater in areas where the motorway intervenes, as there is a substantial increase in support and also significantly greater potential for investment interventions from other areas, other sectors, which in fact also represent new jobs, new programmes, new products, new content and also a significant contribution to the stabilisation of the standard and to the stabilisation or regulation of employment situations in certain areas. For this reason, we also felt that it was appropriate or that we were not particularly opposed to the government's decision to have the suburban leg taken prematurely. Thus, the shortening of the construction deadline compared to the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways is five years. The deadline from 2013 moved to 2008. It was precisely for reasons relating to the economic system that it seemed reasonable for the State to take approaches in this area and also allow those borderline and economically weak ones to open up prematurely and thus, in addition to the transport matters they were burdening there, also give them conditions for economic development. In fact, it seems very problematic to me that in 2004 we adopted a resolution on the motorway programme, that when this resolution was adopted, an amendment was also proposed to connect the lower road, that is to say the road connecting to the Ribnica - Kočev motorway ring. This amendment included the whole third development axis, as well as some other sections, and the adoption of a law on conservation of nature by a regulation or so-called Natura 2000. This basic amendment was by this law and this regulation has been completely eliminated and covered by the nature protection issues which now prevent the implementation of this part of the project. In this case, however, I think it is in fact irresponsible of all those who have participated directly in the coalition treatment and adoption of this law, which has actually prevented one large, more or less entire postwar period of the closed area. And this area, unless anything is resolved in this area, will remain closed. I, myself, of this amendment, proposed by the Liberal Democracy, will not support it, as it seems inconsistent to me, because, according to the law approved on Tuesday, on the lease of a billion 30 loans, this guarantee is halved and, in fact, indirectly also prevents the implementation of projects and also calls for projects for the remaining 500 million euros. I think it is, I would say unacceptable, because in this particular case she did not submit, but what are those road sections that do not deserve this guarantee. The law we passed on Tuesday contained a specification of all the road sections covered by the basic law and the guarantee law. And neither in Tuesday nor in this amendment is there a section that is supposed to be deleted or for which this guarantee is not to be issued. That seems irresponsible to me. And given your consistency, which you are always stressing, it would be very correct to make a specification of those sections that deserve. I think that the legal solution and the government's approach is absolutely no different than the approach to the highway programme in previous mandates. And this law, which we are going to confirm today, has all the required ingredients, so we will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you, Comrade Tanko. There are no more MEPs on the list for discussion. I therefore ask, does anyone else wish to speak about the amendment of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group? I don't see a desire to discuss it, so, Comrade Rob, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u70	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! There's something about the whole project. So, just like it's set [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u71	Comrade Robb, allow me to remind you. Your time is up, so I can't give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u72	Okay, we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u73	It's a deal. This concludes the debate. The vote on the amendments will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, within a point of vote, half an hour after the end of the 29th agenda or at the latest at 20.55 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. Period of the Day - First draft of the Society Act. In doing so, I remind you that three hours and 48 minutes are foreseen for the debate. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members with first-signed Mir Potrčem requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. Among us is Minister of the Interior, Mr Dragutin Mate, who I give him my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The government has prepared a new law on society. Thus is the law before us, which we believe must be thoroughly renovated. With the amendments and with this new law, we want to establish such a legal regime in the field of societies that will be comparable to modern European solutions and will also apply the principles recommended by the Council of Europe in its documents. Undoubtedly, it is an important law that concerns almost every one of us, almost every one of us is included in one of the societies. At the moment we have over 19,000 different societies in Slovenia and practically every year there are thousands of new companies registered. The law so far needs to be amended or supplemented, including because legislation in this area needs to be aligned with the area of the offence law requiring the imposition of fines. Another very important area that requires the adoption of a new law on societies is the area that has not been covered by the law so far - this is the scope of the possibility of misuse of societies with regard to money laundering, which, last but not least, has been pointed out to us by the Council of Europe's special committee to assess measures against money laundering and the possibility or association with the possibility of financing terrorism. The bill brings the following major new solutions. The concept of non-profitability of a society based on the fact that a society is established and is acting to achieve an unprofitable purpose, and the surpluses are not shared among members, but are intended and applied to me and to the objectives of the company defined in their founding acts. Legal persons are allowed to establish or become members of society, enabling almost everything for modern Western European legislation. So far, our legislation has not known. A general prohibition on the establishment of societies shall be imposed with a view to developing activities prohibited by the Constitution or for the sole purpose of carrying out a gainful activity. A so-called cross-examination of the legal personality is being introduced to prevent the responsible person of the company from transferring property or expected income to another entity in order to avoid debt and thereby try to play another tax law. On behalf of society, they will only be able to be in Slovenian in the future, which of course applies only to those societies that will be re-established, and there will be no change in old societies. The law provides for the right of members and those who have been refused membership to challenge the decision of the bodies of associations before a court, but only if they have made use of all the remedies and all the provisions which the companies have and only after one year after such a decision has been taken. It simplifies the conditions for the registration of a company by allowing or withdrawing the obligation to introduce the certification of the signatures of the founders, the data from the official records will be obtained from the body itself and the companies will no longer have to bring these certificates. As a result of the change in the seat of society, it will no longer be necessary to amend the basic act of society as it has been so far. The law removes restrictions on foreigners and foreign legal persons in the establishment of societies, resulting from Slovenia's entry into the European Union. In the future, society will also be able to carry out profitable activities if this is not an exclusive activity, just as companies will be able to set up companies. The law will further simplify the accounting of societies, says a society with lower incomes, to which the law foresees an increase in the level of resources for which they will be managed by simple accounting or, if I say so, books of income and expenditure from the current legislation, where it is a million, to two million, but simple accounting will run up to five million. An obligation to revise accounting expenditure for companies whose income exceeds 200 million tolars is introduced, the audit is intended to provide members with an overview of the legality of companies. It should be said that in Slovenia there are only 53 such companies that exceed 200 million tolars of income and it should also be mentioned that when we introduce a higher limit for management, only a book of income and expenditure, from a million to two million, there are almost 50% of all companies registered in Slovenia in this category. The law provides for a uniformisation of the status of companies acting in the public interest. With the adoption of the law, it will also be possible to obtain status in areas where this has not yet been possible. The law also has a concrete impact on the status acquired, namely the evaluation of the status of public calls for funds from the state budget. The company will be able to transfer the remaining assets to any non-profit legal entity at the time of termination, except to a political party. The law also introduces the possibility that companies may be subject to compulsory settlement or bankruptcy. The novelty is also a prohibition of the operation of a company which can only be pronounced by the Court of Justice for the most serious infringements of the Constitution or for companies which carry out purely profitable activities, and would also, by law, cease the operation of a company which, twice within five years, would be punishable by a criminal offence which indicates the actual conduct of an activity or a gainful activity of a company and no other activity. At the same time, the law also introduces inspection controls, one of the biggest shortcomings of the legislation so far. However, with the implementation of this, the inspection, as proposed by law, will come into the area of inspection, the Ministry of the Interior and, of course, inspections will be carried out in accordance with the law on offences and other legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u75	Minister, thank you for further explanation of the bill. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first position will be presented to us by Member Dara Lovtijar Bebler, the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The LDS is opposed to the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. In general, however, we draw attention to many of the issues at stake. First of all, we're talking about previous questions. In the general debate, it shows in principle that the law in force is not an obstacle to the establishment and functioning of societies. There is no complete need for a new law and any necessary changes could be enforced through changes to the applicable law. The new law standardizes more and more. The specifics of societies are not sufficiently taken into account. To stress, the adoption of the law does not take any time. The law has been in force since 1995 and its amendments since later years. It is probably much more hasty in some other laws, which have a far more fatal and more impact on society’s position than on society’s laws. Let us mention the anachronistic and highly controversial law on sport for illustration. What did the proposer in the bill want to say with a fragmented and uneven review of arrangements in other countries? No analysis of the implementation of the current law, which would show that the law in force has done or is doing harm to the establishment of societies, is included in the explanation of the proposal. Nor is it shown to what extent the proposal for a law, which is more extensive, follows the general trend towards reducing State interference in the civil sphere. Provisions on accounting, accounting standards and the submission of an annual report, i.e. on financial transactions, would need to be simplified for the vast majority of, in particular, smaller societies. The adoption of the proposed provisions brings great red tape, with great additional burden on societies and bodies. The chapter of the records should also be simplified and resolved, where appropriate, by means of a sub-legislative act. Finally, it is the imbalance of the law, which gives disproportionate attention to the public interest, the cessation of society, records, transitional and final provisions. To what extent are almost 20,000 entities that do not normally employ professionals truly able to follow the requirements of this and many other laws. What the new law leaves out, what rules are different, and what is new compared to the applicable law. There are no answers to these questions either. Societies are very different and are part of different areas, such as sports, culture, humanitarian societies, even though they are clumsyly grouped in the explanation of the bill. There is a whole series of unresolved fundamental problems, such as the establishment. In the explanation for the bill, the applicant states, among other reasons, that the very new possibility of establishing societies also justifys the creation of a new law. While it is true that in most comparable countries companies can also set up legal entities, this is not sufficient for the proposed solution. The solutions are opposed to at least two arguments. The tradition of societies, as an instrument for the exercise of the constitutional right of citizens to unite, represents in Slovenia the original solution of priceless value, which is almost impossible to find in the European Union, for example, and represents a brilliant solution to much of the problem of organised civil spheres. It is not only partial and mechanically possible to tolerate foreign patterns without their full knowledge and consideration of our specificities. The possibility of setting up companies by legal persons should prevent profit organisations from setting up non-profit organisations whose aim is to set up societies through which profit organisations can run and use companies to create and spill profits. The company may also establish a foreign national who does not have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of a proposal for a law. There is no argument in the explanation why foreigners who do not live in the Republic of Slovenia as well. All societies aren't the same. Otherwise, it would be very important to sharpen the question of whether all societies can really be put in one basket. This is a matter of great specificities in particular areas, as well as other areas. If we only mention the question of criteria relating to public funds, exclusively amateur work, the scope of funds, public authority, public interest, share of professional work and so on. The status of society in the public interest, for example. The status shall be granted by a competent ministry which has a large discretionary right. However, the criteria for granting status are very loose and general. The granting of status should take place according to predetermined and well-known criteria. The question is whether only the state can grant such status. The proposal for a law retains a drinkable and completely inadequate definition of the association of societies. It would be necessary to develop this institution thoroughly, as is the case where relationships often work extremely problematic, illegal and non-democratic. However, some relationships are formal in one way or another, and in fact the centres of club activity, supra-social activities and often huge assets also allow for the absolute subjugation of the actual civil sphere. When considering the law, it is essential to take into account the link between the problem and other laws. Not only with those who regulate the motherland, but also with many others, who together define the position of societies and consequently the position of the civil sphere. In particular, it shows that the problem of tax legislation is highlighted, which is, in fact, most of the time completely inconsistent with its consistency. It harms societies and limits their potential and indirectly creates new pressures on state resources and contributes to the destruction of one of the most important social segments. In short, the concept of the proposed law is completely unclear or, more precisely, confused and flawed. The proposed law does not facilitate the establishment and functioning of societies, but in fact makes it difficult and complicated. It wants to put in place greater regulation on internal supervision in society, which may be a major problem for smaller societies. It also wants to implement more detailed and strict regulation of the responsibility of societies. For example, the company’s legality, apart from society, is also the responsibility of the company’s representative with all its assets. However, the basic act may also designate another person or several persons responsible for the legality of the company's business areas, for example financial transactions, for the performance of a certain activity of the company and so on. The claimants may obtain payment of their claims directly from the responsible persons of the company who, on purpose or for the benefit of others, reduced the company’s assets or prevented the increase of the assets, even though they knew that the company would not be able to pay its obligations to third parties. The question arises why a stricter responsibility is placed for the representative of society, with all its assets, as provided for by the Law on Economic Companies for Managers d.o.o. or the same liability as that of s.p. and d.o.b. We also acknowledge that he did not have a sufficient prior public debate, he did not take into account the vast majority of comments and suggestions from individual societies and their associations, and therefore the marriage proposal is non-life and destimulative for a rich social life in Slovenia, which has a very rich tradition. The government's proposal for a law on societies, therefore, in our opinion, is not suitable for further consideration and we propose to withdraw from the legislative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you, Member of the Parliament of Dara Lavtijar Bebler, for giving us the views of the Member's Club of Liberal Democracy. However, we are moving on to a presentation on the position of the House of Social Democrats. Ambassador Dushan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A respected minister with co-workers! Colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we propose that the government, as the proposer, withdraw the proposal for a law on societies from treatment in the National Assembly, thereby allowing for a wider public presentation and confrontation of opinions and proposals, and that they participate more effectively in the drafting of the bill itself, including interested societies or their associations, such as the Union of Social Organisations of Slovenia, which brings together more than 60% of all societies in Slovenia. Finally, it would be good to implement some of the agreements that were adopted last year, such as the agreement at the June meeting last year that, following inter-departmental coordination in the government in September, proposers and representatives of societies meet. In short, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the role of societies in modern, developed European countries is certainly not negligible. This is not just a matter of democratic views, but of very pragmatic reasons that the governments of developed countries are leading to a stimulating policy in ensuring sound conditions for the functioning of non-governmental civil organisations, which of course include societies. On the other hand, the tradition of societies, as already mentioned today, as an instrument for the exercise of the constitutional right of citizens to maintenance, represents in Slovenia a kind of original solution of priceless value, which is almost impossible to find a comparison, for example in the European Union countries, and represents a good solution to the larger part of the problem of organised civil society in Slovenia. Therefore, it is not possible, and it is not appropriate, to simply partially and mechanically transfer foreign samples, without comprehensive knowledge and consideration of our specificities and already achieved in this area. The opinion in the Social Democrats Group is that the law is more important than it seems at first sight. It directly and indirectly encroachs on the primary interests of hundreds of thousands of citizens. That's why he deserves more attention. Also because the law will take a lot of work at the very implementation stage, both in societies and in authorities at national level. It is important to stress that there is no hurry in adopting the law. It is probably much more hasty in some other laws, which have even more fatal and more impact on society’s position than on society itself. Let me give you an illustration of tax legislation or, as has already been mentioned today, kind of useless or not well-solvable law on sport. In the opinion of the Social Democrats Group, the current bill still raises some important issues that could be better addressed. That is why we propose that the dialogue for the drafting of the bill itself should be extended. Let me write some of these questions down. During the working stages, the applicant argued, among other reasons, that the very new possibility of societies also establishing legal persons justified the creation of a new law. Otherwise, the new law has limited this right to non-profit legal persons, which represents only a partially understandable dictatorship and yet some kind of problematic compromise. In fact, this arrangement has been transmitted directly from abroad. It would also be useful to re-examine the question of whether all societies can really be defined in one law and thus, by their content, by their way of action, be evenled in their own way. This is just a matter of great specificities in particular areas. In this context, the issue of public interest also falls within this context. Indeed, after all, it is those who claim that the functioning of all societies is generally understood as acting in the public interest. If that is not the case, then it is necessary to define more precisely and unequivocally in the law which company acts in a representative interest of the public interest and which one does not, or to release this dictatorship or definition. The next issue, which is important, is the question of non-profit. The solutions in the proposed law are partly acceptable and the problem of societies is neglected, and we are particularly alert in the parliamentary group to sports and cultural societies in which so-called "money" is dominated by half professionalism or professionalism. The problem of dividing the created assets cannot be limited to the sharing of surpluses and profits achieved. According to the Ministry of the Interior, for example, sports companies represent a large part of the current registered societies. If the information is correct, there are more than 6,000 sports associations in less than 19,000 societies. It is also possible to conclude that sports companies are very specific in the field of acquisition activities, as sports organisations acquire most of the funds for programmes and for their activities on the market and their own activities. According to the Institute for Sport, public finances are among the expenditure for sport, representing 11.32% three years ago, now representing 12.18% of all expenditure, all of which are obtained by these sports organisations with so-called private resources. This is why the view of sports organisations, especially in the taxation of activities, is particularly acute. Especially when visited by tax inspectors, because they treat them in the same way and similar as economic operators. It might therefore be useful to define in the transitional provisions that those companies that have high incomes and are made more than 50% of these revenues through external services are transformed into companies. More clearly and comprehensibly, it should be stated in the law when establishing societies that it is necessary for legal persons to prevent profit organisations from establishing non-profit organisations whose aim is to set up societies where profit organisations can run and use companies to create and spill profits. The restriction solely on a society whose exclusive activity is a gainful activity is too weak a definition and a diction so that non-profits can consequently have a more serious positive impact on society. It will always prove possible to show at least some percentage of non-profit activities, thereby covering the definition itself and the diction. We should therefore prohibit the cessation of societies whose main activity is of a gainful nature. Let me give you an illustration of the case that my colleague Pivec pointed out years ago when this discussion took place. In fact, there are a number of clubs that perform night-time programs with dancers as a non-profit activity that add a guest and other offer and, of course, the definition is covered. Nor does the social inspection service established by the Ministry of the Interior provide operational efficiency, i.e. since it is more than 18,000 entities, it is more appropriate to carry out this task in municipal inspection services or in administrative units. This inspection will be difficult to carry out centralised, centralised service from Ljubljana. The main motive for the operation of societies is not a desire to share profits, which applies to economic operators, but to the functioning of other companies, in particular the social view of wider values. And right here, there's a key difference that we can't ignore. We do not understand non-profit activities where profit is not generated but where the difference between income and expenditure is created, but neither is it shared between members, nor must it be shared by management or management or by any other body of society, but profit or surplus can only be used to finance the activity or purpose for which the company's legal person has been established. And this is the reason that it is impossible to treat society and the economic operator in the same way. It is also necessary to determine whether it is a year or two to determine whether the company is profitable or unprofitable. At the time of its establishment, it is not yet an activity and it is difficult to assess and classify whether it is profitable or unprofitable, but it is possible, for example, to do so during the first accounting period, so we consider that such a definition as defined in the law is not the most appropriate. In short, let me finish. Many societies operate in the public interest, which is regulated in more detail by the law on societies and other areas of legislation, from which it can be concluded that the community must, therefore, have a different attitude towards societies when determining a gainful activity than it does to economic operators. However, this relationship cannot be resolved only by means of a social law. Essential to the position of a taxable person must be the purpose for which the funds from the activity are used, not the way in which the funds were obtained. So if I'm concrete and pragmatic. Just as important as the adoption of a new company law, the provisions of the corporate tax law should be corrected, whereby taxpayers are also institutions and societies and defined as gainful organisations when they engage in gainful activities, and therefore, by their consistency, tax law is in fact often inconsistent, harming and limiting their potential and giving rise to increasing pressure on ever-increasing state resources. In short, in the Group of Social Democrats, we propose that this dialogue should only be extended, so we propose that the Government withdraw the bill from the procedure, including for a reason, I will quote from last year's meeting, which was held on 16.6.2005, when the representatives of society and representatives of the Ministry of the Interior met and the Ministry of Interior said among other things: "As the dialogue between the government and civil society has not yet been fully exposed and has not yet been definitively determined in what way it is to take place in the future, it is necessary to wait for a decision on how communication will be reinstated and be possible to proceed." The proposal for a social law should not be a means of facilitating dialogue itself but should be designed to meet the needs of the social sector itself and the need to regulate the area as such." For this reason, she suggested that in early September, when all ministries' positions were harmonised, the proposal with society should be reopened on specific issues. As far as I am concerned, this debate has not been concrete to date and we simply propose that this debate be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you, Comrade Kumer. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Member Anton Kokalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u80	Proposaler, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would establish, by means of the proposed law, such a legal regime in the field of societies that will be comparable to more modern European regulations and the principles set out by the Council of Europe to promote the development and strengthening of NGOs in Europe. The law will remove obstacles to the establishment of associations for private legal persons and foreigners who do not have a residence in the Republic of Slovenia and lay down legal frameworks for the operation of foreign societies in the Republic of Slovenia. The law also simplifies the conditions for the registration of a company and defines the registration procedure more clearly. It will simplify accounting management by raising the threshold for managing simplified simple accounting from one to two million tolars. It will equalise the conditions for the application of the status of society in the public interest. It will remove certain restrictions on the management of the company’s assets at the time of its termination. The law also establishes certain mechanisms that will to a greater extent ensure that the legal organisational form of society is reserved only for non-profit-making integration, namely the pursuit of the purposes and the implementation of activities aimed primarily at profit-making. It will introduce the possibility of bankruptcy of a society and a court ban on the operation of a company which, by its operation, violates the Constitution of a certain right of others or predominantly engages in gainful activities, and the cessation of a society under the law itself if it repeats violations of the law which demonstrate its profit-making nature. The law establishes a legal basis for keeping the register of societies as a centrally-informed database. However, for this purpose, coordination with the public concerned, in particular with the representatives of the companies, has led to a proposal to amend the definition of the extent of the allowable exercise of gainful activities from the main to the exclusive. In regulating the establishment of companies, however, companies are limited only to taking into account their own purposes and objectives, which is the only possible and also a real purpose. The amendments provided by the applicant do not change the purpose of ensuring the non-profit nature of societies through the mechanisms of the law itself. Additional restrictions on companies in the performance of gainful activities and the control of greater legality of operation will be achieved through the implementation of the currently defined inspection controls. Nevertheless, several questions were raised in the New Slovenia Group on the content of the law itself. The limit of 200 million Slovenian tolls for statutory audit seems relatively high, but is still acceptable in comparison with companies and their specificities. In our opinion, it is also necessary to have a vision of the development of societies in the direction of bringing together the interests of citizens and citizens who do not have a prior purpose of profit, which is why most societies in Slovenia are established. That's why we weren't the most excited about replacing the term "mostly" with the term "exclusive", as far as society's profitable activity is concerned. We trust the assurance that the activities of the inspection after the law has been enforced will adequately monitor the basic mission of the companies and will also effectively take action in the event of violations. The new creation of societies by legal persons has also raised attention in terms of representation of public interest and the role of NGOs in this regard. The answer to the legal practice and the norm of the European Union gives us a satisfactory answer at this point in time to support the law at this stage. At this stage, the parliamentary group supports the law and will be actively involved in clearing up the dilemmas that will still be opened during the adoption process. We believe that a transparent and stimulating legal, bureaucratic and financial environment has been regulated for the healthy development of the Slovenian social scene is extremely important.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be moved by Member Franz Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Dear Members, Members, Government representatives, Minister! In the general debate, the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the law on societies. The voluntary association of citizens in society is one of human rights and fundamental freedoms enshrined in the Constitution. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that social activity is a very important part of Slovenian society and enables a better quality of life for citizens, especially in rural areas where there are no major public institutions for cultural or sports life. The need to establish societies of a humanitarian nature is also growing. Many activities, such as firefighters' societies, hunting families, various humanitarian societies and others, meet the gaps that the state administration and the local administration would not be able to carry out or finance fully, as voluntary work and activity of citizens in our opinion are invaluable and rich in our society. Therefore, the new law must ensure the easy registration and operation of societies and their associations, prevent the abuse of societies for the acquisition of legal persons, ensure the democratic and transparent functioning of societies. We believe that the new Social Act should, in particular, enable the simple, efficient functioning of societies, their members and members, taking into account the specificity of the operation of small societies. The new law entails greater supervision and use of money, but it is necessary to ensure that properly trained inspectors do so. According to the draft bill, in the Slovenian People's Party, we would not want to have one inspector working at the level of the Republic of Slovenia, and some could then call him a political inspector. The system must be set up so that the administrative authorities in the administrative units responsible for this are given additional powers to register the company, which may also be authorised to exercise control over certain statutory legal acts of associations where an individual may exercise control. It is necessary to prevent conscious damage to creditors, while at the same time to facilitate administrative work and the management of documentation for societies, in order to increase the basic activities for which they are linked in societies and not in bureaucratic forms. With transparent working methods and democratic leaders of societies and their associations, it is necessary to properly regulate the rights of all members, to regulate the acquisition of funds for the operation of societies, to cover costs and to implement the programmes put forward. [[...]] In particular, it is necessary that the law in certain provisions and articles prevent any abuse in the acquisition of funds, or that it is a profitable acquisition. In particular, financial arrangements should be carefully regulated [[Incomprehensible.]] for societies where legal persons are also among the founders. There are a lot of questions and we are also asking and reminding ourselves that the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be actively involved in the second reading, particularly in some societies. In the past, we have already had a debate in the National Assembly or, for example, firefighting companies are allowed to carry out certain activities as an additional source of funding. In this National Assembly, we have adopted a law on hospitality which prohibits firefighting companies from carrying out so-called "your pleasures" and similar activities. Of course, these companies have found themselves borrowing documents from innkeepers for compensation and thus trying to obtain certain funds that are essential to society’s public interest. For example, fire companies carry out a public fire service in the local community. Surely we all know that the municipalities cannot or cannot provide sufficient resources for the effective provision of public fire services. The second question raised by my fellow Member from Gorenjska reminded me of what will happen to mountain societies, mountain houses. Given that at 2,000 meters high, there is probably few who would have had s.p. or registered any other activity to sell tea in mountain houses. Although this is a source of income for this company that carries out such activities in one of the mountain huts, in order to invest money in development, in marking, in infrastructure around the house, in informing the mountain ranges and so forth. We are of the opinion that the law should exclude certain societies of particular importance in order to be able to carry out activities in a specific area of acquisition. And if they show for what purposes it is necessary to make this possible by law. The basis for the adoption of this legislation and the amendment of legislation should not be the abuse of certain individuals who have established societies in order to open social "biffies" in such or other places. This is not the reason and there is no reason to change legislation in this area. It is necessary to delimit the powers of certain societies and the powers of societies of public interest or public character, as well as certain companies performing public economic service, such as firefighters who perform a public fire service. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the law because it brings some improvements to the functioning of societies, and we stress the need to ensure proper supervision. Otherwise, the law will not be effective and will not further affect the operations of smaller societies. We also expect clear, short and effective responses from the applicant, in what way it will ensure that these companies of public interest, public character and those companies operating public economic services in certain local communities can continue to carry out these activities. This is mainly a gainful activity. It is very well known and important that certain companies are financed primarily by issuing their own publications, by publishing advertisements and by publishing an invoice to that contracting entity or to a private entity for publication, and this is one of the forms of the company’s acquisition activities. If this is not the case, I think that in this way we have buried all the societies, there is no society that would not have used such a way to issue an invoice for an advertisement in the Chamber, in order to obtain a source for the activity and work of societies. If the Ministry of the Interior ensures that the said way, as I mentioned it, is not a gainful activity in this way, as we warn ourselves, I think it will be clear and the law will be appropriate. Otherwise, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we wish to participate positively in the amendments for the second reading and in the content of the law itself and in some way to ensure that these cases, as I mentioned them, are excluded from those activities which should be prohibited by the Act. We will support the general debate in the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you, colleague Kangler. The presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the Ministry. The law that we are discussing today is actually a law that has a long history of creation. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia lists compliance with the legal order of the European Union among the basic reasons for the adoption of the law. It is also intended to follow a more consistent application of the constitutional principle of freedom of association, with the government stressing the removal of obstacles to the establishment of societies for legal persons and foreigners who do not have a residence in the Republic of Slovenia. According to data from the register of societies, at the end of 2004 there were 19 thousand 246 registered companies, mostly in the sports field, followed by cultural art and society to help people. Statistics also show that in the Republic of Slovenia there is a society of about 103 inhabitants, which is a significant number compared to other European countries. Every year, however, over a thousand new societies are expected to be established under current legislation. In view of the government proposal, which actually provides the legal basis for establishing a society for foreigners who do not have a residence in our country and legal persons, it can be concluded that the number of societies in our country will continue to increase. It is true, however, that this should be in line with the public benefit or benefit of the local community, where individual societies are located, but we must be aware that financial resources are also linked to the functioning of society. The funding area is not specified in detail in this law and there are also no clear obligations of the State to the so-called social sector. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we rightly ask how the country will promote the development of this sector in practice. The fact is that the budget for the non-governmental sector is shrinking, especially in the area of work with the elderly for social and social security services. There are problems in the government, problems in financing the operation of companies based on a voluntary level and which, last but not least, operate in the public interest. Competition for the acquisition of additional funds for companies would, of course, be increased in the event of such liberalisation. On the other hand, in the fight to gain the status of society in the public interest, the legal person of public law is in a privileged position, because they already meet the conditions for granting the status themselves because they have to act in the public interest and because they are already entering the social sphere with some financial capital. And it is the public interest that is the next area in which it is worth stopping. It is true that the law lays down the content or general conditions for the acquisition of the status of society in the public interest, which also lays down the content of the application submitted by the company responsible for granting and withdrawing the status. It removes what is important, according to our assessment, the condition that society must be the holder of national or international recognition prior to the exercise of its status or that it must make an important contribution to the promotion of Slovenia. The proposer is of the opinion that these are too strict conditions for obtaining a status, which, among other things, brings – status – also a 20% higher valuation in the acquisition of funds from the state budget. At this point, I ask the Minister or representative of the Ministry what is actually a generally beneficial activity. I fear or fear in the Slovenian National Party - that is also what the new government religious law is talking about - that the new law should finance or financially evaluate church activity in a manner such as the evaluated non-church activity within societies that promote culture, education and recreation of citizens. We have already asked the question of this to the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and at the time he said he was not responsible for this area. And let me say, in this way, religious communities as generally useful organisations will be able to apply to a number of calls from ministries, various ministries, including in the fields of work, family and social, government offices and municipalities, as before. Since the conditions are not clearly defined and because they do not need to be redefined by a specific law governing each area of operation, it would be very good to hear what the other criteria are, which each department minister has in granting the status and, last but not least, finance. I fear that there is nothing else in this law but another political kitchen to gradually move or move the civil sphere into the church area. If I am wrong, I will be really happy, but so far all indications indicate that we are right in this work in the Slovenian National Party. While the law introduces more control in terms of auditing, inspections, the government therefore wants to align or unify the social sphere with this provision, which imposes only additional obligations on companies in terms of complex financial transactions. However, the government’s desire to exercise greater control over society’s profitable activities, some of which were in the past, was commendable, because societies, which were successful, of course, in voicing, used the legal void for financial fraud. And let us end by giving serious consideration to the degradation of the voluntary part of this government in the Slovenian National Party. Voluntary work, which must be the foundation of every society, as it provides it with irreplaceable capital, and here I am not talking about financial capital and, last but not least, contributes to complementing state-owned activities in a broad social field, should also find its place and recognition in this law. Europe, if we are already adopting legislation at European level, sees in voluntary activities an extended country's hand, which contributes to the quality of life of people. Today, we are actually talking about a law that limits the functioning of societies, those societies that are based on voluntary work.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you. Member Vila Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u86	Thank you very much. It was expected that the views of the proposed law would be different, it was nothing special, not with the nature of the matter itself. It is clear that with such a multitude of societies as we have here, with so many people involved in these societies, there are different interests, even by definition, in societies, that different interests are formed in different legal forms in different societies. And it is also clear, of course, that for these societies, which are grateful for not being misunderstood, different options of influence, different interests, different influential people and so on. And it has to be regulated in some way. This law we are talking about today has a ten - year history, and in this ten - year history it has certainly proved to be a good thing to change. This is one of the attempts and it is right that this general debate has taken place because it limits excessive haste. At least we, in the DeSUS Group, do not now understand the form of a text to which it would no longer be possible to make any comments, to modify it, to supplement it, to improve it and so on. This shows the need to set up societies in order for individuals and new legal persons to fulfil their interests, thus showing this great need for the state not to be able to register [[?]] the whole space. Thus, there is a great need for people to organize themselves in different ways, and their needs, which the state or the local community cannot quite achieve, are trying to achieve in the way that this legislation allows them. In doing so, it is important both to be both non-profitable and profitable. For it is not possible to expect that all the interests relating to non-profit can be supported on a material and financial basis, so as to be able to satisfy all of this by means of budgetary resources. That is why another activity is needed, but within the framework of borders, within the framework of the rules that we are laying down by law. Societies are of great importance to us, and for that reason I think it is right to say that we are very high in the European Union after this organisation. So, societies are very important to intervene in those spheres where greater socialisation is possible, where it is possible to prevent social exclusion, where it is possible to participate, even if it does not have an appropriate social role, social status, social status, adequate financial resources and so on. In short, these societies allow for some other way of functioning society and meeting needs. Not only the individual, but also the needs felt by the state, but it alone cannot satisfy them all. Interestingly, with this strong crowd of societies, Slovenians are not a nation of footballers, but a nation of musicians. Most of the companies that work are companies in the field of lovers or music performers, and this is good, especially now that we celebrate cultural creativity. This, in which more societies are emerging, indicates the structure of our needs. It also points to where the country is weak, why we have 1,500 or how many fire companies already - because the state has not covered this space sufficiently, because it is probably not able to cover it properly and also because they are societies that have a hundred-year tradition that cannot be abolished, even if they are ever hypertrophyted, and even if there is something else that can be organised, financial and materially arranged. Housing societies are also very important - let's see how much there is from the statistics of societies that advocate adequate representation of the rights and interests of young people or students or those who are already retired. Therefore, there is no reason to limit it, but rather it shows that there is a real need to encourage as much flexibility as possible in the organisation and functioning of societies. However, it would not be right if they were naive and thought that societies were created merely out of kindness if they thought there were no mistakes, no abuses. We all know that's not what we're missing. And that would be good to prevent in advance as much as possible. In particular, those who for many years have been involved more or less in individual societies, we are aware of what shortcomings in societies can be observed, we are aware of what needs to be done so that individual societies can work better, but we are also aware of not only the possibilities, but also the actual abuses. We are also aware that it is not right for societies to just reach into the field of economy indefinitely. Today's catering law has been mentioned, which has tried to limit unfair competition and the abuse of societies and I think it is also. Economic operators too are likely to have to be protected, especially against those who abuse the form of societies in order to find the right way to find this non-profit activity. We in the DeSUS Group will support the continuation of this procedure. We don't think it would be right if we stopped him now. We believe that there is still time to discuss those who have the most rights and competence to say so, so it is only right that the debate continues. But it is also right to try to understand it in a way that does not partially protect the interests of one, another or another, even though we all know that firefighters or other societies have accumulated funds through the organisation of profitable activities over the years. However, this is not now prohibited; it must only be regulated so that unfair competition is prevented and that all others taking part in the social space will have an equal opportunity to cooperate in this. Therefore, the DeSUS Group considers that it is necessary to support the functioning of societies, to limit errors and abuses, and it also considers that the findings that have been made may sound too harsh and that there is no need to stop such discussions at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you. The position will be presented by Ambassador Maria Possonec on behalf of the Hungarian National Community. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u88	All in attendance have a nice greeting! In our country, the content of human rights and fundamental freedom to freedom of association is given to everyone and as such is defined in Article 42 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This provides the basis for a merger on the different interests of individuals in society. The life and functioning of nationality are mostly carried out in societies, in particular the numbers of cultural societies. That is why we are very interested in this bill because there are between 30 and 35 companies operating in our area of 6,000 nationalities with more than 60 different sections. From this point of view, I believe that, under the National Community Act, after Article 15, the President of the National Assembly should also ask for the opinion of nationality, which has not yet happened, but is not too late. We fight against assimilation, we fight for the preservation of identity and for the preservation of the mother tongue and culture of nationality. Our societies are certainly the most numerous civil organisations that are well-organised because they are well-registered, have their statutes, their world, their regulated funding, clearly defined objectives, their work programme, their name and other characteristics. The management of the members of the society at the annual general assembly shall submit an annual report which shall allow for an insight into the financial, material state of society. We support the solutions set out in the proposal for a social law, as it will put in place in Slovenia such a legal regime in the field of societies that will be comparable to more modern European regimes and will apply the principles and guidelines recommended by the Council of Europe to promote the development and strengthening of NGOs in Europe. But to make this law even better, we also believe that the public concerned must have the opportunity to mediate its opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you, Ambassador Pozsonec. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the SDS Group of Members, Member Rudolf Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Your Honor. The data that 19 thousand 246 companies were registered in Slovenia at the end of last year shows the extent of the area covered by this law. At the same time, this means a lot of different interests, but because the solutions must be universal, valid for all, we face a lot of conflicts of interest; which is almost ideal for someone else, it is literally brave for someone else. It is not to be forgotten that there are very different areas of interest from sport and recreational activities, because there are only one third of all societies working to help people around 2600, cultural and artistic societies, including about that many, educational 1800, to protect the environment and to raise and raise animals and plants, housing societies, development societies, political societies, societies for spiritual life and more. Some of these work virtually without any financial means and are only shared by the common interest of activities, while some companies without financial means cannot operate and operate with billions of dollars - relationships are mainly meant to be. Greater than the budgets of societies, more ingenuity must be shown by the management to provide these funds, as this does not allow its own activity. This applies in particular to sports companies where the sale of tickets is not sufficient to cover all the needs of society. It is a specific example of firefighting companies where their own activity does not bring practically any financial resources, their activity of protecting life, property, natural heritage, it is said, and the function of protection and rescue requires considerable resources for the acquisition of equipment and maintenance, as well as permanent education for ever-new and new challenges. The activities of firefighters in preventive activities are of particular importance, which is, of course, the best protection. And despite all the declared and in practice several times proven humanitarian activities of this Statute could never be obtained. The solutions to the new law could possibly solve the problem. In the case of firefighting companies, the field of business can be an example, since firefighters are practically merely giving in this area, especially with their work. Otherwise, there is an area of sport for which there is a great social interest where amateurism is intertwined, of course in terms of financial compensation, otherwise at a high professional level, and pure professionalism with completely different requirements, different work and different solutions. There are also combinations. In large systems, it cannot be expected that players will play free of charge and that coaches and others who are essential in the system will do their work free of charge with such intensity of work, and this is not disputed. Even at times, a contentious thought is not too materialistic to start and end with money. The problem begins in the way you work. Some want to work as hard as they can without taking into account the natural limitations. Our sports market has 2 million potential buyers, viewers, for example, and German 70 million. In particular, ties should respect this and set standards for our market and not for German. And that's why it happens to us that we have a rich infrastructure, including rich relationships. [[Here are the thought-based associations of societies]] Without societies, because their work simply ran out of money. And that's where the problems come in. Without large sponsors they simply cannot survive and most of the funds are not obtained through their own activity, tickets - I would mention the size of our market - are not sufficient. The new law must allow for such a way of financing that will not restrict sports associations. At the same time, we support tighter, more intensive control over the use of funds in the SDS. It is unacceptable that when a society is confused into some hundred million financial hole and recovery cannot be done, it is simply dissolved without consequences, without the creditors being paid in any way. That means everyone who doesn't do it is stupid. State intervention is necessary with stricter control and a level playing field for all. If the new law will be able to find a solution to the right treatment of societies - here I think mainly sports, which most of the means for their work and existence are derived from outside, it is said, with sponsors and patronage - and therefore there will be no additional complications and taxes, and they operate in accordance with the law, then the law is acceptable. Moreover, this law is also necessary. It is imperative to eliminate the abuse of gainful activities under the cover of social activities that endanger market elements, the abuse of the cessation of society, the sharing of assets in all its forms. Some examples of eccentric and planned abuse cast a bad light on the whole of social activity. These activities, in particular in some areas, have more than a century of tradition in Slovenia and we are a model in Europe, I think of firefighting, we need to preserve and cherish, and also protect against abuse. Hence, a law that must be comprehensive, necessary, perhaps even a little late. We are convinced that certain bookkeeping simplifications in small societies are welcome and additional controls are necessary for those with more than 200 million revenues to be checked. This is the only way that social activity will preserve its reputation and support for the public. But without public support, it's just not going to work and it's not going to work. Otherwise, all those who work or work in this sphere are themselves sawing the branch on which we sit. Social activity needs to be maintained, but it needs to be put on sound foundations and for all the same. In the SDS, we support the law at first reading. Finally, I would like to mention that if we follow the rules of procedure, a broader public debate is possible only in the National Assembly if we confirm the law at first reading and prepare a public presentation. It is said that there is a general debate, and then we proceed with the procedure. If we reject the law, we simply cannot carry out such a broad debate. We can talk about some virtual things. The law must be in the process. Also because we probably haven't said the last word yet, in the SDS we will support the law at first reading, so that we can prepare a wide public presentation of the opinions below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. The first one has the word of a Member of the State of Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u92	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In my debate, I intend to address only some of the issues that do not appear to be understood as opposition nagging over the bill's proposal, but are growing out of nature itself. The geneza of social activities in Slovenski has a rich tradition and in it I see the richest form of civil society organisation, which appeared everywhere where there were no appropriate institutions, where there was no one because we did not have our own country, including appropriate state institutions or other options. Let me remind you that, in fact, the birth of the first playwright world text, at least its performance, is related to the dramatic society of 1779, so that they do not just talk about firefighters. This could be joined by a number of other artistic, cultural, educational societies that have filled this space, which has been taken over or occupied by civil society in the name of democratic action. And so let me touch that first. In the proposal for a law, the equality of members is linked to the right to freedom of association. The legislative proposal should therefore ensure equality of membership in a more transparent way or ensure that the equality of membership does not remain only on paper, but that the law also incorporates mechanisms to determine whether the equality of membership is also assured and in practice enforced. The proposer withdrew here and left the basic documents with the internal organisation of society, but here the space is very open. The introduction states that at the end of 2004 there were 19 thousand 246 societies, and if it is to believe that more than a thousand societies are usually on the new ones and less than 100 die, then there are certainly more than 20,000 societies now. This means that one society of less than 100 inhabitants is established, but of course it is not possible to say with certainty how many societies each individual participates, and I believe that through this experience also membership in different societies we accept this marriage proposal and express doubts that, in so many different societies, it is possible to adopt laws and regulations that are suitable for all forms of society. It is the multitude and tradition of social life that directs me to the difficulty of taking on European models. And here, in particular, I draw attention to what appears to me to be a drawback to the fact that societies can also set up legal entities, state and local administrations, and this seems particularly problematic when they also act as distributors of public funds. It is already possible that inequality between societies is not yet possible to draw attention to the moments when, for example, a responsible person, or an agent, or a president of a society, a person in a prominent position, such as a minister who also allocates funds to that society, public funds, and even if those funds are distributed by public tender. The situation is certainly not equal. And just one more comment I would like to make, this is, for me, too much of an open 30th article, which discusses the possibilities of gaining a society in the public interest. If we read article 30, it can be said that, at least as far as culture is concerned, almost every cultural society is in the public interest. It is true now, they say, that 2 000 129 societies are in the public interest, and the question is how will the number of such societies be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you. The next on the list of applicants is Member Aloise Sok. He's not here. However, since there have been some changes, I will read the following five so you can apply. Next he will get the word Mikhael Prevc, followed by Boštjan Zagorac, followed by Franz Pukšič, after him by Miran Potč and Master Franz Žnidaršič. I give my word to Ambassador Michael Prevec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! It is also my opinion that it is right that there has been a start of discussions on the social law, and I am sure that there will be a lot of work to be done in this law. The fact is that the law that we have today on the table at first reading is somehow trying to ensure simplified registration and the business of societies, then this law is also somehow trying to ensure democratic and transparent business of societies and, last but not least, this law is also working in this direction to prevent the abuse of societies for the benefit of legal persons. Look, and maybe around society's acquisition, I'd say a few words, which actually allows me time. We talked today about a large number of all societies, and it was also said that all societies would be difficult to squeeze into the same basket somehow. For they are distinctly societies that act in an express public interest, and they are, not least, societies that involve members who provide only their own, only their own personal interests. And I think this is going to have to be handled in particular in the law. I have to say, I've been called by representatives of mountain groups. The fact is that mountain societies are extremely good for us, I will say, set to not least work exclusively either in the public interest or in the first place in the public interest. The fact is that, in recent times, mountain societies have been increasingly promoting mountain tourism and voluntary members of mountain societies are the ones who in the mountain huts they manage to generate some profit due to volunteerism because they work voluntarily. And the fact is that all this profit goes back to investment either in the cleaning plant, either in the electrification of the cabin, or in the arrangement of mountain routes and so on and so on. Maybe even more in the public interest are fire companies. And the fact is, if fire companies have so far carried out any profitable activity, they have done so in order to purchase the necessary basic firefighting resources for their needs, since the local communities as well as the state, unfortunately, do not provide them with sufficient resources. That is why I am of the opinion - and as has already been said in the position of our Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group - that we will continue to adopt this law on societies in particular. This is said to be the question that we will really require from the applicants below, especially on this subject, on this question that we have raised before and that I am not, after all, pointing out. Otherwise, I think it is high time that procedures for the adoption of this law were initiated, so let us, of course, accept it at first reading today, and then let us deal actively with it in second and third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you, Comrade Prevc. I give my word to Mr. Bostian Zagorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! The fact is, and some have already rightly found that some societies do not have sufficient resources to enable them to survive. Someone even mentioned that the sale of tickets was not enough so that these companies could cover the costs of their operations. However, if we look at just a few of the laws that we adopted in this mandate under this government, one of them was a hospitality law that made it impossible for societies to carry out hospitality activities, which, last but not least, represented an additional source and possibility of existence for some societies. I also have a few questions. First, what the proposer presents under a generally beneficial activity, given that it is diversified by several laws and gives certain rights to individual companies. Last but not least, in my opinion, society is the highest form of informal association, assistance, sports and cultural activities and also of human things such as animal protection. And this law allows these societies to be established today, and it takes up certain rights for them. And that's the kind of rights that someone can exercise voluntarily. In order not to remain with "someone", I will specifically state that it is the mayor of the Maribor municipality, who, from 2.2.2006, terminated or banned the operation of the Society for the Protection and Prevention of the Torture of Animals in Maribor and moved it to another place. Society had no right here, no chance. Nor does this law give societies that are engaged in any activity, but in particular in such a humanitarian way as to protect animals, this right to maintain in any way the possibility of their operation and existence. And this is what we miss in the Slovenian National Party - especially the rights of societies, but not the taking of these rights. Finally, I must tell you that a collection of signatures is already under way after the National Assembly, allowing Members to allow this society and to acknowledge its existence in Maribor and to prevent the will of one of the mayors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Franco Puksich. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! Although I believe it is good that the social law is thoroughly engaged in the entire complex in this area. But it is true that, as has been said several times before, it is so different matter that it is actually difficult to put everything within a single framework. Look, if I'm only comparing two segments or two of the societies in this law - today has already been mentioned several times. Like a hunting family. The hunting family is certainly doing a very useful job: protecting nature, animals in nature, feeding in winter, etc. On the one hand, this is certainly an unprofitable activity. On the other hand, hunting families are those who now have parallel hunting, and thus provide the means to be able to function, that is, profitable activity. On the other hand, if we compare societies to help people, and from this context, such as the Red Cross or over 135 years old, almost 140 years old tradition of firefighting society, they do not have the possibility of non-profit activities. Therefore, I think it is essential to point out in this case that certain matters should be done in amending the law on hospitality or in certain sectoral laws, such as the Firefighters Act. It must be said, however, that this multitude and tradition of some societies, not probably those thousands that arise every year, but those that have over 100 years of tradition, are important. People have set them up, not just in their minds, but in need. Surely the need for fellow humans in distress was in one way or another to help. Of course, for the preservation of the Slovenian language, Slovenian culture, our identities, over the centuries, also societies dealing with culture, language, etc. These are, in fact, the societies through which life has been in and is still in non-urban settlements. We can't imagine that all this infrastructure wouldn't work. I wish or would rather see that this law is in a package of other certain changes that would be urgently needed. I hope this happens in due course. However, I would ask the proposer or give him some thought. It says here: the association of societies - at least two societies. Yeah, I don't know, I think a relationship would be, if it were organized, connected to multiple societies. I don't think that's enough. It's supposed to be, I don't know, five or maybe something. The union is also supposed to go outside, perhaps through municipal frameworks. In short, this would result in a significantly higher quality support for that so-called acquisition of gainful activities or for obtaining funds through tenders. In general, if we come to the fact that in these societies it would not work as it does now, that people are working with the heart, that they are working with the heart, that they are working because they want to work voluntarily, and, of course, this volunteering is one of the great values that we have brought into this Europe, that volunteering is one great love if you want, with which we have been living for centuries in this area, and in these legal frameworks, it is necessary to do so in order to encourage this in order to contribute, through an instrument, to enable you to work in this area, that the funding system is increasingly complicated, the preparation of calls and so on. This should also be considered in the law on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, when we speak of the need, of course, through a memorandum, and then transferred to municipal budgets, for such small funds as we have in the municipalities, to be distributed through tenders. Of course, it is a matter of transparency, but another possibility would be for the municipal councils to distribute by name these funds by society, not that we have to start the whole machine for about 2 months of some work, the activities of these people who work there voluntarily to bring all this "paperology" together to make the legislation satisfactory. In this financial area, too, something needs to be changed in order to make it easier to work and to preserve this mass and traditionality, which I think is extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you, buddy Puksich. I give my word to Ambassador Miran Potsch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you very much. In view of the importance that I am giving to social activities, as well as to the law, with the emphasis on the freedom of association that we all speak about today, given the diversity of interests that bring us together and work in societies, I would like to talk about only one question, namely, that, in principle, the emphasis on freedom of association, with the principle of emphasis on the diversity of the interests that make us united in society, the representatives of most societies think that the law is insufficiently adequate for them to say that I will not say inadequate. They are not satisfied with the government's involvement in the drafting of this law, and they ask us, Members and Members, to give the Government and, above all, to them the opportunity and duty to reshape the content of the law in a more imaginative manner. I would like to point out that I am concerned that, even with other laws, there is an increasing number of civil society organisations, more and more societies are reminding me that the laws with which the government comes to Parliament are working either with or without their cooperation. I won't mention it because it would be too long. We also have many such laws at this meeting of the National Assembly. But where, then, with regard to the functioning of societies, it is imperative to draw up legislation with which societies can truly be satisfied, and not only in principle say that many things about the establishment, about the operation, about the registration and similar release, which can be partly true, but to a large extent not, because even after the regulation of these things, they have not been so complicated. We do not guarantee all necessary diversity, we do not provide sufficient initiatives. We are opening up the possibility of different regulation of the situation of societies acting in the public interest. In the area of financing, we are indistinguishable and the way in which public control of potential gainful activity is ensured and so on, has also become unclear in the current regime. All of this, I think, speaks for supporting the request, more than a request, because societies are not used to asking, they are always used to asking, including us Members and Members, to think about it. We well know that we have two options: whether we do not confirm the law today and thus impose on the government, in preparing the law, a more thorough discussion and finding specific solutions, or at least to ensure that there is a public presentation of opinions. After what you say to members of the coalition, I would believe that this time you will support it in your mother's working body. But we all know that public representation of opinions does not necessarily mean much. It means a lot to the extent that we give interested people the opportunity to express their views, but it means little if the government is not prepared to hear and heed these opinions, and this has happened to us many times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u101	Thank you. I give my word to a magician. Franz Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I would like to remind you of some of the solutions to the law that would suggest reconsideration. When we are talking about registering or establishing a society itself, the problem is that three citizens are needed, members of the same family or relatives at the level of the family. I think there's a difference between who can set up society and what society should do. Indeed, the activities of society should be linked to a larger number of members, not just three, which are sufficient for society to be established. It is also, of course, necessary to define the matter more precisely in terms of the conditions to justify the acquisition of the status of a society acting in the public interest. For what is now in the law is too extensive and it is possible to find a public interest in many ways, in a way that could then be carried out by one family, whose three members would set up a society, for example, to cooperate with the Slovenes around the world. This certainly cannot be bad, since they have a modest contact with our country, and a society or several such societies could justify public interest in a way that, with more frequent contacts and visits in those countries, this public interest should also be raised in the interest of our fellow citizens, from this title to certain resources from the State and purposefully spent them on travel. This is just an extreme case of possible abuse of these provisions. Last but not least, I think a special law should lay down the conditions and funding of societies working in the public interest. Well, since I have some time left, I would like to say the following - that a society working in the public interest could not be established in cases where this public interest with its authorities, ministries and departments covers the country itself, except in cases where there is too much insufficiency, where it should be precisely defined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Mojca Kucler Dolinar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Good-bye! It seems to me that the issue of societies is much more important than it may seem at first sight. That is why it is certainly good, and this has also proved to be a good thing today, that this general debate has taken place and perhaps even a public presentation of the opinions on this proposal for a law. As we can say, the family of the base cell among natural communities, society is also a basic cell among civil society organisations. And it's certainly a vital function of society to allow people to associate and participate. Societies that I know better are also very effective against modern globalisation trends, which, somehow, and indirectly, replace relationships extremely quickly with virtual communication, with all the negative consequences that these processes can have for an individual, but which remains in the classic sense of a social being. I therefore welcome the removal of certain barriers to the registration of societies, including the simplification of book-keeping procedures, of course for those companies that have lower incomes or revenues to the limit laid down by the law. On the other hand, I think it is an extremely important novelty to define a more specific definition of inspection supervision. To avoid any desire to engage in the wrong business and to play society, which we have witnessed in the past period. And even in this light, I see those provisions which make it mandatory to revise financial statements for companies that reach incomes above the limit laid down in the law, as well as a more precise definition of the liability of the responsible persons of societies. It is certainly appropriate today to listen to some of the concerns that arise with regard to the amendment of the law. We too will continue to study the law and may be able to upgrade it in any other provision. However, I believe that the proposal for a law offers sufficient solutions so that at this stage of the procedure, i.e. at first reading, we can see it as a law that can be further considered, and that is why I will support this law today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Member Happy Hwauc. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! I think that the role of societies in society is extremely important, important today, it was important yesterday and also, if we look at history, we actually have to thank Slovenians for their organisation in society for a lot of things, not only in firefighting societies, but also in some other cultural societies. I am therefore pleased that today's debate is critical enough to draw attention to some of the problems or open questions, to try to find solutions that will allow societies, whatever they are, to act and carry out their mission and function. Of course, I will also support a broader debate, given that we have 20,000 societies in which, I believe, more than 100,000 members, there is certainly no broader debate. I think that the law, what I have mentioned, shows an important role in society, also by simplifying certain procedures concerning the establishment, registration, transfer of headquarters, including bookkeeping, which suggests that in essence the law promotes the establishment of new societies. On the other hand, practice has taught us and has shown that all those who have operated or established societies have not had some noble and well-intentioned goals, but have exploited societies for possible different purposes. We are aware of cases where, under the cover of societies, a profitable activity was carried out, which was actually unfair competition for all those economic operators operating under the law, that companies used to play tax legislation, to work in black, and not to say anything else - to launder money and so on. That is why I support the purpose of this law, that, on the one hand, those who unite in societies because of some interesting activity, because of their wealth of self as a person or a wider society, in order to enable them to act, and that to those speculators - and not to use any worse expression - who abuse the institution of society to exacerbate the conditions here. And that's what this law brings. Earlier, I had heard some criticism about why the responsibility of the representative of society is increasing to the point that he is responsible for the obligations of society with all his assets. In the vast majority of small societies and those that actually operate within the framework that is intended for societies, I think that in practice this will never be problematic. It is problematic or will be where, of course, they have been operating in a society in such a way that they have neglected some of the basic economic legalitys where they have purposely operated beyond their capabilities and, of course, at a time when they have not moved forward, they have simply left the society to die or cease to function and move on. In these cases, some major sports clubs organised as societies are also known, and the state has not been able to recover its claims, let alone the other creditors. That's why I think that's the way it's supposed to be. The law also specifies in which cases the responsible person will respond with his or her property, not on average, but in precisely certain cases. Therefore, once again, I do not see any particular problems here, but in fact, such a solution introduces some serious measure of responsibility to those who represent societies and, in the final stage, also run these societies. So in this first reading, I will definitely support the marriage. However, I think that, through the debate and proposals, there will be some other solutions that will further improve the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you, colleague Hwauc. I give my word to Ambassador Bojan Kontic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Minister with his associates. About means society is worth saying over and over again, although we all know them well, their purpose, their effectiveness. In the local community, I simply can no longer imagine the actions of this local community without having societies put in place in this operation, let it be sporty, let it be cultural, to be humanitarian. Their role is certainly in what we are most aware of in recent years, when we face the problems of growing children, when we meet these children in the streets, and we know well that the societies of those organizations that are very successful in involving these children in their activities are in their activities, and in this way they are somehow pulled off the streets. When we talked in the past about societies, including about the law on societies, about the amendment of the law, I was repeatedly reminded that legislation also needs to consider how to enable those societies that are in addition to their activities to be mentioned above, to do more. Firefighters were even known for preparing, we call it garden cheers, but not for spending that money for themselves, for their members, for any conveniences, but mainly for spending it in their activities, in their operations. It is impossible for societies to survive only with membership and perhaps with contributions from local communities, and however these contributions are shared in individual local communities. Therefore, it is always on the one hand of interest that non-profit companies also engage in some kind of profitable activity in order to create part of their profits. But this profit is not to be spent on members, it is not to be spent on benefits, but this profit is to be placed on those funds that mean the further development of society and the further development or expansion of the scale for which the company was established. Although the general debate today is the first to address this law, it may also be good to note some of the dilemmas or perhaps the irregularities that are and should be addressed in this law. It will also be very important to consider how to form societies in a way that, while they are in society of a minor, it is right that there is also a person in society who is fully responsible for the functioning of this society. We also have many school societies where children from these schools usually unite, but it would still be necessary to ensure that the representation is in the hands of a full-year-old. In spite of everything we talk about societies, we cannot escape the fact that certain things are being misused. We have witnessed in the past how unsupervised societies have also provided services that they are not supposed to provide in the way that this has happened. The current 51st Article of this Act, which is being prepared at first reading today, also sets out the tasks of supervision, but we will have to ensure that control in these companies, which also engages in profitable activities, is possible, by pouring alcoholic beverages, so that all inspections that can help ensure that the service is safe will have access to these societies and can also exercise control as required by the other laws. In this way we will ensure security, and we will also ensure the quality of the provision of these services. Members of various societies warn that this law we are considering today is not a good law and that it needs to be amended. I propose that the Government, the competent ministry, listen to these comments and participate in inviting people who have dealt with these societies for many years and to listen to their comments and to incorporate them into the law. Now, of course, there are different ways: this law can go into a different treatment and be amended, but this is much harder than if the law somehow withdraws from the procedure and a new law is prepared in agreement with those who know the functioning of societies and who are aware of the responsibilities that these societies must have in spite of everything. We have been taught many times in this area by the government that the individual law is such that it cannot be complemented in the second reading and that the government is therefore generally opposed to the continuation of the procedure because it will draw up its quality law. I propose that this time it is also this time that the government prepares a new text of the law. As I said, whether in agreement or in harmony with the comments made by those who really get to know each other well in the functioning of these societies.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Roberto Battelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with colleagues! In the national community, we are studying this law, which seems to us to be a good basis for further consideration. However, I wanted to highlight a few things, given the experience we had in 1995 when the law was passed. We had no significant comments on the law at the time, and it was then adopted, otherwise by a completely different procedure than the laws now adopted. His acceptance took quite some time. However, problems arose in his explanation. Thus, the establishment of associations of members of the Italian national community, according to those interpretations, was defined as being unconstitutional. And for three years we have negotiated with the Ministry of the Interior so that we can even register these companies. It is now necessary to say that all international documents and instruments from the UN to the Council of Europe, the OSCE and so on are not binding, but we, as Slovenia, have acceded to those principles, ratified and adopted, i.e. put into domestic law, all UN instruments and the Council of Europe. Well, all these documents, of course, refer to the fundamental right of national communities, i.e. their members to establish their own societies. This is the basis of any treatment, legal treatment of the position of minorities in the world, in a civilized world. That was impossible for us. Which was not without consequences as one of the Italian communities split into two on such instructions from the Ministry and one group refused to leave the place of exercise of the right of its own society and set up its own society. This vaccination continues to be done to the detriment of the national community. This conflict is almost impossible to recover. We are talking about this so that such a situation cannot happen again. We are considering the possibility that national societies might be specifically defined in the law in order to avoid future interpretations that would be detrimental to the situation of national communities. Or at least we would like to take into account in the interpretation of this law the consistent Constitution, Article 64, where members of the national communities have the right to establish their own organisations, and any documents which I have previously mentioned and which form part of the internal law of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u111	Thank you. I invite Ambassador Mitja Ljubeljska to the floor. We're moving on. I call on Ambassador Ivan Grill to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I consider this proposal for a society law to be an extremely good proposal and such a debate as today can certainly also contribute to finding together some shortcomings, possible shortcomings and then try to address them further. In the discussion of the predecessors, I have found that some have views that this law restricts the functioning of societies. I don't see it anywhere, and I don't agree with it. In practice, this law simplifies both the establishment of societies and the records themselves, except in cases where the functioning of society interferes with constitutional provisions and in those areas where human rights are violated and in such cases societies may also be deleted or terminated by a judicial decision. This law certainly also introduces more order into the very functioning of societies. In any case, it does not prevent or prevent any restrictions here. I am also pleased that the proposaler has allowed the possibility of still allowing for profitable activities. Here, we know, there are a number of societies that are able to acquire resources by virtue of gainful activity that only allow them to operate in a basic way. As a typical example, there are fire companies here. Even if this gainful activity is abused, it is then possible for such a society to be prohibited by a judicial decision or otherwise to continue or even continue to exist in society. We know that societies have been, and will also be, attempts in the future to ensure that society is used primarily for the purpose of profitable activities and abuses of the legal order for abuse and exploitation. In this regard, I also particularly welcome this provision, where representatives of society also have responsibility and thus protect creditors. This is certainly useful, necessary and here I do not share the opinion of some predecessors who have tried here in small societies to generalise the matter so that some representative of a small society, due to ignorance, may be confused in the event of his responsibility in some major problem. I am sure that, in practice, such cases cannot come, they will not come. Anyone who assumes such a function will likely take it in order to act properly and in the interests of society. On the contrary, I have experience with a company, a sports company that has left 90 million SIT debts. And here, too, he made an effort to make sure that this society did not go "in bankruptcy" because for 90 million claims, creditors would be deprived and the irony of all of this was that all those who had certainly contributed to such claims had received several thousand Euros in the past, driving in cars, such that we could only envy them. And no one could hurt them. Now this matter will certainly be limited. The management of business books, as provided for by this law, is extremely flexible. Here we have a whole range of different options, the smallest or simplest societies will be able to manage, with a book of income and expenditure, the expenditure, the guide, which simplifies the matter to the minimum possible extent. For all those societies where we talk about big money, it is certainly right to conduct a demanding double-level bookkeeping and to introduce an internal audit itself. In this law, I also welcome this possibility of membership in the light of the conditions laid down in the basic act. It is certainly no longer possible to abuse or prevent membership of individual members on the basis of some personal offenses or anything, since it is now possible for everyone to be able to become a member and also to be a member under the conditions defined by the basic act or the statute itself. Even the observation I have heard today that societies will now have to do no red tape at the expense of adapting the basic acts in accordance with the new legislation, if we adopt such a law, is not true, since it is very well stated in the law that there is no need for any mandatory adaptation of the basic acts here, but only that, following the adoption of the law, society alone must adhere to such provisions as this law provides for. As I have mentioned, this law brings a number of innovations, advantages that may be added with some others, and I will support such a proposal of the law, and I will also try to contribute further to implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u113	Thank you. I invite you, or Member Anton Kokalj, to report. He's not in the hall. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr. Barvara Žgajner Tavš. He's cancelling. There's no time. I'm sorry. My word to Dr. Mitz Slavinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! We are discussing the law on societies and first ask ourselves who this law is intended for. It would probably be nice for companies to be focused on ensuring their further rapid development and to ensure their needs in this society. Unfortunately, many doubts are present, since the vast majority of societies oppose certain parts of this law, point out inconsistencies and point out that the law is too rigid, as there are many prohibitions and virtually no incentives. I certainly cannot accept the fact that, when reading this law, people can get tired of doing business and acting unfairly. All these changes point to society’s need to step on its toes now. I myself have also had the opportunity to detect individual cases where societies have abused legislation, where societies have also acted unfairly or at least not morally, but because of this we must by no means punish all others, all the vast majority of other societies and impose new obligations on them and what is the worst, including new financial obligations. As long as the large football companies cheated and simply shut down before the financial break, and then acted as new companies, as long as the clubs were established and the hotels were operating through this cover and everything else, then this is a matter of inspection to prevent this kind of work under the law and to leave the clubs, as I said before, the vast majority of clubs that do it legally, who do it with the interest of membership, to develop and be able to implement their mission. The companies are based on a merger based on a clear basis of personal interest. There are people who feel the need to do something, to connect, and in the vast majority of cases on a totally voluntary basis. And this volunteerism, for which they then pay for membership in this society, is not supposed to be professional. On the other hand, societies must also take some action in terms of economic initiatives and activities, as it is always more difficult, in terms of economic conditions such as the acquisition of sponsors, to find their economic and economic interest more difficult to support the functioning of societies and then, through advertising and other options, than companies could repay, to co-finance these activities. And that makes it all the more difficult, because in most societies there are no employees, and even fewer who would be better at accounting standards as well as other legal procedures, which are often somewhat possible to do so beyond the need and measure. As a result, to avoid any errors in most cases due to ignorance and ignorance, they will be forced to engage professional services. This will certainly reduce and weaken their business and the material situation itself. As regards the restriction of economic activity, we should certainly not throw all societies in the same basket and evaluate them as a percentage, since in small societies 50% means significantly different from in very large societies. On the other hand, much stricter criteria have been introduced for the operations and responsibilities of responsible persons and bodies in societies than in companies. And this will certainly not lead to people continuing to unite, to be willing to continue to act voluntarily and through this volunteering, activity, to provide many other things and activities that the country would otherwise have to do. We have already heard that many societies operate in a special public interest. These criteria are certainly as important as they will be to these societies, and this is, of course, my proposal, to ensure a more favourable operation, since in most cases they are humanitarian societies and those companies that take on certain responsibilities and certain activities that are of wider social importance, important for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. They often expose their health and not least their own lives. As an example, there have been many firefighters heard today, and there have been tragic accidents in the mountain rescue service, and unfortunately there have been accidents in the underwater rescue service. And at this point, I would like to point out that all of these missions, despite clearly changed values in our society, have performed voluntary, free of charge, in the best case scenario, they are reimbursed for their travel costs, their daily subsistence allowance or any meal, and that is still the custom in all these societies. And for this reason, I am certainly joining myself in holding a public debate on this law, withdrawing it from the government and thus obtaining a law such as that of over 20,000 societies bringing together a large majority of Slovenians, some in many different areas, deserve it. And to get such a law that will actively encourage this, which will allow for even faster development and easier operation, even in favour of the fact that the voluntary hours they invest will not have to be paid from which other financial resources, in the vast majority of course also budget. Once again, I call for public debate and for us to listen to those whose law is intended for us to take account of their proposals and to improve the law in the above-mentioned sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u115	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u116	Your Honor! In fact, there is a great deal of discomfort in this debate, at least for me, if I am referring to the fact that all the parliamentary groups have received a request, a suggestion from NGOs, from the association of the social organisations of Slovenia, which brings together virtually the whole spectrum of these societies, but none of them responds. That we have representatives in this law who have not spoken with representatives of social organisations at all; that there was a meeting - I have what these associations of social organisations sent - 11.10. at 1 p.m., where there were entirely other people, Mr. Repenšek, Mrs. Vida Kokalj, Mrs. Težak, Mrs. Sabina Dolinšek, and where this record says [[written by Mrs Sabina Dolinšek]] To withdraw the proposal from the procedure to first define the government until further negotiations with non-governmental organisations continue, to sign the agreement and so on. If it is a law that has been discussed many times this year and something in this national council that you are doing only what the previous government has begun, then this is the case. Indeed, for many years there have been discussions and the last two years of the previous term this law could not have been brought into the process because the desire and conviction of some of us and, of course, governments have to agree with non-governmental organisations in key matters what is what is appropriate to their needs, their options, ultimately, to which they are entitled to the Constitution, when they say, all citizens and citizens can unite, unite, only under certain legal conditions. If you look at about 20,000 societies, it's very incomprehensible to say that formal membership and those around society is at least half a million. If I add to the fact that I am alone in three, four societies when it comes to sports, when it comes to firefighters, when it comes to humanitarian activities for the third time, etc., you will see that there is much more. If you do not listen to these ideas, recommendations, requests, you have received in all the groups of Members of the application, and also this record that I am talking about, you are defending others here, so it is the absence of the sense that you are working the law for society on behalf of them and of course there must be a dialogue between the so-called government, non-governmental organisations or civil sphere. It would be useful. You will find it very difficult to find a country anywhere in Europe or anywhere in the world with such a tradition of social life, and it is free of charge to compare it in this law or in the opening arguments with some comparable countries, and they everywhere have this social life more modest than we have. Much less volunteering, much less diversity, much less areas are involved in this way, and in the end also to help the government, the local communities, especially when it comes to humanitarian affairs. See how with - if Minister Drobnič was here, you could tell how with - disabled humanitarian organizations etc., how many activities are carried out in this way and there is no need to worry about everything on the side of the country, etc. Of course, I would be reassured if someone here provided: with non-governmental organisations we have had dialogue, we have reconciled this issue, we have not reconciled this issue, it is in the national interest, the state wants to regulate it and it has to regulate it - it is also, I fully agree with this, it is necessary to lay down the conditions under which someone can organise, for what purpose, etc. But if the whole sphere says you're actually making it difficult for them, you're burdening them with their operation, I'm not talking about the fact that they're awkward, that there's mistakes, that inspection services don't do some things. I had a discussion with some sitting there, of course not with the minister, for years and years, why some societies that are hospitable during the day are closed and are companies and are operating in some other principles. This is not a matter of law, this has nothing to do with any regulation, but this has to do with the efficiency of state authorities - and no, Mr Prevc, for many years is a discussion about this, for many years. Of course, it didn't start now, it started for you when you came here. But that's why this question is so sensitive. My request - I know that this will be accepted so that you do not heed these suggestions from NGOs and will not sit with them, let the modest way out be at least through this public presentation of opinions and listen. I'd rather see these things spoken of by those who are concerned, but if we looked at who was with the representatives of whom all the organizations - whose sphere of social organization were at this meeting with you or in your house, we'd see that they're here from, if you want, the humanitarians, the athletes, until I don't know which ones are all but nothing. Nothing. And I understand that the government wants to have everything under control, that's in the nature of the current government, that's what we expected. However, that civil society initiative, the opportunities it gives all citizens and citizens of the Constitution, does not complicate it so much that they will not be able to apply these programming, political or otherwise, because they are organised in the party, it is an additional issue, but other interests. Therefore, it would make sense, if at least I hope, that there is so much credibility, that you will look at who on your behalf talks about what has been agreed and why others represent you here, and that those who have been there, at these meetings to explain why these things have not been accepted or told you why they should not be included in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you, colleague Anderlich. Member Kristian Janc has been announced for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. The Social Act is a very important part of Slovenian society, and with much of what my colleague Anderlič has said before me, I also agree with him. It is one specificity, firefighters, who certainly have the richest and longest tradition in the Slovenian area of volunteering, symbol of this story, one special story. One hunter on the other hand, culturers, sportsmen, all of this put in one basket, I find it very difficult. I come from an environment where we have extremely developed this social life in all segments, from vineyarders, if you like, hunters, firefighters and so on. I think that today's debate, which we are starting on this subject and first addressing it, will certainly require, in my opinion, some public debates. I don't think we should be afraid of that. Simple, that's helpful. If we did so under the company law, where it was also useful for others to say, those users, what weighs them, where weighs them, and how much better. I think that we are making a law that will give to this whole number of societies in Slovenia, a new one, too, a new one that will emerge around this and, of course, this step is certainly the right thing to do, that all those who volunteer in Slovenia will still be involved - and these are still very large in the periphery, maybe a little less here in the cities, in the countryside there is this very large and thank God that we have these volunteers, that we have firefighters, that we have wine growers, that we have those who can organize in a special way and make a strong contribution to the local community, the regional community and thus that life in the region and the community can work better. It is therefore important that we make the law "drink water" so that it has its contents and that this life in society will continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u119	Thank you. I invite Member Dimitri Kovacic to the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues, so far the legal regime of societies has proved to be inadequate in some areas. Of course, I am not speaking globally here, but in some areas the regulation of societies has proved to be inadequate. In particular, I am referring here to the area of control over the implementation of legal provisions, with many abuses of the activities of these societies that have used this status form for purely profitable activity. Again, I repeat that this is not a global problem, but in some segments. Cases are known where some societies had only social activity as a facade or mask, and it was followed by an actual primary catering activity, which brought them large profits, especially because they were exempt from certain public duties as a society contrary to other innkeepers. Moreover, such an activity certainly constitutes unfair competition for all other genuine guests by its basic economic activity, subject to all public taxes. Since control of such and similar irregularities and anomalies has been insufficient and insufficient, as this legislation has not been properly regulated, it has been time for us to get into the treatment and adoption of a new law that will eliminate many of the shortcomings identified in the current regime. I note that the proposed law is prepared in this direction and that the legal regulation of the field of societies with its content is comparable to modern European regulations. The law guarantees more consistently than ever the constitutional principle of freedom of association and also removes obstacles to the establishment of a society for legal persons and foreigners residing outside the Republic of Slovenia. It also simplifies the registration process of the company and extends the circle of societies that will be able to manage their accounts in a simpler way and also removes certain restrictions on the availability of the company’s assets at the time of its termination. The law also equates the conditions for the application of the status of society in the public interest. As it is said, the proposed law provides for a more consistent inspection of implementation and will make it possible to prevent, to a greater extent than ever before, irregularities and abuses committed by individual societies. I agree that it is not all in the legal framework, but in particular that implementation is under control, but, of course, if the marriage has also set a step forward in this direction, then of course, it is very welcome. In doing so, I should also mention the protection of creditors who could be harmed both by the injurious legal activities of the company and by the termination of the company. That is why I believe that the proposed law at this stage is a good basis for a quality debate, which in the future may also improve the text of the law, and thus a better and clearer review of societies and their activities can be established. Finally, the necessary order that we have so far missed in this area can also be established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u121	Thank you. To the word of the Member of the Holy Spirit, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow Members and fellow Members, nice greeting! The greeting is also valid for the Minister with his fellow workers. I believe that we are all present in the Chamber united, that the activity of societies in Slovenia is very well developed. This is also confirmed by the number of registered companies. We humans are by the nature of the being that we want to associate, to connect, and to help one another. Few people are lonely people who are close to being alone. I'm a member of quite a few societies myself, and I run a few of them myself. Society seems very important to me, especially because of our youth. It seems important to me that they can connect and work actively in societies as well. Young people who are actively involved in society should be involved in sports, cultural, firefighting, nature-protection, mountaineering, not to mention further, not in the inequality to go on the wrong path. They can relax a lot of their youthful energy by actively operating in society. As long as we have a rich range of societies that can attract young people, we will also help to reduce problems with vandalism, violence, addiction. With a well-ordered area of society, they can only acquire societies, and I am sure that the new law will have positive consequences, including in the financial field. It seems very important to me that the registration procedures are simplified to raise the ceiling for the simple bookkeeping of societies in order to prevent abuse for gainful personal purposes. However, I hope that this proposed law will not lead anyone, instead of creating a family and having children, to decide to set up a society and leave the family behind. The opposition's views repeatedly stated that it was not in a hurry to adopt this law. It is not in such a hurry that we should accept it in a short or urgent way, so we deal with it on a regular basis, and it is only right that we accept it without the time pressure on us. Whether the government or parliament are concerned: don't delay what you can do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u123	Thank you. Mayo Shirca, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u124	Good-bye! Today we are talking about an important segment of organised civil society, we are talking about societies. It is precisely that segment that we have heard many times about recently that it is the so-called segment of civil society and that there are sometimes other segments under it. In this context, especially when we are talking about societies in the public interest, in reviewing this draft law, which I believe you have drawn up with too light a hand, it raises the question when the Ministry or the proposer removes certain items which gave the public interest the conditions for them to obtain this status of societies in the public interest. To sum up, the main condition is that societies can demonstrate more significant achievements of their activities and, indeed, other conditions can also be accumulated in sectoral legislation. But this approach seems far too broad to me, for in the end these very societies, acting in the public interest, the company or state is calling for help in regulating and transferring certain public tasks to them or helping itself with them. Above all, this 30th article, or society that is carrying out something in the public interest, is also entitled to financial assistance in a lighter and more important segment and, after all, it is money and we are discussing it to a large extent today. Of course, I find this breadth of significant achievements in the functioning of a particular society, because it is unmeasured or difficult to measure, it can also be subjective, the Ministry sets this public interest, while at the same time it can have immeasurable widths - in the sense that, for example, the public interest or utility and the important achievements of the society of mathematicians and physicists are, for example, how many important people have been recruited into important functions in this society. Well, at the same time, I think it is more important that these public interests be more clearly defined and that they do not change into a so-called civil representation. After all, certain societies, on which we all today strongly agree to play a very important or almost irreplaceable role in our society, have been deprived of an important task which can act in the public interest. If I list only the company of Slovenian film workers, Slovenian musicians, Slovenian composers, Slovenian writers, playwrights and so on, as well as the association of sports organisations that were involved in the important law when it came to the appointment of their representatives to the world of RTV Slovenia, this function of public authority has been taken away. In short, I would like this area to be very, very developed and overcome by the possibilities that can be addressed in political decision-making. After all, if we look at the 2006 budget of the Ministry of Labour, it is important for companies that operate, for example, in the care of history, such as, say, the association of associations of disabled Slovenians, the association of associations of war veterans, the association of associations of NOB fighters and so on, a lot of resources have been taken away, while others - and we know which - several have been added. In short, I appeal that the debate that should follow define what this public interest is more precisely and not so loose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u125	Thank you. To the word of the apostle Joseph Školč.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In this general debate, it would be only at the beginning that it would be necessary to ask whether it is necessary, in fact, to put the whole and all the questions concerning the organisation of social life on a new footing. The 1995 Society Act was largely reliant on the regulations from before and, at least in my opinion, allowed for a wide variety of associations and associations to be organised informally as a society. It is true that we have heard here that there are some problems associated with the potential misuses of this form of activity for financial or similar frauds, where members are to take advantage or where ignorance is intended to cause harm to someone else. The question is whether this segment is so decisive that it is necessary to intervene in all other provisions. I welcome the Minister who is taking part in these important debates, and somehow I expect him to be able to draw from these conflicting opinions the move that will lead not only Members and Members, but others very interested in regulating this area. We have heard several times that one of the problems of this law is that, in fact, all societies are treated equally to unify them, except for the form of registration they usually have very little in common. I wonder if, in fact, it is possible to open up the possibility for different types of organisation and possibly leave certain additional conditions in the areas. Of course, these loose rules actually allow everyone to register anything, but at the same time, because of this great laxity, the control mechanisms cannot really be effective. It is difficult, except in some general respects, to exercise the serious control that one of the fellow Members may wish, but it is not to be felt, fortunately, by the material of the law. So this is worth considering whether it is possible to have only one type for all forms of civil society integration. What I think is worth considering, and at the moment I do not see enough arguments for change, is that in addition to individuals of society, legal persons can also be set up. It is true that we have heard that many things are so, but it is also true that, in fact, the Slovenian tradition and understanding of social life are linked to the activities of individuals associated with a particular purpose, not so many businesses. Companies may support this activity, and companies may have agreements with them for individual purposes. Finally, companies can use the form of foundations as a way to implement certain programmes. But then the form of society itself is not completely consistent. On the one hand, you say that companies can also set up companies and, on the other hand, members of societies can only be individuals. This is where there's some kind of break-up. And then there's going to be a breakthrough at that point where society is being controlled. There are members responsible for the business, on their behalf an agent. If this were consistently carried out, then, of course, it would be advisable for a company to consider whether the founder is not responsible for it, says the company. These are questions that come to me and need thorough answers. I am certainly thinking about this in the light of what colleagues in the coalition are saying that changes are needed due to possible fraud. One of the possible ways of abuse is by setting up a society to organise part of the activity in a way that avoids payment, such as certain contributions, re-scheduling certain funds and so on. From this point of view, this experience, which they do not have elsewhere, I will say, has been consistently carried out in this law on societies and does not have those mechanisms that we have heard a lot about today, which should prevent the misuse of the form of society for the purpose of diverting money for third purposes. One of the issues that comes to me is the question of this judicial protection of members of societies. I know, I think it's already after the current law that everyone has the right to become a member of so-called any society, this draft, this right is protected by the court's decision, but this is to some extent incomprehensible to me. It is not possible, for example, to establish a professional society, where it is also a criterion for joining society and in this regard it is not possible to engage with some broader social objectives. For example, I can hardly imagine asking, everyone here says that I do not know which societies, let's say that I would like to be a member of the Slovenian Medical Society and then lead these procedures - I don't know what their rules are, I'm giving a hypothetical situation, and I finally forced myself to be a member of them. Surely the operation of a certain, I will say, layman might overlap with the aims of this society, but I don't know what the point would be if there were any criteria, unfortunately I didn't verify that then in such an open way we were essentially protecting everyone's right to become a member of so-called any society, because it's also worth knowing that it allows a certain type of abuse. We have seen in various situations when people with buses come to various congregations and take over such and different organizations when they are established. And I am not saying that this solution is bad, but it is certainly worth considering before we fully legalize it. With regard to judicial protection, then, the question for me is why someone who wants to register society does not have this judicial remedy. So if his body doesn't want to register it, I don't think it's explicitly written, there are ways, when -- but if it is, I apologize. However, there are many things that would suggest leaving this discussion open and inviting others to cooperate and then codifying it in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you. The next on the list of reported discussers is Member Rudolf Petan. The next on the list of applicants is Ambassador Alenka Jeraj. The next on the list of applicants is Mr Jožef Jerovšek. The next on the list of applicants is Ambassador Rudi Veršnik. And the next and the last to be reported is Member Dušan Kumer, but I don't know if the time is still available - there is no more. Then I apologize. We have thus concluded the list of applicants or those who have applied for the debate and, given that the time for discussion has not yet expired, we have another hour available on our computer, which is a little slower. I therefore ask you whether anyone wishes to discuss the content of this item on the agenda under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. The Minister has already applied before, and so has his colleague Germich. Anybody else? [[No, no, ……]] Then both Minister and Ambassador Ljubo Germič have 5 minutes. However, Member Ljubo Germič has the first word and, finally, the final word of the Minister. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! When we read a law that we all agree that its content will have a very important impact on almost every one of us, because itself or someone very close to us is involved in any form of civil society organised in society. Today much has been said here on various sides about the role and importance of work in societies that actually have very multiple effects on life and the design of personalities, especially today, young people have been exposed. Of course, it is therefore very important how we will regulate this area. And today, it is once again concerned about the fact that, many times, whether the text of this law has been drafted, it is necessary to harmonise the various interests that we certainly have when we unite in certain forms of associations, with those that are being carried out on the ground, or those who are doing so on the ground. Today, it has been found that there is a large shortage of these arrangements to address this area. And today, we have also heard from coalition parties, as there will be opportunities to correct the text of this law, as we will also be able to approach the public presentation of opinions. I would warn you, Mr. Minister, that you are here today representing the government, that the opposition may be taken as someone who opposes a priori. But it may also be taken as someone who warns with his arguments that some things are not done as they should be done. And here I point only to the government's position with regard to one other law, to which the opposition has also warned that the text is not harmonised, and today the government writes that we should postpone the decision on this law, which the opposition has proposed to do so, but you have not heard the arguments in the substantive sense, so today the government is in trouble. That is why, of course, there is a perfectly logical question today, which is on the table, whether we can continue, given that there are many arguments that solutions in this law are not such that they can then be upgraded in such a text by presenting opinions, by second reading and then by third reading, and whether it is more reasonable that this text of this law, which regulates such an important area of so wide a spectrum that you are only as a carrier you need to coordinate, can make a reasonable withdrawal and respond to the kind of concerns that are here today, not only from our species, so in the public, in life that reminds us today that the solutions that are here in this text are bad. If I only say so, given that we do not have an in-depth analysis of why the existing law is bad and we are transferring it to the new law. Here you state that these solutions were good in the existing law, but that you estimate that it is necessary to do more for the wider society to give the possibility of establishing societies to legal persons. Today we have heard a number of serious concerns and in the field you need to know that there is much, much damage to people who work voluntarily, on an amateur basis and sacrifice both their time and their resources, but on the other hand there are also, for example, some who use the organization of society to create, say, certain profits also through this solution. And whether what we're offering and trying to arrange is that we will no longer be able to limit it - I don't think so. Another very important question, which is, you take responsibility for representing society. Today this has been said, the fact is that representatives do not answer for their mistakes. I ask you whether, because of individuals who will always take advantage of all the gaps in the law, we will ask many, many representatives, the presidents of societies, who are largely on a totally voluntary basis, that they will want to take this responsibility when they sometimes take risks consciously at risk, so that in certain segments they will, of course, acquire certain resources to work.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u129	Comrade Germich, time. Thank you. The last submitted for discussion under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be the Minister. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I would first like to stop at the point that the government has taken the easy preparation of this law. It's not like that. In this mandate, the government has held a very large number of consultations, a very large number of meetings. With me, co-workers who have also sat at these meetings, there are records, one record can be presented to someone, does not mean that he is the only one. At that time, the government held separate and joint meetings with more than ten companies, associations and so on. In fact, there was the preparation of a change in the law on society at the initiative of the then social organization council, the current association of social organizations, and they submitted the first draft. Two representatives of the union actively participated in the working group at all times, it is said, in the working group of the Ministry. Last year we held a broad debate on the initiative of the State Council and on the initiative of the association of social organisations in the state world. I apologize to those Members who may have been present at this debate, but as I recall, there was no Member in this debate. However, other interested public were present, where the debate was very much under way. Most of the things included in this law are included at the initiative of the Council or associations of social organisations. Certainly, however, those requirements that speak of responsibility are not included. In the law we raised the threshold for bookkeeping, so that the book of income and expenditure is now raised from one million to two million, and simple accounting remains at a level of up to five million. So for most societies - because most of you have talked about most of you today, so I'm going to talk about most of it myself - most societies, 47% of the societies fall into the business area of up to one million assets in the past. Now, according to our assumptions, over 50% of societies will fall into the management of the simplest bookkeeping, just a book of revenue and expenditure. So we can't talk about creating new responsibilities for them, a new job. It is clear, however, that for some of the largest organisations that deal with very large money, and which are - some among them - I must say - already have had audit procedures on their own initiative, we are now trying to ensure that all these associations need to be audited. It is exactly 53 such associations or societies from exactly 19,737 societies, as we currently have registered in Slovenia. I should have said that the government didn't want to rush this law, so she filed it on a regular basis. We want further discussions on this. We will take into account all initiatives that will lead to the rationalisation of the work of societies and which will limit the potential for abuse of societies. Today there was also a lot of talk about public interest, about public interest societies. This law lays down very generally the provisions which may be of public interest to these societies. This is because legislation in specific areas sets out in detail how this can happen. Several details have been presented that speak in other laws or even regulations that exist at this time in certain ministries. None of this is in this law. There's only one way to determine these societies. It also seems very important to me that we must in some way prevent the abuses that have taken place in the past. Several different inspection services are in charge of companies’ operations and not just one. This new one, which we are setting up, is said to be an inspection by the Ministry of the Interior, which will be able to determine whether society is abusing the work, so to speak, of the company's income from gainful activity. And it seems particularly important to me in this profitable activity to say that it simply does not hold that societies will not be able to use their money. Companies will be able to use their money, companies will also be able to use this money for their regular activity, but of course they will not be able to use this income from these activities for private purposes, some individual from this [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm closing the debate. Excuse me, excuse me. Mr. Germich. No, no, no. You already have. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle. What would you like?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u132	You'll say, but I think [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u133	Mr. Squeakl, you want a procedural question?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u134	No, I would if it were possible to discuss it, but if it wasn't possible to suggest it, let me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u135	It's us. My predecessor asked if anyone else wanted to discuss it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u136	Look at the chairman, about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u137	You did not answer [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u138	You can just, allow me, procedural proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u139	And I conclude the debate. Would you please? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u140	I have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u141	We have followed the established agenda, the last one we have given to the Minister, so please, I cannot give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u142	Procedural President, President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u143	Excuse me? Procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u144	Look, my only procedural proposal is, of course, Mr Minister has spoken now, he said a few things that, of course, should be answered, especially when he was talking about what the Inspector would do, because I think he was a little confused about what the tax inspector should be doing, what the Court of Auditors is doing, if we can discuss such a procedural proposal in the sense that we would, of course, allow the rest of the debate to be shared among the debaters, if anyone else wants to.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I would say once again, the debate is concluded by procedure. It went well in the order in which we were approved and as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 29th agenda or at the latest at 20.55 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 29. On the eve of the summer plan for development and renewal of motorways for the year 2006. The annual plan was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the annual plan. Mr. Minister, Master Christmas is on his way, so I'm asking him to extend his journey to the pay phone. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u146	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. On the basis of the Resolution on the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways, adopted by the National Assembly in February 2004, intensive construction of the Slovenian motorway network is taking place, which receives increasingly clear faces, both on the motorway cross itself, which is already complete in one leg from Maribor to Kopra, while the other leg from Karavank to Obrež will be completed by the end of 2008, as well as, of course, on connecting motorways to the cross itself. I'm thinking of a vipavska and pomurska highway. This brings together the internal, in particular the inter-regional integration of the country and its appropriate integration into international road traffic flows. The scope of the annual highway development and renewal plan for this year is far the largest in the history of the implementation of the national highway construction programme. The estimated resources for the implementation of the annual development plan and the restoration of motorways for 2006 amount to 170.63 billion tolars, or 25.9 per cent more than the estimated resources in the Resolution on the National Road Construction Programme, which provides for a realisation of 135.54 billion tolars. The bulk of all construction works will be as follows in 2006: the beginning of construction on 47,5 four-way motorways, the transfer of traffic to 17 kilometres of four-way motorways, 2 kilometres of connection and 3.3 kilometers of connecting roads. And then we continue to build on 59.2 four-way highways, on 18.6 kilometers of fast roads and 5 kilometers of connecting roads. Finally, the preparatory work before the construction begins will take place on 20.4 km of four - lane highways. The value of works on sections that will be dedicated to transport in 2006 or will start or continue construction and preparatory work before the start of construction in 2006 is thus 105.8 billion tolars. Some state-owned connecting roads will also continue to be built, allowing for better binding of wider urban areas to 5 and 10 corridors. The value of these works on connecting roads amounts to 1.5 billion tolars. The preparation of project technical documentation and the purchase of land and other properties will take place on those sections that will start building after 2006. The value of part of the preparation of project technical documentation, here it is for motorway sections with an additional programme, including for the third development axis in the north, is 592 million tolars. The value of purchases of land and other properties is 60 million dollars. For the investment renewal of the motorway, funds amounting to 10.2 billion tolars are foreseen, and the estimated costs of introducing the new electronic toll system in free circulation amount to around 700 million tolars. As regards the financing of the national programme in 2006, the 2006 budget of the Republic of Slovenia will provide funding for the construction of motorways of 5.9 billion tolars and from the EU Cohesion Fund is expected to provide 2 billion tolars. It is envisaged that loans from international financial institutions will total 40.4 billion tolars. The bonds, depending on the situation in the financial markets, will be issued at almost 80 billion tolars and the refinancing of financial obligations under the Dars Act at 6.7 billion tolars. The concession fee will amount to EUR 20 billion in 2006 for the concession contract and an additional EUR 500 million will be provided, while the VAT refund will amount to EUR 15.3 billion. As has already been said, the estimated resources for the implementation of the annual development plan and the restoration of motorways for 2006, 170.6 billion tolars. Thus it can be understood from the above that the construction of the Slovenian motorway network is evenly distributed throughout the country. So many, honourable Members and Members, for the introduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The annual plan has been considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother, so I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Frantz Kangler, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members, representatives of Darsa, Minister, representatives of the government! At its 11th meeting, on 17.1.2006, the Committee of the National Transport Assembly considered a proposal for an annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways for the period 2006 which was forwarded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia pursuant to Article 3a of the Company Law for the Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia. The introductory explanation is the Minister, Mag. Janez Bozič stressed that the scope of the 2006 annual plan is the largest one to date, amounting to SIT 170.637 billion, which is 25% more than defined in the Resolution on the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, for the preparation of project technical, spatial and other documentation, provision is made for 592 million and for the purchase of land and other property legal works for 60 million, and for the construction of highways and other roads for a total length of 173 kilometres, provision is made for SIT 115.10 billion for other tasks under the annual plan, and funds totalling SIT 710 million. Transportation will be given 22.3 kilometers of highways and other roads, and construction will continue at 21.8 kilometers. The construction is expected to start at 47.5 kilometers and preparatory work will take place at 20.4 kilometers [20.4 km]. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in its opinion, recalls chapter 7, which introduces a new content in compensation for the performance of the contract, which presents the amount of funds to be determined in Dars for the tasks relating to the construction and renewal of motorways and financial engineering under a contract concluded with the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that the presentation of the intended funds would be clearer if the legal basis was also precisely stated. The discussion, which was attended by almost all members of the Committee, drew attention to the disagreement between the Resolution on the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and the attached and highly anticipated maintenance at the expense of a drastic reduction in budget resources. Then there is the question of the amount and the period of repayment and the hiring of loans. The questions raised by members of the Committee also related to the dynamics in the use of cohesion funds and the criteria for prioritising individual sections, in particular the quick roads to be built. The members of the committee were interested in the project of the free movement toll system, as well as in the possible increase of tolls and the relationship between toll classes for individual motor vehicles. The Committee considered that the current system of tolling does not guarantee an equal treatment of users, and that only two of the five planned additional toll stations were also problematic. Members of the committee requested an explanation of the progress of works on individual sections of motorways, such as Pinke-Lendava, the connection to Pesnica, Slivnica-Gruškovje, Markovci, Ločnica-Kronovo, as well as the connection of individual areas to the motorway system through the third development axis and the attachment of the cabin part to the motorway system. Representatives of the Ministry of Transport and Dars explained in their replies to the questions raised that the development of motorways and other roads is crucial for the preparation and adoption of project technical, spatial and other documentation, property law and procurement procedures. With regard to the establishment of a free movement toll system, pilot testing of the interoperability objectives of the whole system shall be carried out. Two additional decisions were also proposed and were not adopted by the Committee. Following the conclusion of the discussion, the Transport Committee adopted the following decision: the Committee of the National Transport Chamber, following a discussion under Articles 112 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at its meeting to consider and adopt the following decision - pursuant to Article 3a of the Law on the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia pursuant to Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at its meeting, adopted a decision, agreeing on an annual plan for the development of motorways for 2006.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber, Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u150	Thank you for your words, Prime Minister, and for your kind greetings to the Minister and colleagues and colleagues! The 2006 Annual Road Development and Renewal Plan is one of the largest projects in the year, as activities on motorways will take place on 173 kilometres, and the value of these works is around 115 billion tolars. So it's a lot of miles, it's a lot of money, which suggests the importance of this project. During the period so far, we have always tried to pay particular attention to the deviation of investment values from the planned ones. Here we have always encountered the fact that geological conditions often interfere with or affect the deviation of investment values, that it has also changed or increased the complexity of the objects on the routes, that the course of the route as originally planned has also changed depending on the consents issued, particularly the nature protection or environmental conditions. However, sometimes there has been a decrease in investment values. If we touch on the resolution of the national programme for the construction of motorways, we can find that it sets out the total volume of works carried out and that there should not be a greater deviation of investment values than 10% in five years. The 2006 programme shows that this condition will not be exceeded or that there will be an increase of 3.7% in investment values from 2004 to 2006, which is within the limits of the allowed or expected derogation. The restoration of highways with an increasing number of kilometres or miles of highways also becomes one of the most important items in the annual program. This will require 3.2 billion tolars to be restored and 2.2 billion tolars to be restored. We also miss an analysis of how we can expect this maintenance to take place in the future, as maintenance will certainly be one of the major financial burdens of this motorway programme. Of course, it would be important to identify the causes of road damage and how to approach this in order to reduce it in the future. The customs system is always one of the main themes in the resolution or in the annual programme. It is important for the toll system in the 2006 programme that the start of the transition of the existing electronic toll collection system is envisaged for all toll classes, i.e. the ABC system, so that this is certainly one of the important gains that will relieve, in particular, the congestion at toll stations. It is also important to introduce a study to introduce electronic tolling based on microwave technology or on satellite vehicle positioning. This is an important approach and the results of these studies will probably be very important for the coming years. What we need to become increasingly aware of is the repayment of principals and interest in the annual programmes. We must be aware that the construction of motorways began in 1994 and that a number of commitments arising from the loans already hired are being paid. By already tracking the number of 26.5 billion tolars in the 2006 programme, this is certainly one of the areas that needs to be analysed in some detail if we are to control this system in the future. Indeed, the financing of the plan can show that over 40 billion loans in international financial institutions are foreseen in 2006 and that some less than 80 billion bonds will be issued. So it's a total of 120 billion high debt in 2006. In doing so, we must find that the earmarked funds, the gas toll, are falling to a total of EUR 5.9 billion, even though the resolution provides for 40 billion, and that this year's concession fee will be 20 billion. And if we look at a resolution that speaks of providing funds of 135 billion and that the 2006 plan foresees 170 billion, it speaks of this plan being extremely extensive. However, it is important that, by analysing the derogation from the resolution of the national programme, we find this derogation mainly with regard to sources and, in particular, with regard to the acceleration of construction. These are the two most important features of this programme and, of course, we are starting with a new electronic toll system. We must point out in the Social Democrats' Group that we want, above all, that the programme for the construction of motorways should be within the framework of a possible programme and, above all, has been adopted, which would ensure the long-term implementation of other connecting roads, which are extremely important in order to ensure coherent regional development throughout the Republic of Slovenia and not only at the highway. Therefore, the Government's decision to drastically reduce the petrol toll allocations in the 2006 programme can be identified as one of the most negative facts in the 2006 motorway development and renewal plan. Therefore, in future annual programmes, we also expect the government to present in particular the impact on the financing of the additional motorway programme, namely the impact of debt, change of resources, because there are very high expectations and concrete expectations, both in the third development axis, which the government has finally included in the 2006 annual programme on the basis of the government's visit to Koroška, but we find that the debt to the realization of the third development axis, namely the linkage of Koroška to the motorway cross and, of course, the links of Dolenjska. Also the new 3a development axis from the Ljubljana ring through the Škofljica Oblast to Kočevje is certainly one of the axles, which is looking forward to the government's response on how it will implement this 3a development axis. The projected fourth development axis of Bovec - Tolmin - Desired with a branch towards the Poljanska valley and with a passage towards Idrija or Logatc is the direction, of course waiting for an answer, when and how construction on these sections will begin. In short, the biggest disadvantage of this programme for 2006 is to move away from the additional programme and, of course, to move away from the development potential of some regions that are not included in the motorway cross. And of course, if this analysis were to be more concrete, this programme would indeed be the one on which we could say that we know what we are accepting, of course we will confirm or vote for the 2006 programme, because it is, however, the implementation of the established and difficult to expect new sections, and we hope that the data that we will receive on the basis of additional analyses will be such that other places other than that cross can also be expected to develop in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat, New Slovenia, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u152	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, honourable Minister with fellow Members, distinguished Prime Minister Dars, distinguished colleague and colleague. In the New Slovenia Group, we firmly believe that the involvement of the Slovenian motorway cross in the European motorway network for the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union countries is strategically linked. It is therefore important that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia carefully examine the proposal for an annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways for 2006. In the New Slovenia Group, we have examined the document and will also support it. We estimate that it is right that the annual plan for the construction of motorways in 2006 has been urgently accelerated. In the Republic of Slovenia we still do not have inter-regional highway connections, Slovenia is still not motorway-bound with neighbouring countries. That is why in New Slovenia we support the construction of the Slovenian motorway system as quickly as possible, of course in an optimal way, not on the basis of the quality of construction. The starting point for the preparation of the 2006 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways was to complete those sections and sub-sections already under construction and their completion and transmission in 2006 are technically possible. The planners were obviously guided by the fact that the construction of motorway sections on the priority directions of the Slovenian motorway cross on Gorenjska, Dolenjska, Pomurska and Štajerska motorways is continuing as quickly as possible. This has given priority to those sections where tolls can be collected. In particular, the following criteria have been taken into account; the scope of the contractual works and the contractual obligations entered into, the size and structure of the current transport burdens, the size and structure of the anticipated transport burdens after ten years, the possibility of collecting the toll, the already secured domestic and foreign loans, the already invested financial resources, the adopted State Location Planning Regulation and the state of the land purchases and other real estate. The part of the document that discusses the physical plan for the construction of the motorway is that in 2006 we will hand over the traffic of a total of 22.3 kilometers of four lanes. Together, construction will continue at 82.8 kilometres in 2006. Together, construction will start in 2006 on 47.5 km of four-way motorways. And together, in 2006, the preparatory work will begin at 20.4 kilometers of four-way motorways. The financial resources for the implementation of the 2006 annual development plan and the renewal of motorways will be budgetary resources for the construction of motorways and cohesion, concession fees, loans from international financial institutions, bonds issued, value added tax reimbursement and other resources. The resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways sets out the consumption for the development and renewal of motorways in 2006, amounting to 135.5 billion tolars. With the 2006 annual development and renewal programme, the planned realization of 170 total 5 billion tolars amounts to 126% of the implementation envisaged by the resolution on the national highway construction programme. Resources will therefore provide 170.6 billion tolls or 126%, as foreseen by the resolution on the national highway construction programme. Motorways are not only the largest Slovenian project of the century, the first major project in Slovenia, which, at the turn of the millennium, at the transition from the industrial to the information age, in the light of the natural development, could coordinate and direct the key aspects of spatial, economic and cultural processes, connect the existing network of roads and cities, linking the traditional logic of migration with European transport and development flows. In short, the highway program could be a bond between those universal civilizations, who no longer forget that they can stand and survive only on the solid foundations of an autonomous culture. As it is said, the New Slovenia Group will support the 2006 annual programme for the development and renewal of motorways. We also expect this document to be adopted by the State Assembly without a vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Kangler has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u154	Thank you for the words of the honourable Member and Members, representatives of the government, Minister, representative of Dars. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will mention the decision, the decision on consent to the annual development plan and the renewal of motorways for 2006 with great joy. This is an annual plan, the 2006 plan, which is the most important document that this National Assembly can accept for the further construction and development of highway infrastructure in Slovenia and other infrastructure directly linked to motorway construction. Of course, as the Minister mentioned in the programme itself and the performance itself, this is a 25% increase in the intensity of construction in the 2006 period, which is a very encouraging news for the Slovenian space, which is bound in any way, either to the user, or to the one which is directly building roads and which is business-related to the system as such, the construction of motorways. We wish that the implementation of this decision, which we will adopt today, will run smoothly so that the purchases of land along the route, spatial plans and some maintenance will go as planned as they were set up in Dars. We would like to point out in the Slovenian People's Party that we must not neglect certain ideas and projects that run for the third development axis, which is also directly linked to the construction of the highway cross. We have talked a lot recently about the third development axis, including the fourth, but I would like to stress the need to draw on all the possibilities, all the resources that are any given and all the opportunities and opportunities that we can also draw on the third development axis of the resource from some of the funds in the European Union. When the project documentation is completed for the third development axis, we are convinced that the third development axis can be a new segment, a new development and a new more coherent regional development can provide for all those places that are somewhat remote from the highway cross and the programme. I therefore stress once again that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will mention a decision on agreement on an annual road renewal plan for 2006 with great joy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac, Slovenian National Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! We have before us the proposal for an annual programme for the development and renewal of highways for 2006. This is a type of document which, due to the chaotic state on Slovenian highways, cannot be opposed and would be extended. I'm glad the government's representatives are still here, given the financial resources we've approved, I thought you were already on the road. I also expect that in Koroška, given how much money we have approved today and last Thursday, you will make sure that tunnels to Ljubljana as soon as possible, that there will be no need to spend so much money to buy the land on which the route is to take place, of course at the expense of taxpayers. The fact is that no plan has so far survived in the form we have adopted here in this house, sooner or later there have been changes, so that voting on whether or not to be in favour of such a document is not that important. It is true that with this plan you have covered everything in Slovenia to ensure that, what is bad in Slovenia, you may have left some local road somewhere, but this is more by mistake than consciously, but of course the question is at what price. A few words must also be said about transparency. The very transparency of finance in the construction of highways in our country was the biggest problem and somehow a vague fact that we have become accustomed to in this house. We therefore fear in the Slovenian National Party that the issue of Darsa's new bonds will continue the established practice so far, if we know that the country has issued bonds in the past, especially when there has been speculation in the middle and with a view to concealing financial flows. In the Slovenian National Party, we have repeatedly pointed out that there is no transparent way to finance the construction of motorways through the issuance of bonds, which has led to a shift from the planned construction plan and, on the other hand, the growing public debt and the directives to state-owned undertakings for the purchase of these bonds, and we all know that they had quite a few difficulties in the renovation of these. I also wonder if we know that we are still missing 800 million euros to be provided for the final implementation of the highway plan, where and where new bonds will come from, or perhaps a new debt will come from? The fact is, last year this National Assembly adopted a resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways and, with every new annual plan that we are adopting here, there is a departure from this resolution, which we have confirmed here. Finally, I must say that, in addition to transparency, as I have already said, we are also concerned about the implementation of the annual plan, but, as we have said at the outset, it is not essential that an individual member vote that the government of the coalition confirms this, that the state will have no excuse for not having an annual plan and cannot build a highway for this. You now have enough funding, indeed, not on your own account, but on a foreign basis, so, plenty of happiness and success and I want you to finally make one annual plan come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. A priest on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u158	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister with Colleagues, Honourable Colleagues and Colleagues. The DeSUS Group will support the annual programme of the 2006 development and renewal plan and the construction of motorways. It will be supported because it is based on the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways, on the Dars Act, on the law on the provision of earmarked funds, on the conclusions of the Government concerning the speedy construction of the port of port and, of course, in the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 and 2007. We will also support this annual plan in particular because it finally sees the completion of the last part of the Karavanke-Croatia motorway, which is so far past Trebnje, 22.5 kilometers long, and, of course, we remind ourselves once again that it would indicate that it would reflect on the construction beyond Trebnje, which should have been after the information available so far, because it will go high on the slope, which is 10 billion more expensive than the lower version, but, however, it is important that this road will be built as soon as possible and that this link will finally run. This annual programme will also be supported by the fact that even more funds have been provided for it than previously foreseen, which means that the country, together with Dars, has decided, of course, to upgrade motorway links as quickly as possible, and in particular to complete the motorway cross in the Republic of Slovenia. It is also worth supporting this annual programme due to the supplement that was accepted at the expense of the fast road Dravograd-Arja village, as well as some other sections that have come into this programme, which will connect those environments more quickly in the country and make it possible to connect also externally. In short, this programme is expensive, but our Group of Members will absolutely support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Ms Maria Possonec has the floor, on behalf of the Hungarian National Community.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u160	Nice greetings to all present! In his introduction, Minister Bozič stated that the construction of motorways must be transparent. It seems so, but it is too late, for the delay in building the highway infrastructure in Pomour has left irreparable consequences. In 1991, the urgent direction of the east-west highway was amply announced. Since then, 15 years have passed, and different highway plans, national programmes, and so on have been adopted. The money was enough, but the construction of the east-west highway did not have an advantage, with the excuse that there was not enough traffic. We're where we are today. Every year from Maribor through narrow villages to the Hungarian border drives a million and more trucks. The 90 kilometers from Maribor to the Hungarian border lasts two to three times longer than to Ljubljana. This traffic drives out of the villages there all those who have the choice to leave the villages. The youth is leaving, and the province is impoverished and the population is ageing. This is not enough allowances for a better future for this province. Nevertheless, someone is responsible for money laundering, stalling, and construction elsewhere. It is necessary to appoint those responsible for such a situation to be aware of their moral responsibilities for the destruction of the province. I do not care what political options belonged to, I believe they must bear at least the moral responsibility for the impoverishment of Prekmurje. This situation lasted until 2004 when the then prime minister was mag. Anton Rop visited Prekmurje and promised to build the Maribor-Hungarian border highway until 2008. Thank him! The current Minister of Transport is still following the agreement and the problem of Prekmurje is taking it seriously. I sincerely hope it stays that way. One thing is certain: Prekmurians will no longer be allowed to pull on their noses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u162	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the rest are present! Slovenia is undoubtedly at an important strategic point, which is also reflected in the transport sector. There is a crossing across our country of important European transport corridors, especially the fifth and the tenth. Appropriate road links are therefore not only important due to coherent regional development but also due to appropriate links within European transport links. Surely the construction of the highway network is one of the largest regional projects in our country. In our view, however, an important turning point in this area is also reflected in the fact that, due to the accelerated construction of the highway following the adopted guidelines in recent years, other state roads are not neglected. On the contrary. In order to increase budget allocations in the area of reconstruction and maintenance of state roads by over eight billion tolars this year, which means more than 50% increase in relation to the previous year, it will also be possible to ensure faster renewal and modernisation of other state roads, which is as important as accelerating the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we also welcome this year's up-to-date preparation of the annual programme for the development and renewal of motorways for 2006. You will recall, dear colleagues and colleagues, that we have not witnessed such an update in recent years, but that similar documents were only adopted in mid-year, which prevented rational construction and successful implementation of the programme and also caused major problems for users of motorways due to reconstruction works that were usually carried out during the peak traffic density during the summer season. The 2006 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways foresees the continuation and completion of works on many sections that would not have been repeated since they had already been mentioned, so we have heard that from 173 kilometres of all sections contained in the annual programme, preparatory work will be carried out on a few more than 20 kilometres before the start of construction, at 47 kilometers and a half, the construction will continue at 82.8 kilometers and some over 22 kilometres will be those sections that will be implemented this year, as I estimate that we will be put on the market today. We have already heard, I think, that said Mr Minister, that this is a record programme, a record programme of over 170 billion tolars, so it will be our assessment that its implementation will require the maximum engagement of all those responsible. We're sure they'll make it. The area most critical of these annual plans in recent years has been the toll collection system. Despite the fact that representatives of virtually all parliamentary parties have pointed out an inadequate way of tolling, which on the one hand is linked to high costs and, on the other hand, is highly unfair, and has not moved much in the past for Slovenia as an extremely transit country. As far back as last year's programme saw a philosophy that all the missing toll stations needed to be upgraded as soon as possible - of course for the existing system - and thus to increase the influx from tolls. At the same time, last year's programme envisioned the implementation of a toll collection pilot project as the start of the gradual establishment of electronic free-flow toll collection, which we welcomed and welcome also in this year's programme. We believe that a different way of collecting tolls is essential for the implementation of the entire motorway programme, since the decisions we have taken in the framework of the 23rd and 24th agenda of this meeting also entail more successful tolling, which can only be ensured by changing existing inadequate systems. Well, this agenda that we have today is also based on this direction. As a result, the SDS expects that this area will be given an appropriate emphasis and that all necessary procedures will be carried out this year to allow appropriate decisions on the choice of the tolling system by allowing its launch from next year. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we estimate that the orientations of the 2006 annual development and re-establishment plan are good, but that special emphasis should be placed on the rational and economic use of available resources in this area, including through appropriate control mechanisms, and that the construction of new motorway sections should be accelerated. We will therefore support the agreement on the 2006 annual programme. Of course, we will closely monitor the implementation of this programme, particularly in the work that requires early strategic decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich has the floor, on behalf of the LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u164	Your Honor! I could say that anyone who thinks differently in this room than the will of the majority is exposing himself to the obvious that he has been doing bad things in the past, and this will quickly apply to LDS. However, I believe that there is no doubt that we are all for the construction of motorways and motorways that are still missing. However, this is a city and an opportunity to discuss the programme and to make a critical assessment in the light of the implementation of this programme so far, which would be considered and specifically highlighted in the future. So I wonder what we're actually doing today. Are we changing the resolution on the construction of motorways in Slovenia or are we adopting an annual programme to build and rebuild motorways in Slovenia for 2006? If we listen to the legislative and legal service, if we listen to the professional public, then we are working on a rebalancing of the resolution of the national programme. Surely there are many arguments for this. The first is the financing of this programme; the second is the definition of dynamics and, above all, sections in the priorities of this year; the third is, of course, all activities related to the implementation of the concession contract on the construction of motorways and the management of this network. And of course, we should talk about it and not with our fingers to show what was wrong and how things are going to get better and now it's starting to start all over again. I am sure that the way we deal with these things now and as we have in the past few years in the National Assembly, we have been dealing with these problems wrong. It is wrong because we have a series of acts that regulate things systematically, and we are actually implementing this programme in a completely different way. First time. We do not aim to build motorways under the law on the provision of a gas tolar or dedicated means for the construction of the roads of that money from the budget we are collecting in this way. Another time. Because we allocate to individual sections past the resolution in one year more, in the second year less, without confirmation, just as at that moment certain things dictate to the current head of Dars, the ministry or perhaps, as previously said, to any other godfather. And I'm sorry, but I have a feeling when I've been listening to the transport committee and when I've read the entire magnetogram again, that in fact all the Members are dealing with my anti-group fence, with my road past the house, with my connection, with my connecting road, with my circle, and so on. In this paper, i.e. in a magnetogram, in which the debater rarely went to the field of discussion to discuss whether the resolution of the national programme on the construction of roads in implementation in 2006 is as confirmed by the National Assembly in all segments, from providing resources, projects, dynamics and so on, as I mentioned earlier. Of course not. And since this trap always exists and this temptation is present, unless I say that something has to be done at my end, they will look at me ugly at home, if I say so, I will be badly looked at by other Members or by some of them from other backgrounds, because I will not mention them as a priority by chance. Undoubtedly, the construction of the highway is late. Late, on the other hand, I should have found that the system by which Slovenia built motorways is recognised in all studies as the multiplier effect in the economy that gives positive results. Or, of course, we are satisfied, both with traffic and safety considerations, with economic or any other in terms of dynamics, is another issue and, of course, we cannot be. So I don't want anyone later to tell me that when we talk about these issues, we're against building highways. I'm in favour of being built yesterday. 20 years from now, I really don't like the highways being built, they're supposed to be built, but yesterday, today, tomorrow at the latest. But if we go specifically to this annual programme; I do not think we are doing the 2006 annual programme, but we are actually setting up formal frameworks or confirming something in the National Assembly that operators will have confirmation that the National Assembly has approved the annual programme on the basis of a resolution, but they will do what they can in the course of the year to do certain things. I'm saying this because, say, a toll project, that's how we like to talk. The tolling project was approved in the National Assembly not last year - someone said here today - 2003 should have set it up, it did not stand. There was a call last year. There's still no contractor selected. We have a dilemma, we have microwaves, we have a satellite in Europe already in the air, we should probably make a decision and do something about it. After all, as I understand it, at least two manufacturers, two developers in Slovenia are working on it, they could already do it test. Maybe we could be the first ones in this area. I don't know why not. There's no decision to go into this. Because of me, we could upgrade the microwave system or the high frequency system or get it on satellite. But the problem is that there are no decisions. On the other hand, decisions, including against the decisions of the National Assembly, were made in 2003, by Dars, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Environment, in order to prevent them from collecting tolls on those sections where the most is tolling and it would be right for all of us on motorways to pay as much as possible. No, no, no. Here we have some explanations, no conclusions, even in last year's programme, even in the pre-annual programme did not come here and say; for these and these reasons we cannot set up these toll stations and there will be so much and so much money lost and we would find out whether these reasons are justified or not, and if we were excused, we would tell you not to build this. But no one can say on behalf of the National Assembly, we study it, if that makes sense, it makes no sense. That's not true. This is a legal act adopted by the National Assembly and we have lost huge millions of money on this account. More than that, when you look inside, you will see that certain money has already been spent on it. Project documentation, land purchases, end-of-work, nothing. Well, someone's gonna have to tell you what this is all about. Or let's move on. When we talk about tolls, of course it's not Darsa, not the Ministry, not the government, how much tolls will be collected. Because this year's act first lost its way - tolls as a source, as high as it is collected, are not. Dars 8 billion gets on the management account, pays a certain part of the concession to the state, but we don't know how much toll is actually collected and whether this concession is exactly defined by the amount or not. I don't think we can just accept things that way. Let things be transparent, clear, not that here, as was said on Tuesday, some money is being held back and spilled unjustifiably. When we talk about financing, regardless of the fact that we have talked about this for two days, it is fair to say: for the first time, this annual programme involves borrowing or preparing procedures for the issuance of securities for the rental of loans for the reprogramming of old loans. During this year, Dars already needs these bonds, or whatever it may be called, to extend his old obligations. And of course you can read it. And I do not understand anything else in this annual programme - that you have the envisaged issue of bonds and the hiring of loans also for sections that are already built. He said wrong, Mr. Kangler, who isn't here right now when he said, "Solznica," but it's Hazel-Kron's. But, say, Kronova-Bobje, two sections are built [[Commodity]] . Through the Trojans are built - read it there on that side and you will see that the issue of bonds for three sections, as stated there, is still part of Gorenjska. Why, how? It's impenetrable. Sections are on the market, but you'll be issuing bonds this year. I don't know, I can't say anything like this thing's impenetrable. I could mention it for a long time, but since I also have to take account of colleagues and colleagues in the parliamentary group who want to discuss it, I will only mention one more irrational, incomprehensible act by Dars and the ministries. At one section they create simply dangerous points. This is what it looks like on one part of the sections in Slovenia: the highway narrows down 10 kilometers, between the 8 km motorway will be open this year, between 5 km of ordinary road and then again the 35 km motorway to the border. There are dangerous situations at four ends. Besides, of course, the toll will not be able to be collected. Why was this end created inside? Last year, you were warned not to do this, they took 2 billion 250 from this 4.8km section and put it elsewhere - instead of finishing to connect it, they would collect the toll at 13 kilometers and make the traffic safer. But why did you do that is, of course, another question, even though you could discuss why. Construction of motorways is also designed, among other things, for dangerous, black points, as it is called, to be eliminated on roads without being created, and here unfortunately with such a way of building it is done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u165	Thank you very much. There is a general debate. Mr. Franz Horvat signed up.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u166	Thank you for your input, Mr Vice-President, Minister-designate with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. As a starting point of my debate, I am personally convinced of its regularity that the early construction of the highway network or, as we say in the jargon, the cross is more than necessary for the integration and rapid development of individual Slovenian regions and Slovenia in Europe. Therefore, I am pleased to note that the Dars 2006 annual plan is accelerating the implementation of the national programme for the construction of motorways and, of course, as an MEP from Pomur, I am particularly pleased that it is finally with accelerated construction, unfortunately with delay, as said by colleague Maria, when she recalled the first law we adopted in this Parliament in the early 1990s and also set national priorities, that the planned completion has also taken place or finally reached the turn of Pomurje. The highway programme goes without exaggerating for the programme of the century, starting in the previous century, it will end in the beginning of this century. When I say this, I must say that I have not negotiated anything with a very similar or the same thought expressed by my fellow Member, Horvath, just as Prekmurec, as I have. This makes us catch up late, not only in recent years, but in a longer period. Please remind me that former Slovenian politicians, Stana Kavčič, already 40 years ago, took the initiative to start and build the highway faster and therefore received special praise or reward in the then Yugoslavia. In fact, this brings us to five minutes after the twelfth development in Europe and the needs of Slovenia. Only through the construction of the highway will Slovenia take advantage of its favourable geostrategic position and avoid the risk of traffic isolation with the accelerated construction of parallel competitive roads, including motorways in other countries, especially neighbouring countries. With this, Slovenia has been responding at the last moment to major changes in Europe in recent years. I am referring to the opening of Central, Eastern and South-Eastern Europe and to the enlargement of the European Union towards the east and in the near future, we also hope for the south-east. The early construction of the motorway is one of the important conditions for more coherent regional development, a fine example, unfortunately with the sad development record of Pomurje. This region has been around for decades, even a century, without exaggeration, at the edge of various state works and decades at the Iron Curtain. With the enlargement of the European Union and the opening up of Central and Eastern Europe, it is across this area that the increasing traffic flow that has virtually overtaken us or found us unprepared is causing people with an unbuilt highway of great difficulty from endangering lives, deteriorating quality of life, material damage to environmental degradation, and unfortunately the increasing traffic flows do not bring possible and necessary positive economic consequences. The data on the continuous increase in freight traffic across the border crossing of Dugi Vas, including the latest data for the month of January, is record, and thus the ever-increasing continuous column, which is rolling through the settlements night and day, has been denied by not so long forecasts in this national assembly, or in the Slovenian public the professional and other sectors, that the situation in the south-east direction will be calmed down, and this has probably in the past also affected the delays in construction, so it is encouraging that in the 2006 plan intensive construction on the pomurski leg is finally relatively high, both in the kilometers of construction and in the means. We also rightly expect Pomurke and Pomurci to be transferred to the Hungarian border before the end of 2008. Let me remind you of that. Today, I had a Hungarian ambassador and he announced that the Hungarians would have a highway from Budapest to the Slovenian border this year. In view of the huge financial supply that is inevitable, if we do not want to be late, I expect the government to do its utmost to provide in the following budgets more funds for the construction of motorways and state roads, to obtain more funds from the European Union funds and to establish by the end of 2008 at the latest such a toll collection system that will provide sufficient funds for the repayment of credits and will be justified to all users of the motorway network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u168	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I think, of course, that the next day or a few days we are repeating ourselves in these discussions, of course I agree with many, but not with everything that has been said here. So I welcome this year or the 2006 annual plan. I also welcome the fact that he is, I would say, very ready in time. I believe that it is in accordance with the Resolution on the National Programme for the Construction of the Motorway Network in the Republic of Slovenia, but that it is accelerated, even after decisions, I would say, today's or yesterday's, which has been good for some time, of course. Above all, it is good that it is accelerating due to traffic, which my colleague has already mentioned before me, that the profession is likely to have little impact here in terms of traffic congestion assumptions, so acceleration, work in this area is of course absolutely necessary. In doing so, I would only like to correct one fact that occurs in this debate, as far as I know it, but I do not have it in my mind that the first phase of this final segment is expected to be completed by 2010 and then by 2013 the completion of all parts of the premurk. And as long as it is possible to physically and technologically complete this section by the end of 2008, of course it will be very good. I believe that it does not change, I have pointed out this earlier, it does not change the way the funding is financed, also because of today's and Tuesday's consent decision and the guarantee to rent a loan. Only the ratios in this funding change, as we have of course already said. In doing so, I would like to reiterate that I am convinced that, of course, the Ministry has made a correction of the national programme, from which, of course, it is also possible to prepare annual programmes, in particular this financial flow or the way in which individual annual programmes are financed. And that would probably be good for the future, so in the short term, this correction of the national programme would also be obtained from the government. More than once today, in today's debate, especially in the previous, item 1 of today's agenda, there has also been the thesis that the implementation so far has been harmful or that it has even been a wrong approach. I think that the approach has been similar, as it is now, that the approach has been accelerated since the year I am aware of, 2001 and 2002 onwards, that the intensity of construction, not only the use of resources, but also the subsequent physical construction, has increased in these years, but, of course, the greatest increase is seen in the plan for this year, and I am sure that in the coming years as well. Of course, many times today in this debate and on Tuesday there was talk about Augusts and so on. But if I'm a little mean, I haven't seen any horse stables here near Parliament where we park our horses or mules, I don't know what, probably not in the suburbs of Ljubljana. By not starting to count time this year, but the state of Slovenia has been working on realistically to improve this highway programme and the rest of the country's road programme as quickly as possible, but of course we simply cannot make up for this delay, which Slovenia has cashed in compared to the developed Western world, when some highways have already been built before World War II, and most of them, of course, at the beginning, since World War II, and that they are now just upgrading their systems in terms of traffic flows in terms of traffic loads. Here they are in a significantly better position than Slovenia, which started 40 years ago and a little over, then calmed down for a while. Let us all remember the so - called road affairs mentioned today, the affairs at the end of the 1960s, and we are in a situation as we are. So I welcome this year's programme, and I am sure that the profession will also execute it. Perhaps only one brief comment on my part, in order to make this additional programme under point B, could already be included in this annual plan in these initial stages of the approach, in order not to be necessary, what is stated in the explanatory statement that it is not necessary to wait for a visit to the government in Koroška, because it is already a basis for this to be in the national programme and it could be at least this northern part and some of the other sections listed in this point, I think that six, seven, which are also part of this programme, could have been from the beginning of this programme, but not that the government had to go to Koroška and promise it and then subsequently put it into the material that we are considering today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u169	Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, it is clear that there is no one in this hall who would oppose the construction of highways, and that this is essential that we do so as soon as possible, and that we are essentially reducing travel times, increasing safety and ensuring greater accuracy. However, we cannot go beyond some of the facts that speak precisely for the sake of providing, in fact, the roads we can do, and then the quality, the safety and, in fact, the rest, we cannot keep. So the flow is definitely decreasing at the time of increased traffic, and at the top of it all, we are actually getting more and more macho towards state roads, where every year we have more victims. For one class of kids, we die on the roads. However, it is unreasonable for the state to act when it is this Parliament that adopts stupid laws when allowing trucks increased basic pressure, reducing their penalties and not redirecting them to motorways. This adds to the burden on state roads, which are already so bad and we do not know how to establish legal regulations to protect essentially road users. And when we talk about how much money we give for highways, it is also necessary to say that we all have an obligation in Slovenia to raise money for motorways with so-called petrol tolls, 40 billion of these funds are collected in an integrated budget and we do not know on which items are spent, we do not know where this money is going. I would ask you, Mr Minister, to tell us today where these 40 billion have been used every year to know whether they have really been invested back in highways or state roads, either in construction or repair. And there's something else I'd like to point out. When we have all these highway connections, someone has mentioned the highway cross, we must be aware that we can destroy it quickly too, simply because we do not know by the system of Western European countries the difficult transit transport to the railways. I would like, Mr Minister, to have at a ministry such a minister, who would also be a railwayman in his past, a hybrid expert, as we can say that you are a good road expert and that you would also develop railway infrastructure faster than we are developing it. We're 20 years behind schedule, and we have a catastrophic situation. And I hope you'll do that kind of goodwill there, and we'll have a second-track law next week, and we'll see if we can get to the common denominator and get started right away, because there's funds waiting for us there, and we don't have to approve anything. And one more thing. In fact, we could say with certainty that if we do not accept that the law, which is appropriate, is protective, it will start causing great damage on Slovenian highways and also on state roads in the future. So, who will be responsible for this damage, Your Honor Minister, and that's what I'm interested in? And we are effectively jeopardising Slovenia by allowing, in fact, heavy transit traffic to fall mainly on state roads and not diverting it to motorways and to railways, especially on railways. And if we find out all of these facts, I would like to know more about how you will ensure the legitimate and transparent use of these huge resources, because we know that transparency has been discussed and we are talking less about legality, and there is a lot of illegality in the use of these funds. So that I would ask you if, even after you have given your opinion, you can ensure that there will be little less annexes to existing contracts, that these contracts will be a little less harmful, and that they will be more useful, essentially made up of good-bore systems, and that they will be really rational, and that this money will be spent really on what it is meant to be, because to this extent it is an enormous amount of money. And I would be very happy to have this assurance of yours. Of course, these answers are needed today, I would like you to tell us how you will maintain this national interest, because we know that highways will be quality and can be used very little time, because traffic is increasing; when we do this, we would need the same capacity as we do in order to be able to satisfy the accuracy of the traffic that awaits us in the future. We are just joining the trans-European corridors, both road and rail, and traffic is inevitably bigger every day. So how to protect by appropriate legislation, how to reduce mortality, how to ensure the legality of the use of these funds, which are before us today for confirmation. And not least, how will you increase maintenance on state roads as well? Look, the latest case from August 21st, Cankova, Puconci and Kuzmi caused a problem of 23 million damage in natural disasters. When Minister Podobnik spoke, he said who quickly did, twice then turned into a year even more. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Today it's a waste of 104 million tolars. In the government's response, we threw this money out the window.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u171	Time's up, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u172	We threw more than 75 million through the window! In this way too [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u173	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Don't you? [[You're giving up.]] Mr. Ivan Grill, SDS, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues! I also believe that this plan has been drawn up ambitiously and in my opinion also realistically, and as such Slovenia certainly needs it. If we had it before and realized it, this would be significantly better for Slovenia. In doing so, I would particularly like to touch the part of Slovenia from which I come, this is the southeast part, which we know for sure, given the demand or expectation of the industry, has been deprived and, even now, is extremely lacking in the motorway connection to Ljubljana. Just last year, we know that the government cut a long-standing Gordy knot past Trebnje and thus allowed all the necessary procedures to begin and lead to this, as we see in this plan, the process of obtaining the relevant documentation and also the time-consuming process of building. If this is what is expected to happen and will be linked to the central part of Slovenia by the end of 2008, this will certainly contribute significantly to the even better results of those companies that need such connections. I also welcome the understanding, both the Minister and his co-workers, that we have managed to ensure the proper connection of the motorway to the New City, because we know that the connection has not yet met the traffic needs and that the expectations and demands of the affected countries have been justified. That is why, on my behalf as well as on their behalf, I thank you for listening to this and that this is also covered and will be realized in this annual plan. Finally, there is also the guarantee and this law, which we have already discussed today, or I believe that we will also confirm it, one of the necessary starting points, that we will have to implement this ambitious and realistic plan, that we will also be able to finance all of this together and I believe that in the coming years we will also develop this programme and thus ensure the development of Slovenia in the entire area in an even and qualitative manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. Of course, I will support the decision on consent to the 2006 annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways. I support the intensity of construction this year, and I also expect the same intensity of the motorway to be built in the coming years. Of course, I would like to point out that in 2010, when these planned activities are to be completed or planned motorways are to be built, there will still be a need for transport to the highway in some areas between 40 and 50 kilometers, of course if we want to take the Slovenian highway to Croatia, let's say only 10 kilometers. In particular, I have in mind this Kozyan part of us, and I can also say, or I can see that, because in fact, it is nothing wrong with some rational construction of highways. Of course, we all expect that in these four years we will also arrange these state roads, so that access to the highway will be at least as powerful or as solid as possible, that our areas will also be somehow interesting to any investor. So that I don't need it in 2010, when I get home in my car and get to the highway, I'll stand at the rail crossing eight times, the worst-case scenario. Somehow, we expect these needed bonds to be built on these state roads as well. Of course, I would like to point out that the third development axis, or one of the variables, is also through the Cossian part, which is kind of up to date in recent times, but this is just one of the options. It doesn't solve this matter, as I've just stated. We certainly expect that much more will be done on state roads in the next period, especially in those areas where there will be no motorway. I believe that only then will we be able to talk about coherent regional development. As I mentioned earlier, we will support the conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u177	Mr Branko Marinič, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for the floor, Mr. Secretary-General, with the fellow Members, the distinguished presence. However, when we are talking about the 2006 annual road development and renewal plan, it is necessary to mention that the annual plan is based on the following documents, the Resolution on the National Road Construction Programme in the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of state roads, as set out in the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, the Decisions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia No 346, of 29.7.2004 concerning the accelerated construction of the Pomur motorway and the programme, the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006, 2007. Why am I mentioning this? Because some colleagues today have expressed some doubts that we are virtually unaware of what documents we are talking about when we consider the 2006 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways. Of course, we ask ourselves, too, whether we are Members, who, in one way or another, from different parts of Slovenia, have highlighted that part of the highway that will be needed in this particular mandate. However, I welcome the decision of the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has taken into account the decision taken by the former Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the accelerated construction of the Pomur motorway. You know, those who don't know these places, and those who may or may not have driven there occasionally or at all, have no idea what these people are experiencing from Maribor and all the way to Hungary, so through Lenart, through Gornja Radgono and through Prekmurska village, where because of the increased freight transit traffic, and also passenger transport, it increases tremendously, and the question is, do these people even live on this road? I am sure that this plan will also contribute to the fact that what has already been said to happen here, too, will be the end of a solid highway. In fact, it is also important to mention that in the 2006 plan it is important to acquire and accelerate the Zgornjesavska Valley motorway, because tourism transit traffic is increasing year after year and it is also right to speed up and complete the planned programme in this part of Slovenia. Much has been said about Dolenjska today. I mean, we drive a lot of people to these places. And it is high time that we also connect Ljubljana with the New Town with a solid and suitable highway and thus enable the development of industry in this extreme part of Slovenia. I would also like to mention the Phyrn highway or, more specifically, the section from Slivnica to Draženci and forward from Draženci to Gruškov or from Gruškov to the state border with the Republic of Slovenia. When one of his colleagues said today that the Hungarian ambassador had mentioned to him that Hungary would already be on the border between Hungary and Slovenia this year, of course we will not. I also met with a fellow member of the Croatian Parliament a few days ago, where he told me when you would arrive in Gruškov on the highway to the state border. On the Croatian side, it will also happen this year, and the question is whether this highway connection, Phyrn Highway from Drazenci to Gruškov, will happen after 2008, and whether it might really be necessary to think in this direction that we will finally have to define the date when this highway connection will really happen. Because with the construction of the section from Slivnica to Dražanci and the construction of the section from the border crossing of Gruškov to the state border with the Republic of Croatia, we have saved nothing, since then we have a section from Draženci to Gruškov, which will represent a large stopper and, of course, this built highway will not have the value it should have. I am confident that some progress will also be made with regard to the current complications of the public call for the production of project documentation in the section of Slivnica-Drazenci, but that there will also be progress and that things will accelerate in this part to really follow the programme, as we have written it down and as we believe it, at least as we will confirm it here today. I really want to accelerate the construction of this section, which I have already mentioned many times today, from Draženci to Gruškov, in order for the government to follow along with all the ministries of the field some accelerated development and events in order to really get to this necessary section as soon as possible. However, I am convinced that the 2006 annual plan for the development and renewal of the motorway is good and that, taking into account some warnings today, we will also accept it, and I believe that it is too much of a fear that, as we have written it down, we will not implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u179	Mr. Christian Janc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister with associates, colleagues, colleagues! The second day, Tuesday, today is Thursday, a really big debate on the highway programme in this Parliament and so is it. After all, it is the largest project in Slovenia in 2006, if we speak at 170 billion, it is certainly an exceptional number and it is certainly only an increase in the national programme that says clearly and decisively, and so I hear in the debate between Members that this is certainly a great support for this project, that Slovenia wants to complete this highway cross as soon as possible. This is an important starting point, irrespective of coalition or opposition, and this is one joint project that the previous government and the current one have further accelerated with the objective of completing as soon as possible. What this means for Slovenia, I don't think it's necessary to explain what it means for the economy, what it means for the flow and so on. In short, it is a major challenge of the ministry, Darsa and certainly Slovenian professions to performers. This will not be easy work, it will not be easy, because if we want to bring 170 billion to life in 2006, believe me, assuming that everything will not run smoothly and that there will also be problems, problems, for sure when we accept the report next year on this plan, I believe that it will be successfully brought to a close, that it will be realized and that Dars will also prove with his team that this plan has been fulfilled in anticipation of today's debate and Tuesday's debate in this National Assembly. I am sure that they have succeeded, but this number will certainly require a lot of coordination. It is a truly extensive and large, important project for Slovenia. I also believe that this great support for this important project for Slovenia, which has received so positive in these two days in the National Assembly, despite some of the concerns of some colleagues, the bullets and probably this support with this guarantee that financial resources are also provided, so there will be no reason for anything, there will be no doubt [[...]] In short, I wish him truly as a Member, who also comes from that part of Slovenia, where unfortunately this highway programme does not touch me, I regret to say that this is for those regions and municipalities which are touched by an exceptional opportunity for faster economic development, balance, greater accuracy and so on. And that's why I believe this unfortunate story goes through. The need, which has been in such strange things for a long time, has finally gained the approval of the route, which will certainly be a little more expensive, and I hope that the profession and all those involved will give serious thought to this transport link. I am talking about Mirski Dolina, because here comes a large part of the way to enter this highway, with this new fact of the new route being certainly a little difficult and I hope that the profession will also listen to users, listen to the regions that are in connection with this important connection in Trebnje, and that it will make sense that it will be acceptable for most of those users who will join this important highway when we finally get this connection to Dolenjska, with the New City, which we know is extremely economical, technologically advanced, but unfortunately has the worst links both against Zagreb and against Ljubljana, and it certainly makes them very difficult for their even faster and better development, which is otherwise as successful as Krk, Revoz and some other reputable companies. Of course, Mr. Secretary and others! I hope that this will also seriously and responsibly prepare a third development axis, an important project and I hope that, too, respected colleagues and colleagues, there will also be such support when this project comes to life in the real sense of the word in Slovenia, because this third development axis also brings together a number of regions, a number of municipalities and a part of our population, which is very important, because this part does not have the opportunity to be connected as close to the highway cross as this one and that is why this project, which, in recent times also the government and Members of Parliament, is likely to be very much said to the public at all, will also have the support that it will also produce all the necessary documentation, which will be difficult and will surely take several years, and that when this highway programme is completed, we will be able to quickly step on the third development axis, from Koroška, Celje, Posavje, Belej, Belej, Belej, Bele Krajin and will also be able to do so. I can see that some are already thinking, and so is the fourth development axis. It is right to look ahead and also this part is certainly appropriate and the case that this small Slovenia, which has still large black foxes, as regards road links and very poor infrastructure, is a regional one and has been in the past, I must tell you honestly, is seriously neglected and is still and I hope now, with some major budgetary amounts, that this regional network will also receive some more support, more in rebuilding and better secure flow, because so far it is in many parts of Slovenia in a catastrophic state. And if this is what the government is somehow, and the Prime Minister himself here in Parliament has made it clear that this will also be the next biggest challenge for these Slovenian governments, the third development axis, I hope that these words will also come in action, and that is what we want, not just me, but probably many who are waiting for this great Slovenian project. I am sure that we will also end up talking about what we have been talking about, both in Parliament, on the committee, etc., about tolling. This is a serious, burning problem for many, because this injustice hurts a lot of people, the user, and yet this project will run out in such a way that they will pay for what we use all citizens or all users, these roads, but not by favouring one, but the other we have to pay. I also know that it is the Ministry's task and that I hope that it will succeed, so I will be very pleased to support this annual programme, with the desire that the distinguished Minister and President Dars will also implement it in the programme that is entrusted to you, which is given to you, you have a green light both in the programme on my part, and there is no reason on the part of the guarantee for you to carry out this programme, however, as you set it in 2006. Good luck, good luck with this project, and I hope you're already working seriously on the third development axis in the meantime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u181	Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary-General with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. The motorway cross is certainly an all-Slovenian project that cannot and cannot end on the east-west route, north-south but must continue in all the developmental directions that have already been mentioned here in the past days. The third development axis, the fourth development axis, forms a consensus for the 3rd development axis, all of which is important. It's important because we have a large cross along the highway with state roads, but that's another story. I recall the events of the previous term of the National Assembly when the current Member of Parliament was Mr Jakob Presečnik, and when we spoke about this third development axis, and at that time we mentioned in particular the link or placement of the fast road into the programme on the route Austria - Koroška and the highway cross, it was, at the beginning, almost blasphemous, later it was included in the national programme and I also agree with my colleague Presecnik that the third development axis or project of the third development axis did not begin with a visit to the government in Koroška, not even in the Savinja Shaleška province, which was recorded in the national programme already in the previous mandate. It is true, however, that this is now being actively worked on, as has not been done so far on the third development axis, and in fact this is the most important. When we accepted the guarantee, I myself thought that the debt of Dars for a thousand and a few billion euros could jeopardize the project of the third development axis. Don't threaten to never carry out this project, it can move it a little bit. But I am sure that this will not be done by counting on the European Union's resources in this project, that there are three countries that are interested in implementing the third development axis. Austria, Slovenia, Croatia with at least six or seven regions, we can also name them development regions if we want them. This is also one of the conditions for us to obtain funds from the European Union and I think, or I am sure that the government is thinking in this direction. Tomorrow is the first spatial conference at the Ministry of Environment and Space, where we will face the third development axis for the first time. This is, of course, a matter that is also worth welcoming in Parliament. When we place this third development axis in the programmes, in the annual development and renewal plans - today we are talking mainly about this northern part of Koroška against the highway - I would like to point out that the mention of the fast road Dravograd-Arja is somewhat unfortunate. At this point, we should talk mainly about the link between Koroška and Dravograd, with the highway cross. Where the connection will be placed on this highway is a matter of further discussion, it is also a matter of spatial placement of this highway into space. Therefore, I suggest we use the highway cross instead of Arya. If it were very local, I would say that the third development axis should take place anywhere except that Velenje is on or around Velenje. It's not like that. We know the problems people face, economic operators. And all these warnings in the past, they seem to have fallen to fertile ground. That's why I'm sure we're on the right track. Otherwise, I say that the forecast that we will start building at the end of 2008 is very ambitious, but if we want to do something, we also need this ambition. And what is right is that the government is ambitious about this and that it is forecasting 2008 as the year that the construction of this fast road is expected to begin. Let me also take this opportunity to point out that it is necessary - and I have also developed this in a number of questions - to ensure security and accuracy on the existing motorway. And again, I mention the Arja village connection, where it is now becoming more and more frequent congestion, where connection to the state road has become dangerous, the connection is opaque. The reason is in the so-called diamond connection, as the profession says, and it should be thought out, and it should also be arranged in the way of a child - the flow is released, safety is increased and such connections on this part of the motorway would actually be needed. And when we were thinking years ago that maybe this road that runs from Arje to Velenje through Velenje, which is even more problematic, towards Koroška, could somehow be called a connecting road and could also arrange this road from these means, of course, it was a two-way sword at the same time. Because if we did, we'd probably be talking a little bit harder today about the third development axis, about the fast road, and it's probably the same thing. The modernisation of the state road is, of course, not within Dars' jurisdiction, and this is, as I have already said, another story, which will have to take place in parallel or at least start before we start building a third development axis or a fast road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u183	Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The new annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways for 2006 is undoubtedly an ambitious, comprehensive document and the activities envisaged therein, I do not think they deviate from the resolution of the national programme, to be upgraded to a certain extent, and I do not have any particular problems with this. I think it would be wrong for things to go down in this plan, as we can face such a case in another area where a National Housing Programme was adopted in the National Assembly years ago, which we know is more or less a dead letter on paper and things have not been going as well as they should. Here the situation is different, here we are talking about that the 2006 annual programme is significantly more ambitious than the documents adopted in the past and I think it is also. Of course, a problem can arise in the implementation itself, unless the approach to the implementation of what is contained in this document is serious and certain measures will be taken at government level, which will be the individual procedures that we have seen in such and similar projects. Then, at the end of the year, we will face the fact that, with all the good will and with all the energy that will be invested in making the plan come true, that we will find that, because of such or otherwise, we can call it bureaucratic obstacles, too, it has not been possible to do so. I think that this is a serious problem and that those who have drawn up this programme and accept it are aware of it, so I expect that in this matter they will work with all seriousness and these possible pitfalls will be removed, because the interest of all of us, as we hear today in the National Assembly, is that the plan, as I think today, is also being implemented unanimously. It is good that this program does not ignore other things that may not seem so important and are marginal to someone. I will mention one such case, this is the link between the Postojna via Pivka to Jelšan, which was transferred from 2005 from the 2005 programme, which was adopted at about the same point in 2006. Approximately the same content is, as defined in the 2005 programme, so I think it would be right that, even in such projects that do not appear to be the most necessary at first sight, the daily situation in this area convinces us that this project is also necessary and that, if it does not move from a dead point, someone still has a severe headache in a few years. Here we have one great opportunity, given that this link is linked to the Schengen border, to take advantage of the opportunities available from the EU funds for such cases and to prepare this project as soon as possible after 2007 and to bring it to realization as soon as possible. I think that all the options are given for this and, given the definitions in this programme, I would personally expect that in 2007 it will move into the plan at least under point 1.2 or under 1.3, so that it will not remain in point 1.1 again, as it is now. In other words, I think that these guidelines, which are well written, are appropriate to allow for some regional implementation of individual programmes and projects and that, as far as they are concerned, they will lead to faster development, both in Slovenia and beyond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u185	Mr. Milan Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u186	Thank you, Chairman. The Minister and his colleagues, the remaining Members and Members! Clearly, motorways are no longer the subject of arousing interest, which would increase interest in filling this hall, and this also shows what is happening today when, in fact, about one quarter of Members are present on this topic. This was also the case in the last two days. Whether the reason that some have already fulfilled their ambitions has therefore been realized, they have achieved what was achieved in that period backwards, but some seem to have lost the will to convince the coalition that something should be changed or perhaps even some critical around the national or annual agenda itself. So there is a document before us that really speaks about implementation, the realisation of all planning activities and the construction of motorways by 2006. However, it has a broader, heavier, more important role, at least on a number of pages, in a number of references and many parts of this document already speak with reference to when something begins, even when something will end. Thus, when it mentions these terms, it is actually touching in some way the resolution on the national programme. And here we have, or have those who believe that when we adopt the annual plan, it would be real to consider whether there is already a basis for a rebalancing, a resolution right. There are so many of these terms, which are already derogating or shortening, and some of them are also extending these terms, that it is necessary to see together whether it is as we say in the opposition and thus come with a clear document before us, and to find that we are wrong, therefore, that the resolution still holds, or we are possibly right, and the resolution is, after all, a comprehensive document which must not leave doubts. For this reason, my appeal that you consider trying to make these comments in such a way as to try to do so in the resolution, but if not, it is not necessary to convince us that this is not necessary. After all, only with regard to some of the deadlines you are referring to after 2008, after 2009, say Nova Zrkovska section, is the question of when it is after this year, or in accordance with the resolution, whether there will be any other deadline. But I was just illustrating what I think would be the basis for a resolution. So the fact is that at least I find that a number of routes are being implemented more quickly and that we should not be dissatisfied with this resolution. So I am joining those, and I have also said publicly that I believe that this annual programme is up to date, ready quickly. I don't know if he's ever been so fast in the past, so if there's an obvious, of course he can't hold it, so we're going to adopt the beginning of February, which actually gives a basis for all the actors to realize this year everything they wrote in the annual programme. However, there is some confusion and some doubts about this document. Earlier it was said why and there is no correct answer why bonds are therefore an integral part of the resources in this document for completed projects. And once again, I'm asking if we can get some answer, why, say, the Trojan highway - the Treasure that we know is finished, is still the subject of bonds. That's where we're talking. I think it's four billion. Kronov - Smědnik, so you know for yourself that on page 57 some of these are written, so these sources are written, some of these moves require an answer, why the bonds are only today and now when the objects are finished. Finally, the answer is that the financial structure has not expired and that we must therefore seek the resources to end this. It's a fairer answer than deceiving. Secondly, at least to me, the issue of toll stations associated with the electronic tolling system is open. You know, colleagues of Zalokareva are not here, who for some time has actually been asking what is being built with these five toll stations, which were envisaged, of which two of them are Krtina and Domžale are built, I think that, Lukovica, pardon, Lukovica built, but there is no Ivančna Gorica and there will be no Ivančna Gorica, there is no Vogroski, there is no Vodić and the Minister himself will not say, because we do not think it appropriate to do them because the time until the introduction of electronic tolling is too short to be rational and reasonable. At the same time, we are listening to Minister Bajuk, who says that with all measures we must increase the influx of tolls with new stations, with those who have been in the national programme, he speaks at the same time and doubts that it will be possible to introduce electronic tolls in 2008. This doubt has also been expressed during the meeting of the Transport Committee and I ask you nicely, I think that the government is obliged to coordinate all these different views, to sit down and to say clearly and loudly, we really believe that it is possible to do so in 2008, whether there are no such reasons and then with strong arguments to find out why three toll stations are not subject to the annual programme and why Parliament has not given this agreement, since Parliament has finally adopted a resolution on the national programme in which these 5 toll stations are written and this is an obvious discrepancy between the two ministers or both ministries or the government as a whole, that it does not make this clear and loud. Each of us, previously, was told what else I do not fully join in, that each one of his or her own kindergartens and each one of his or her own road, and each one of them has their own anti-group fences, and so on. I think that this has survived and that this is not particularly an expression in this mandate, not in general, I join in this thinking. However, I would just like to touch something that has been unjustifiably attributed to me in the debate on guarantees. Mr Jerovšek, in his famous way, was populism, spending his readings on the old government, on old events, not knowing what moves some Members were making, and so on. At the same time, he involved me - as if I was supposed to be the candidate for Mayor Maribor, which only he knows, because I don't know that yet - how I'm not trying, how I'm not fighting for Maribor's interests, how I don't care for full roads in Maribor, how I'm not worried about the bypass to Gruškov, Phyrn highway and so on. Mr Jerovšek, this suggests a lack of systematicity in your work, because in the work of the Member, if you talk about it, you should look at what it says on the Internet or what it says on the tapegrams, and you would look at the Transport Committee, and you would find that I have talked about all this much more plastic, much more reasoned, much more supported by numbers, with experience than you, who have just used your position as president of the SDS in Bistrica to harm the LDS candidate for mayor. That's your method. Instead of using a method of communication that would be an honor to you, you use a method of discrediting. Sometimes I feel like there's not enough intelligence to react quickly to what I said in the previous debate. I have therefore mentioned the same point in the previous debate on guarantee. Now you decide what's wrong with you. I have a clear conscience. The Mariborians should elect one who will pour them pure wine, not demagogia, which some politicians in this national assembly also sow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u187	Replica, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I am very grateful to my colleague Milan Petk, because those who have listened and watched will be the ones who will make sure that my criticism has failed. The current performance of Comrade Friday is quite different from what we used to say. Previously he advocated the practical abolition of some highway sections, through funding of course, now speaking positively. I see that it is also under the very great influence of some LDS members of the previous mandate who have declared themselves a smart party and have therefore been burned. He's here too to identify intelligence. I don't mind, but the results of the LDS in Maribor so far are not so brilliant that they could assert on a scale that the LDS in Maribor is doing everything right. As far as I know, some of the negative projects for Maribor actually go to a large part of the responsibility also on their account. [[Back-up advertising.]] Yeah, buddy Friday didn't even talk about the program. [[...]] At the same time, I have to say that actually -- because he asked me to speak more plastic, I speak plastic. [[Laugh]] plastic about what he was saying. I will not take the time, but it must be said that Maribor in the field of motorways and road program is still undernourished. For this reason, any such debate that has been held this morning, which pleads that the state does not implement the programme in order to stop funding, does not seem smart, but even from that end.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u189	Mr Jerovšek, then you applied for a debate. It was a replica, wasn't it? [[A laugh in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u190	Let me get this straight. I have some experience in these road programs, and here I have constantly fought hard in these discussions for sections, was also successful, in the case of Pragerski, although two years earlier the Maribor mayor delivered us a program because he thought he would do something in Maribor, but they did nothing then on all of this. So I don't keep my eyes open. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u191	Mr Jerovšek, the mayor of Maribor is not here. You speak in a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u192	I'll be done. So I really don't allow this kind of perception. Let's see who's fighting for something in front of the Maribor public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u193	Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll do my best and try to get as close to today's agenda as possible. I welcome such a plan to build highways in Slovenia, because it pays considerable attention also to those areas that have been excluded or forgotten so far - I mean, not forgotten, but why they are now taken into account. Of course, that was for two reasons. For the first time, because they were simply neglected by the previous government. Secondly, because this government has ambitions to actually follow this even development. Indeed, once again I welcome the fact that we are building these motorway sections across Slovenia. Today's debate is certainly somehow connected or the continuation of the debate on the agreement to rent a loan that will provide financial coverage for these projects, as well as the guarantee law, which we have discussed just now. Of course, by somehow providing financial resources, we have not come to the point that we already have roads built. Road construction is a complex, long-term process and must go through all these stages. Of course, it is necessary to place the motorway in a space, to acquire land, to prepare project and technical documentation, to give work, to find operators and also physically to perform these works. In order for all these stages to be successfully completed, much effort is needed. And there are more who are involved in this process. One of these is certainly local communities and residents living in this area; I wanted to say hurt, but it is not necessary that all are affected; some are enjoying highways, others are not like to go exactly where they are going. This sometimes leads to outright opposition. People are organized into various civil societies that want to change the course or otherwise influence the construction of motorways. Of course, we must not ignore them in this regard. They need to be taken into account. People are also right in certain cases, and it would be very wrong if such opposition led to the delay in the construction of motorways. I hope that the implementation of this programme will take place in this year and in the coming years, in such a way and with such dynamics, that the reasons for some complications in the local area will be as few as possible. Another important aspect to be taken into account is the Public Procurement Act, which in some ways lays down certain rules and may also constitute a major obstacle. The way it is, of course, can be abused. And with such or other abuse, there may also be unnecessary delays in, say, broadcasting work or other procedures. I hope that such or other abuses of this Public Procurement Act will not occur and that the competent ones will do everything they can to ensure that the procedures in this plan are actually in the expected dynamics. If it is possible to look at it locally, if it is no longer in fashion, but it is no longer in place to talk in this House about what I have just heard, of course I am very interested in the fact that the Ferencian leg of the highway from Slivnica to Drazenci and towards Gruškov builds up as soon as possible. The deadline set here for the section from Slivnica to Dražanci, until the end of 2009, as far as I am concerned, is very critical. Given that I know the situation in this area, I am afraid that the existing road network will simply put pressure on many trucks and passenger cars will not hold up and that this would lead to major problems as regards congestion, which would of course affect not only the traffic regime in Slovenia but also in neighbouring countries. I therefore appeal in some way that if only it were possible for these hands to actually be reduced, if it is relatively close to 2009 or very far away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u195	Mr Mitja Slavinec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying a nice hello to all present. I also join the view that the programme should be fully implemented, both in this year and in the years envisaged by the programme or where it predicts construction in the future. By 2008, we see the end of the pomurski car leg, about which much has already been said. There are certain concerns about the various complaints and the above-mentioned abuses of the Public Procurement Act, and this is also the concern of everyone waiting for the motorways. That is why, of course, both the minister and the whole government are at heart to make use of the fact that they have scissors and canvas in their hands and to achieve the relevant laws, regulations and implementation of this programme by actually implementing it within the deadline, within a certain period of time, in view of a truly catastrophic situation where not only the safety of people along this road, where their health is not only threatened by increased noise, excessive vibrations and excessive emissions of toxic gases, but also by the destruction of state roads. In the morning, when I drove from Murska Sobota to Ljubljana, I spent as much time to Maribor as then from Maribor to Ljubljana. And the road now that winter has shown its teeth, it's becoming increasingly full of shock pits, and it's only dangerous to me, but it's also causing damage. This is all because I am putting the Minister and the Government to the fullest advantage of what they are likely to get in the vote tonight, and the possibility of these loans, if they are so favourable now, to pump and hurry with the construction of roads. So the deadline for completion will not be December 2008 but somewhere in the middle of the year. We can certainly count on this silence because 2008 is the pre-election year. Let this not be the only motive, but all the above-mentioned arguments are much more in support. Of course, we are looking forward to the end of this year and the opening of the next foot car in Pomurje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u197	Mr. Magg has the word. It's bad luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u198	Please. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, President Darsa, colleagues and colleagues! In this comment on the annual plan for the construction and maintenance of motorways, I will focus on the new electronic toll system, control systems and traffic management, as well as on the item of connecting roads. First of all, I would like to say that it bothers me that this plan does not show the preliminary plan and the implementation of the preliminary plan for 2005 at least. So it's kind of hard to compare things. At least I didn't notice these things, but they could be somewhere. With regard to the new electronic tolling system, where the references are repeated from last year and the amounts are falling, I might like to contribute something to support that, in fact, what is written down is also possible to realize. What is currently happening in the preparations that are written here, which do not take place as a person would like to, I am virtually convinced that the indication in the annual plan that we will have free-flow tolling at the end of 2008 cannot be realized. Of course, it cannot be realized mainly because it will not depend solely on Slovenia. If you want to achieve mass automatic tolling, it also depends on the environment, especially Europe. Europe, as well as other countries, will have to implement certain things in order to make this possible. However, I think that with appropriate engagement, Slovenia would, in fact, be a non-important country within the territory, but after transit traffic in this relatively insignificant geographically large territory, a country that is extremely important could be a model for Europe or could show Europe how to apply some good practice. I mean, and I have been doing this for almost a bad year now, the introduction of electronic tolling based on modern technologies, especially those technologies that will prevail in Europe because of their functionality, the ease of implementation and also the fact that Europe uses applications based on its Galileo project. That is why I propose to the Minister, who is therefore aware that in these real situations, whenever possible, we expect Europe to adopt appropriate rules on technical, systemic and operational conditions this year, which are more or less already developed and known for Slovenia to start gradually implementing, with appropriate engagement and determination, such a system which, according to my assessment and the assessment of some experts, would be possible to implement for all heavy vehicles by 2008 and then by 2010 when systems in the free movement of all other vehicles are introduced in Europe. I therefore propose to the Ministry that it adopt appropriate strategic guidance in this regard. Unfortunately, it is not possible to extract these from what is written or from what is known. Therefore, I think that Slovenia, given its knowledge, already has laboratory systems that operate, even has competition in this area within the country itself, can combine all its potentials and approaches decisively to the implementation of such a system. If I look only at item 2 billion 338 million for traffic control and management systems, if you introduce satellite monitoring of all vehicles, you can, in addition to simple tolling, traffic control of infrastructure and public security, traffic and security information, replace these two billion for what you intend to do here - link two motorway sections into a related traffic control and monitoring system in a classic way with process technology. When you have data collected on the movement of vehicles, it is very easy with the same software to analyse, guide and manage traffic. Let's say we remove the spikes, redirect and so on. I wouldn't add anything here. The indication and guidance of microwave technologies, and the fact that it is a new frequency that has been standardised in Europe for almost ten years, and this is referred to as pilot testing or experimental project, is absolutely unnecessary. I was just reading a 1996 English study today when these technologies were tested, microwave technology at 5.8% giga hertz. Today, in fact, all European systems operate on this frequency of this type of technology, except in Slovenia, where 10 years ago, by the way, when some of us pointed out this, it did not at that time approach this already standardised and established frequency on this microwave technology. The neighbouring countries are to be excused because Italy and Austria are not yet their approach but Europe has been and is still, because of these circumstances, the same base and continue to build and build. Austrians, for example, the toll system in the free traffic flow for heavy vehicles, for trucks on microwave technology, which has a whole set of restrictions mainly on functionality. The expert opinion in Europe is that this is not the technology of the future. The decision of Europe, I think it is practical, is definitively designed and is going to appropriate satellite tolling. Satellite tolling also enables, of course, the taxiing of all other vehicles which do not drive on motorways and can also be taxed and imposed on them in some way due to damage and benefits and environmental impacts. With regard to the development of connecting roads under the motorway programme, I am disappointed because what was already mentioned in this plan last year is somehow reduced. At this point, I must draw attention to the expectations, arrangements and promises that preparations will be completed this year for the construction of the Mengeš railway, which is the first stage of the construction of the connecting road between the Styrian and Gorenje motorway. This is Krtina connection and Vodice connection to introduce my local pot or regional pot. It's the northern Ljubljana something or the place you want it to be. In this part there is a strong transit traffic north, it is said from this someone to Ljubljana and back. The daily and very strong transit traffic of all those looking for a shortcut here. This is, however, a traditional link between the Styria region and Gornji region. Mengeš, however, is the only place in this area that does not have the right road, and is, as such, the standard crossing point for these traffic flows, and of course for decades has been the narrow throat of the connection of this northern entity of Ljubljana and transit transport. Mengeš was specifically mentioned in 2005 and is now gone. In fact, I wonder whether the intention of what has been agreed has been promised and in some ways implemented, the intention is to do so. To conclude, in fact, in the general assessment, I am pleased that the government has approached a really decisive way of financing as well as building highways themselves. This is the right approach, and I hope that this highway programme will be built substantially faster than planned, rather than facing the situation in 2013 than in 2004, when the national highway construction programme had to be extended instead of being completed by 2013. And I wish you, both the Ministry and Darsu, a successful realization, a quality performance and as few problems as possible in bureaucratic procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u199	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The debate on the annual road development and renewal plan is lively and deepened every year in Parliament. And that's right. In this afternoon's debate, I stress once again that I am pleased that we are speaking again in the same language, which I have not experienced in the morning when we were talking about financing the construction of motorways. This morning, it seemed as if some people thought it was necessary to build highways at an accelerated rate, but funding would be like in Greek dramas, "ex machima", a miraculous solution. And those who stressed that the programme should be stopped with a half-programme of funding were wrong. Now there's a sobering moment. I noticed that some had to realize this morning that they would have to act like chameleons to change colors from morning to afternoon. But well, now they just had to show that we're not really opponents. Here I expected actually a slightly more skilful opposition attitude to behave in a different way. Now let's go to this plan. Look, some of these sections, it seemed years ago that we would be completely satisfied with built highways by now. The program was delayed and serious observers were also aware. However, if we built a little bit slower, the reasons are also within the construction system, it is said, including Darsa, DDC and everything that belongs in this lobby, construction, design. I claim, once again, that some projects have gone too expensive, including some things too luxurious, because of the interests of the construction and design lobby. And now it's time to alert both the ministry and Dars to be vigilant about what designers are offering them, what the building lobby requires. From their point of view, this is understandable. The construction lobby is interested that the construction site is as long as possible in one place, that the project is as expensive as possible, this is interesting for them. But it's different for the country. The country and we, the citizens we're paying, we're on the other side. And there are examples - and I'm not embarrassed to mention the Croatian case where they're more operational, I'm sorry. And now there's a new minister and a new one - you haven't done anything wrong yet, and now it's your chance to be vigilant. See, after so many years of highway construction, the cost of production, not of land production, but of documentation, design, logistics and all of this must be reduced to a unit of kilometers of road. There's got to be some kind of quantitative discount. There is so much experience that it cannot be, and I don't want it to be in the future when some highway will be built in the very body of the highway, that some buildings will "shoot" in the body of the highway, as it happened years ago here in Ljubljana. And I know that there were interests in the back that some of the owners had endured for so long, that some of them had connections in the road lobby, and also that they had actually blocked the country and everything. And when I say that not all sections were optimally built, I say that I am happy to be able to drive across the Trojans or on the freeway or now on an old road that is no longer, but is empty. But crossing the Trojans is an example of a building lobby, a design lobby, winning here. Now we have a limit of 100 kilometers from Vransko to Blagovica. She was in front of a tunnel this morning, 60 kilometers. I don't know what the reason is. I don't know what the reason is 60 kilometers away. And when I warned the then director, Mr Brodnik, and also here, they showed me that there was no other way that this was the most optimal route. Now it turns out that this route, because the fact that we're driving so much on 70 meters and so much over miles, is not optimal, but it was optimal for the builders. They stayed there for years and years and spent a lot of money. I'm sure if even a trifle were to deviate from the standards of the Bavarians, we'd have a highway to the Pink by now. On politicians, on performers, on contract makers, is to ensure that there will be no additional annexes, because this has deteriorated in this Slovenia and also in the road lobby. Tenders must be so precisely prepared, based on the experience that roadbuilding now has, there is no cause and justification for additional annexation. The worse sections are over, so don't talk, nobody can say, but we're surprised, we didn't realize that, geologic composition, I don't know what else. No, there won't be any more apologies. That is why I hope that this project will actually run very intensively now. Some parts of Slovenia are still closed and must be done. I welcome this program. Although I would be more pleased if Slovenia were to build longer sections and fewer construction sites. But we decided on a program like this years ago, and everyone has to get something. But it's not the cheapest solution. I hope that it will be realized in such a form and that we will finally stop talking about this once that this cross and these developmental axes with the roads will be realized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u201	Mr. Mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Members! I don't think there's been any opposition this morning, given what we're saying this afternoon. Therefore, allow me to comment on the 2006 annual development plan and the restoration of motorways, as prepared by the Government and as published in the rapporteur's January number. Undoubtedly, firstly, the real source or basis of the annual plan is the resolution, the law on the Society for Motorways and the law on the provision of dedicated funds. What is not true, of course, and what is not appropriate, is that the law on the provision of earmarked funds for the construction of state roads is not being fulfilled. Next. It is important that this annual plan is based on the conclusions of the Government of July 2004 on the accelerated construction of the Pomeranian motorway, since this was the right response to more than 80% of the increase in traffic after 1 May 2004 in this part. However, there is a lack of an adequate response by the Government of Janša to provide, in particular, the right budget of the Republic for 2006 and 2007, a budget that was in line with the above-mentioned law on the provision of earmarked funds and adequate resources in the 2006 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways. Why am I saying that? I say this because ordinary mathematics shows that according to the resolution on the national programme, 22.7% or one fifth of more motorways built are envisaged in the annual plan. However, it is estimated that 85% less from the investment transfers of the state budget, only 15% or, if you like, a bad seven-year budget is allocated from the State budget for the 2006 Annual Development Plan and the restoration of motorways. And because of what we had this morning, Mr Jerovšek, we need seven times more from the loans we have been hired to make this annual plan for the development and renewal of highways for 2006. Undoubtedly, however, what one of my predecessors said, especially Mr Šteba, is that this morning we have warned that two key thresholds would not only be built in 2006 but that the resources from which roads will also be built could also be returned. Two conditions are not met. There was one thing Mr. Stabe was talking about. And I completely agree with him. An electronic tolling project with all the notes, comments that the laymen are obviously talking about more than experts. And the laymen on this topic today were quite a few things, from the Minister of Finance to probably some Members. Everyone just knows that in 2008 we will not be able to launch free electronic tolling in the world. I'm going to talk about this as an economist myself and say what people in the House can see every day. By introducing some previously unforeseeable toll stations, people simply return to state roads. And I don't want us to get into the situation when we introduce electronic tolls, tolls on the freeway, that we built highways for transit traffic, and that Slovenians and Slovenes are going to be too expensive, and they're not going to be driving highways. Therefore, in this dilemma, I think there will be a lot of discussion about how to burden Slovenians or Slovenes on a towed kilometer on the highway and whether and how to invest in state roads. So let's just say, what we implicitly confirmed this morning when Dars is in charge of $247 billion, that in 2080 we're going to raise the toll by 40%, it just can't be realized because people have a choice. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] It's 40%. [[...]] [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] 2008, yeah. [[...]] What's gonna happen? It will probably happen that by 2060, 2070 we will be returning this money. In view of the resolution, the annual programme for the development and renewal of motorways is significantly different, and it would therefore be correct that, in the introductory forecast on the basis of this annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways, we would first have an appropriate amendment to the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways, rather than simply reducing funds from the state budget for motorways beyond the legislative framework, in the absence of a law on the provision of funds. It would also be good if the annual development and renewal plan of the highway, which is based on - probably here is a mistake - on the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006, 21 January, when you sent this to the National Assembly, was already adopted, and it could be said that this is a 2006 budget, but these are typographical errors that happen when you rush the government documents into the National Assembly - it is not enough that you only mention the budget as a source. It would also be necessary to specify cohesion funds primarily because I am assessing that we will be one important part of what we will simply not or will not be able to do in full this year, possibly and necessarily from European funding. I look forward to the 2007 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Highways, because we will be able to test whether the Government of the Republic of Slovenia succeeds in talking with the European Union to obtain the funds that are available within the framework of the European Union. Let me tell you this: for the period 2004 to 2006, € 160 million has been earmarked for projects such as motorways. Of this, 1/4 of the funds are earmarked for the 2004-2006 motorway programme. In 2007 to 2013, these funds amount to 900 billion. And if this government had decided to also spend less than 1/4 or less than 250 billion of these funds on motorways, it would not be necessary to give Dars such a high debt today. Finally, allow me to comment on one of the entries in the highway program. This is the item related to the preparation of documentation for the new motorway programme included in the supplementary programme of the resolution for so-called section 2B-1 Dravograd-Arja vas. Here, however, I would expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take more into account, as it has been in practice, what the territory says. Members and Members, some of them in this Chamber, Mr Koren, colleague Lahovnik, Mr Kontič, Mr Petek, together with representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, in the Economic Chamber of the Savini-Shale region and representatives of the region of Koro region, decided that the only acceptable section of the new motorway section to connect Austria or Holmec, on the Slovenian-Austrian border, with the Ljubljana-Maribor motorway, is the so-called Western option for this motorway to join the Ljubljana-Maribor motorway near Šentrupert. There's a lot of reasons for that. The key reason is that only this makes it possible to have full access to the Shaleska Valley, along with the Upper Savinjska Valley. I hope that you will simply take into account the link between the so-called Austrian border at Holmec and the link that should be the most optimal link to the existing highway in place of the Dravograd-Arj motorway. The special document, which would be transmitted to the proposed Conference of the Minister of Environment and Space, proposes to take into account the Western version, the variant which, through Holmec via Slovenia Gradac, then west of Thinking, west of Šostanja and with connection to the Šentrupert motorway, connects most quickly with central Slovenia. After this so-called Western version, the Korošci, the Shaleska Valley and, of course, the people of the Upper Savinjska Valley would get to the center of Slovenia as quickly as possible. From the highway connection at Šentrupert then it is necessary to decide which is the most appropriate, the lower variant, whether it is then the link of the existing highway Šentrupert-Cele and then from Celje down past Laško and further towards Dolenjska. That is what I think it would be right to take into account when you do these things in practice. I hope that we take into account the opinion of those who live in a particular area, because the so-called Eastern version that connects the motorway or Holmec to Cel, at the end of the Lopata, does not meet the needs of the Upper Savin Valley and the Shale Valley in particular. I therefore hope that the government itself and the competent ministries will continue to take account of this. Today, by adopting this document - an annual road development and renewal plan for 2006 we are actually concluding almost half a year's discussion, a discussion that began with the 2005 budget rebalancing and then with the adoption of the 2006 and 2007 budget. With the adoption of a budget in which Mr Janša simply wanted to spend more money on military and defence, less money on motorways, and therefore, of course, in this annual plan, development and renewal of the highway, we have a record large increase in the amount of funds for leased loans. As much as 679% is the higher volume of credit available in the annual plan, according to the funds provided for in the resolution, I wonder, of course, whether the annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways for 2006 has even the right legislative basis. Whether it is even possible to change the annual plan so important without first supplementing the resolution, without deciding whether we will still have the means to build state roads, or whether we will simply reduce the price of petrol, because obviously the money we spend in petrol and oil is spent on building highways, it is not about that, but from this money, as we have already said several times, we are spending more money on repressive authorities. I wish Mr Bozic, Mr Bajuk, Mr Dars to be more successful in the next annual plan, the 2007 plan, both in the budgetary discussion and in the discussions with European technocrats in particular, and to have more of the annual programme for 2007, 2008 and the following years than the sources of the cohesion funds written down and, of course, also the indirect budget of the European Union and the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Otherwise, Dars will soon be in a situation where we will have to activate the guarantees here in this National Assembly and we will be working on a highway rehabilitation programme instead of building a plan or preparing and adopting a plan for the development and renewal of motorways. The potential rehabilitation of Darsa's financial opposition begins today when, no doubt, as you did on Tuesday, with a coalition majority and with your responsibility, you confirm Dars' huge debt to build highways normally in 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u203	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, President. One of the conditions for the adoption of the annual development plan and the restoration of motorways is the simultaneous adoption of the consent and guarantee law for the rental of the necessary credits if, of course, such a large volume of motorways, fast roads and connecting roads and maintenance is to be realized this year. There are quite a few debates behind us where we can see that the condition for consent and guarantees are practically met and that we are adopting a plan today. Perhaps in this 2006 plan, however, it would be necessary to devote more space to the problems of putting routes into space, in particular because of the sense that the procedure for obtaining consent to put the route into space is necessary, especially when it comes to the nature-protection guidelines, which are often written in the initial phase by the general and, in fact, the designer and those who are working on the site plan, do not know exactly what it is and only later in the stage where additional requirements for the nature-protection guidelines arise. I think this is one of the areas that is becoming more and more up-to-date in Slovenia because we have around 35% of the areas included in Natura 2000. This year, 2006, it will probably be the last year in which we probably talk as freely as we can and negotiate with each other how we will put these routes into space. Following the ratification of Nature in Brussels, Brussels will be decided by the Brussels Commission, because we have transferred this competence to this European Union institution, of which we are members, of course, also Slovenians. It would be appropriate to speed up all those procedures relating to the placement of routes in the Natura 2000 areas, because I fear that then in 2007, 2008 and 2009, which are very close and also hand-cuffed in the resolution on the construction of motorways, they will be unattainable. This, of course, raises a very big question as to whether we have actually adopted everything we have already adopted in Parliament for 2006, in order to make it possible to do so. Perhaps with this issue, whether we need a rebalance in the resolution of the national programme already in 2006, because resources are substantially changing in the financing of this programme, we would probably be able to compensate for those provisions which, at least to the extent that I recall, were originally recorded in the proposal for a resolution on the construction of motorways, in addition to the annual programmes, medium-term programmes are also being adopted. Of course, this is one medium-term programme, which has slightly more limitations, slightly less space than we are going to the rebalancing of the entire resolution. I believe that the proposaler also had in mind that if he opens the resolution alone, there will be many more difficulties and many new sections that could make the process of adopting this year's annual programme significantly more difficult. This may not have been such a mistake in thinking about the medium-term programme, but in the final version of the adoption of the resolution this has been omitted and today the resolution of this work is not included in its content. Thus, in this additional position on the annual programme, I would really like to point out that they are trying to place routes in the space to the greatest extent possible and that we will then allow for further construction. The nature guidelines, particularly in Natura 2000, make it very clear that either we need to take alternative measures if we are to reduce this space, but of course it is very difficult to implement these alternative measures or provide additional areas, because these are still areas on which a number of restrictions need to be reintroduced. If it is going through a normal procedure, through coordination with local communities, it is impossible to achieve such a simplified process as was the case with the adoption of Nature when, in fact, the local community did not ask whether it was and to what extent it could indeed be included in their area or not. However, I think we could also say that the highway programme and this year's programme are not only the biggest programme that has been running for several years or a good decade in Slovenia. Certainly it could also be defined as one of the largest archaeological projects, as many archaeological findings were actually discovered mainly for the construction of motorways and if this road were not built, many findings would remain hidden in the muds of Slovenian land. This is how we can talk today about these archaeological finds being a new cultural heritage, which we know exactly what it was like in that place. Such an approach and such an understanding of the highway programme as one of the major archaeological projects would probably also change a wide range of thinking in those who write the nature-protection guidelines and at the final stage issue consensus. So much is possible only for further reflection in the 2006 programme. Of course, I also wish that this programme would be as successful as possible and that there would still be more understanding of the fact that there are also earmarked resources and that we are not putting aside all those additional highway programmes or sections of fast roads for which there are no defined resources in the resolution, but these resources would, of course, be possible if the task of the basic programme itself is not too high. However, if this debt will draw on these funds, a new question will be raised, what with all those new sections that are urgently needed to maintain regional development at the highest possible level in Slovenia and there will be no difference between those places that are at the highway crossing and those that do not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u205	Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u206	When, in fact, all day and even in the past days, I am listening to how some places have been neglected, how some areas have been pushed aside, it is very clear that this basic programme included first the construction of motorways. With every change in all these years, something else has been added. And it is clear that some area was not neglected because the previous government or parliament did not like it, but because it was simply not possible to do everything at once and probably some priorities were chosen. And even with recent changes in the national programme's balance and the adoption of a resolution on this basis, a whole series of things, sections, bonds and so on have actually come into the programme. I say they're absolutely necessary. It's absolutely right that these things are being built. But when we talk about building a highway program, it was meant to make a so-called cross with a road that would be a toll road, on this basis, so on the basis of the toll collected, based on the management of this highway, will also provide resources for other programs. It is also true that some things have been done in parallel. That many of the railways were working, that they were working on remote roads, that there was a lot of water program. Mr. Weber was just talking about how we dug up richly in archaeology. If we went to look at the number in all these years, we'd see it's impressive how much it was meant for this area. True, but of course all of this means that the dynamics were what they were. Since it is also necessary to specifically define certain things, I have discussed tolling in the free course, my point was only that, because it was a lesson not to get acquainted with this and that we should be silent. A decision is needed, Mr Squeakl has spoken about it, and it is necessary to make a decision to do so. We've been talking about this for years. I think we already know so much about all these systems that we can start with something. I hear there's some calls, some things and so on. I also believe what has been said here today that in some things we can be first, better and so on and that we will be. I wonder if you'll go when and when we can expect it. Is that money that was apparently left behind from the past three years because the toll station was not built? Last year, for example, a billion 980 million were foreseen under this title to build toll stations last year. Will this money now be designed to develop this system? Second. I would like to know what scenario, given the analysis of the professional basis that you ordered in order to find out how we will provide resources for construction in the coming years, what scenario you are starting in these four now, or where we are actually going to continue in 2006, 2007, 2008, and so on, because you are predicting for a longer period here. I am also interested in whether you will also try to take into account any environmental constraints and, above all, to walk in pure nature, to say so, with highways, in the middle of Crassus, in the middle of forests and so on. Are you going to try to evaluate some sections at least so that, as I've heard here today, they won't be up to ten billion more expensive on, say, a 10-mile highway that is supposed to be designed and predicted. I think these are the issues that we need to talk about in our annual programmes. If possible, and I assume that the data are accurate, given the comparative studies, that up to ten billion or more billion a section is more expensive if one option or the other goes. Here, of course, many things were found layly where it would be better to go motorways etc. But, however, can the public be sure that we have indeed chosen the most optimal, rational route that can also be quickly implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u207	Thank you. He wants a word from the government. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Thank you very much, honourable Members and Members for the open dilemmas and debate! Throughout the debate today, many things have been said, dilemmas, questions and, last but not least, your reflection on the implementation of the national highway construction programme. At the very least, I would like to say that with this year's annual development and reconstruction plan, the scope of the programme is around 90%. Once we have completed this year's programme, we will finish about 516 kilometres of highways since 572 to realize it after financial realization slightly less, so we will spend a few less resources than was envisaged in the national programme. It is true that this is a basic national programme that is in all the corrections and additions when the national programme has passed into a resolution which I can say is a key document that in some way gives the framework and the conditions for the implementation of the annual plans. That the annual plans are actually operational acts, which in some ways must and also follow the implementation of national programme resolutions. I can only point out that the implementation of the annual plans over the last three, four years is 100% or even beyond the planned realization, both physically and in terms of the scale of the financial planned implementation. That's good. This means that Dars, together with the Ministry of Transport, is objectively and correctly planning the implementation of the programme. I could assess that, as such, the programme is, in some ways, the very dynamic within those planned frameworks, as recorded by the dynamics in the national programme, that we cannot talk about derogations, but not in the least, that we are building somewhere forcefully, but that we are somehow forgetting the construction of certain sections. I would add that once the programme is completed this year, there are still some important things that will need to be completed from the basic programme. It is a fast coastal road that will still lack the last part of the road to Lucija, and it will also then connect to Luke Koper in full and will need to build a whole more than 60 to 70 kilometers of road network, including the section of the fast road between Slovenia Bistrica and Ormož in full. I would add that the assessment resulting from this year's annual development plan, as you can see in the tables which form an integral part of this document, that the expected increase in investment values is around 3.7%, but would also add that this is the majority, you can understand from the table itself, that the changes in routes take place on highways or fast roads or roads, does not mean that construction is just as was said today in the debate by some Members, is more expensive and increases from annex to annex. This is not true because the issue is manageable and manageable if we somehow find that 90% of the programme is completed with this annual plan. I would also like to say that on some of the vital largest capital projects, including the Black Kal, including the Trojans, the investment values of the realisation itself, the very extent of the realisation on the project, were significantly lower than that foreseen by the investment programme. This is a multibillion-dollar issue, and I can't just say the average and the beginning of the projects being irritated without restrictions. In short, in this year's development and reconstruction plan, the item is therefore larger in the Trojans or is listed as a source of bond financing mainly for a simple reason, because we have somehow filled in or reimbursed funds that have been spent on dedicated resources in the past year and we have in fact closed down the financial structure. And once again, I stress that this is not about increasing value over the Trojans, but more or less about 6 billion below the value of the investment programme, which is, of course, exhilarating. I'd like to touch on the toll system. This issue has been a question in the National Assembly for years, if you remember, honourable Members, in 1995, when the so-called closed toll system in some way changed into a semi-print or mixed toll system and then, I can say, a major professional error was made and these works were still a problem. When we introduce the so-called open system, and the result of all of this is that studies that have been followed since 1998 have shown that as many connections as possible should be closed, which are the ones that generate the most traffic. Among these were these five toll stations - of which two were built, three were not, because the time to switch to electronic tolling in free traffic is too close and the cost would be too high depending on the contribution to this investment and on the purchase from the tolls collected at these three toll stations. The annual development and reconstruction plan is not in some way a "Russian five-year-old" would say to this document, but it is actually a living organism that reflects the construction with all the possible deviations and possibilities that are somehow given by the preparation of project documentation, adopted by the location plans and also by the connection in the construction dynamics themselves, and also by the connection in the placing of individual sections on the market. It is true that some sections are not yet concluded among themselves, but it is only a matter of time - when Mr Anderlič spoke about this issue, he was probably referring to part of Dolenjska, where this alliance is not guaranteed. I must say that we are counting on this motorway section to be completed next year through the New Town also with the entire route to the Croatian border. I'd touch the dynamics myself for a while. The dynamics are set up to ensure that transport is handed over in the coming years, that is, by the end of 2008, all motorway sections in Gorenjska, Dolenjska and still in connection to Pomurje, i.e. the entire pomurski motorway leg on the market. Therefore, this objective, which was in some way even overworked, is known to have already taken a decision by the previous government to increase the dynamics of the ferryway, or to speed up with construction, which is why this government and, of course, the ministry also pursued this objective, because for several reasons it is necessary to complete the entire fifth European corridor. Not only to ensure the flow of our own needs, for inter-regional connection, but also for transit transport, which is extremely high and large in this part of Slovenia. These are the needs that are in some way also required, which are met on the basis of the needs of the East-West links in the fifth European corridor from Lyon to Budapest and beyond. In short, the toll system, which I hope we will implement in 2008, will have to be built on a technology platform that will last for years. The requirement that the system is interoperable between itself and other systems in other countries means that it is important that it is reasonable to understand each other's systems. In this phase of preparation for the transition to a complete open electronic system, Slovenia started with two pilot projects to complete the system upgrade, not only for technology, but also for everything else, which is significantly more delicate and difficult, that the system that collects more than 30 to 50 billion Slovenian tolars when the system works is fully and 100% reliable and secure. This is why, of course, there is no risk on each project in this case and cannot be, so of course we will follow this objective to implement it on the basis of the experience gained from both pilot projects. It is difficult to talk today about a decision on technology, both of which are recommended by the European Union. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u209	Thank you, Minister of Transport, Mr. Christmas. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Squeak, Anderlich. Anyone else? No one else. Every five minutes, please, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u210	Thank you very much to the Minister for further clarification. Of course, what I lack in his explanations, although I think that what you said at least about electronic tolling, is all correct, at least according to the information you gave, but I am still asking whether the government really takes into account that people will behave rationally when you are the first in the world or when we first introduce electronic tolling into the world. The experience of a number of countries, not least the most developed countries in the world, shows that it is simply not possible to capture everyone because people simply do not go to this highway cross. And in this sense, I would like to stress what I said earlier -- people with increasingly lower standards will also not be able to afford the prosperity of driving through their money-built highway crossing if electronic tolling is done in a way that will close the entire cross. Then pressure will be exerted on state roads and we will be in a vicious circle when on the one hand we have a loaded highway with financial resources, which will, of course, require an appropriate toll rise, adjustment of these tolls, if not the other, at least the growth of European inflation [[We'll probably take over the euro by then.]] , and it will not be possible to obtain sufficient amounts of funds from transit traffic alone. I am therefore afraid that the assumption in the model that there will be significant steps since 2008 is about 40% of the increase in toll yields, from the type of titles, increased traffic, a larger volume of toll roads, a more closed system and free-flow tolls in this system, because otherwise I can't imagine how, especially in the week’s corners, traffic would run along these motorways, which I can't imagine without electronic tolling. So, I'm simply troubled by this huge assumption of yours. If this assumption is not fulfilled, then, Mr Christmas, you know it well, a second assumption needs to be realized. And this second assumption is that Mr Janša will provide you with much more money in the state budget by 2008. And in these months, when we discuss it, we have not heard these two assurances. All of this, of course, would not be a problem, Mr Minister, if these two assumptions were not the basis for Dars, for the first time, to become a share company and that this is such a type of equity company, which with its own resources, is said to be tolls and the provision of money from the state budget at an annual level of approximately 40, 45, 50 billion, of course also ensuring that the project being implemented, the highway project, is also ultimately able to repay all these loans. These two assumptions restored the volume of funds to around 50 billion from 2008 onwards and provided 40% of the increase in toll yields are these two assumptions on a major issue. That is why I hope, Mr Minister, that for 2007, 2008 you will be much more successful than in the past, especially in convincing the government and European technocrats and a significant amount of funding for the construction of motorways from European sources. Otherwise, this project will collapse and when this project collapses, when this project is no longer a self-financing project, it will also become a formal Slovenian public debt, and Slovenia and Slovenia will pay more for 75 billion interest on given terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u211	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u212	It is a pity that the government has not yet reported its 5 minutes so that it may be able to explain something, given that the Minister has actually made full use of what he had previously available, but it seems to me that this discussion is very sporting. On the one hand, we ask, some beliefs here we confess, but on the other hand, they try to set us up on what is written in the papers, and we know all together and the minister has confirmed it nicely, it's not a "Russian rooster", but it's something flexible, something flexible. I fear that in a beautiful part it is even fluid that what goes as freely runs, as the first president of the Slovenian government said very early: "If it is round, there will be a shovel, if the villas will be pointed." That would be bad for this program. But I want to do it now, because it's been years and years, and I hope he'll be my minister, because he doesn't have time now, and he'll explain the second time after the meeting. I would like to hear, for the last five years in the National Assembly, whether in the course of the debate of the resolutions, whether in the course of the debate on the annual programme or in the case of guarantees or loans, that we will now come up with an electronic way of collecting the toll in the free flow, etc. I know that three years ago it was voted here that Dars was going on the basis of an annual programme into a toll test system, even mentioned that it would be at Voklem or at Toro's toll station, it seems to me or what it's called. In addition, I have read a number of these issues in the newspapers in recent times in connection with invitations to tender, complaints, rescinded debates and expectations that something will happen. At the same time, I read that one group of very strong reputable companies is being brought together around one group that is developing a system and thinking with Galileo seriously, on the other hand, I know how these systems are being prepared or upgraded on microwaves, and also in this group there is obviously thinking about some other matter. Tell me when within these flexible, flexible provisions, which are in this annual programme, a decision will be taken to go either in a trial or, I don't know, test or whatever you call it, or a starting system that will then, of course, remain and will be upgraded by a free-flow tolling system. When is this gonna happen? Also because of what I said earlier that funds have been allocated to the annual programme in the past years, but now there is an additional argument if you say that you have evaluated, although you do not have the authority to do some stations, because the National Assembly has accepted this, but I accept it; will you - so you have two sources, one already determined in the annual programme, that this test system will be introduced, the other to do tolling or we can expect it in this year, and when and in what way? Of course, I'm saying because there's no time, I'll probably get an answer later.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u213	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal for a decision on the agreement to the annual plan, we will decide today in the framework of the vote in half an hour, which is at 18.55. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 6:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u214	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, please calm down. We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving to a vote on the proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. I'm guessing all the devices work fine. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Dars d.d., from loans and issued debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia amounting to EUR 1,030.15 million. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We have only one amendment to Article 1 tabled by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 46. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. I'm finishing second reading. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading of the amended proposal, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. On the question of coordination, I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! There is a need for a harmonisation amendment because the law adopted on Tuesday is somewhat different, and we have also drawn up this harmonisation amendment on the basis of the opinion of the Legal Service of the National Assembly. In the first indent of the second paragraph, the word "credits" is added after the word "credits", and for the word "tradings", I quote: "... or debt securities may be issued in multiple series". In Article 5, the second indent of paragraph 1 of Article 1 shall be inserted after the word 'national'. In the third paragraph of Article 1, the word "network" shall be inserted after the word "network", the remainder of the text shall be deleted by the end of the paragraph. In Article 2, the words ‘up to and including 2010’ shall be deleted at the end and the words ‘up to and including 2010’ shall be added. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u216	The amendment read by Mr Minister is now being distributed. I'm opening a debate. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u217	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! This is an important harmonisation amendment to an important law. It is EUR 247 billion and, as a minimum, I would expect the leadership of the National Assembly to provide that for such a harmonisation amendment, as in the case of budgets, an appropriate opinion of the competent home labour body. This is the Finance Board. It is a matter of adding suddenly in Article 2 "until including 2010", we could also write this "until including 2007 or 2008" and so on. There are other things. It is about the fact that, in the debate so far, we have devoted ourselves to the preparation of the right laws by the government. The amendment you just read to us, however, in our opinion, requires a minimum definition of the competent parent working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u218	The harmonisation amendments shall not be discussed by the parent working bodies. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would expect us to discuss this matter for a long time. After all, it is questionable whether it is a harmonisation amendment or, in fact, amendments to the whole law. So I don't know if we can accept this on such short notice. After all, it is huge money, and one would expect the Ministry of Finance to be better prepared for such a law as is now the case. In addition, I think that if we do, I hope that we will get the amendments on the table, so far we do not have them, that we have at least some time to think about them and then discuss them, because there are not enough changes to quickly read. Yeah, we're about to win, I'm sorry. We didn't have one before. I don't have it right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u220	I'm asking if you want some time. Of course, you must have time to get acquainted with the amendment. I'm taking eight minutes off. We'll resume the session 10 minutes later in seven. Nineteen o'clock.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u221	Dear Members and honourable Members! We continue with the 24th item of the agenda, the debate on the harmonisation amendment. Who wants to discuss it? Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u222	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Minister! What you are proposing to us as a coordinating amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for Dars obligations and so on is, of course, not a harmonisation amendment. This is not a compliance amendment. Why? If you look at the detailed explanation, the government itself says that this amendment has been proposed because on Tuesday an agreement law was passed, which has defined certain provisions differently. And it would be correct - I hope that you do not need to be taught - to have this amendment submitted by the beginning of the second reading, so today until 9:00 a.m. What you are trying to do today, because one law has been passed, is to coordinate with this law in the third reading with the harmonisation amendment of the amendments to the articles that have not even been adopted - to point out to you in article 140, third paragraph, that it is possible to table amendments in the third reading only to the article to which the amendments were adopted in the second reading, and I do not recall that any amendments could be adopted in the second reading - you have, of course, an irregular procedure under my control. That is why I propose as a minimum, or that you call on the legislative and legal service to explain this situation to us, or that, I don't know, we will return to the second reading, the government will table this amendment as an amendment to the second reading, because on Tuesday an agreement law was passed, and then we can continue with the story. But everything else is, in my opinion, an inappropriate work of the National Assembly. If these two laws were to be dealt with correctly together, this guarantee law, for which you are now proposing a harmonisation amendment, should be proposed by this harmonisation amendment or this amendment by the governments on Tuesday evening rather than today, when we have completed the second reading. So please, according to which Rule of Procedure I do not know which Rule of Procedure already, I think that 67th, you should call the legislature to tell us whether we respect the procedure for the third reading of the bill. Article 140 does not say that if we have two laws at the same time under consideration, we are coordinating between them. There is something similar about the budget, but in this situation I think that the government should put this amendment in place at the beginning of the second reading. So please, Mr. President, do this. Why is that important? Because, you know, in the consent law we just said that Dars has this debt by the year, I don't know, this and this, could also say that the guarantee is only valid until 2007. But of course this is not the content of the third reading, this is the content of the second reading. That is why a government such an amendment - or anyone who is concerned about the proper functioning of the legislative procedure in the national assembly - should put in place a legislative procedure by the beginning of the second hearing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u223	In view of the fact that the desire for clarification by the legislative and legal service is I ask that the legislative and legal service explain the issue raised and join us. In the meantime, we continue the debate. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u224	Mr President, I think it would be very good for you to break up with this debate. Your role is to reject documents that are not properly filed. Last but not least, this is happening to Members of Parliament. This applies to draft laws, this applies to referendum initiatives and should also apply to amendments. If they are not invested as necessary, they cannot be opened for discussion. This is some unnecessary handiwork, two days ago in the debate, our colleagues warned that it was too urgent to adopt that act and that it was necessary to see how things would be done under this law. That's when you heard all this. Today you are trying to push a procedure into the National Assembly, of course you can force anyone to accept it with some majority, but this will be a precedent. I myself do not recall the situation that no amendment or amendment would have been tabled on any proposal for a law, and then the government would, without anyone finding out that the law is not harmonised, normally the President or the President would have said that, bring about a harmonisation amendment. How would we reconcile it if nothing was adopted in the procedure itself? Therefore, President, it is my suggestion that we stop this decision, to think more carefully about these things, to continue with other things, to talk about billions of euros, and therefore it seems to me that it should not be difficult for anyone to come to the National Assembly again. Of course, it is very important that those people who try to gain this kind of consent from the National Assembly respect the legislation to the last point and the comma. That's the question. I don't know if you're going to do any construction that will allow us to interpret this role in an elastic way this time, but there will certainly be a great shadow of doubt. My proposal, Mr President, is to put an end to this point and move forward with those things that are well-prepared, and your lawyers will reconsider that and then decide whether to reject the law and accept it again in the next procedure or if there is a possibility that this process is to be completed. This is a very important question, which is related to the credibility of your functions as well as of this assembly, so I would not like you to move quickly on to your colleagues making this decision, let's move on, because we have been talking long enough. This is an acceptable argument for those who doubt this procedure is not.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u225	Thank you. I would ask that the Legal and Legislative Service answer the question, or the obvious, that the coordination process runs contrary to the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to the proposed harmonisation amendments, I think this is the following. Article 1 of the draft guarantee law was amended in the second reading at the home working body, with regard to the clear definition of the purpose for which the funds to be provided in the intended forms of debt are to be provided. Thus, the third paragraph at the end of the text was amended to read the proposal of the consent law which followed and was adopted on Tuesday, i.e. 7.2. and was amended to paragraph 1 in the second paragraph, which also sets out the purpose of the use of the funds, was amended to paragraph 2 which deals with the conditions of the debt in one or the other form and was amended to Article 3 which deals with the basis for defining the dynamics of the implementation of the works to which these funds will be used in such a way. With regard to the very purpose of the use of funds by the amendment to this second agreement law, which is also the basis for the debt, sections of the motorway and the renewal of the motorway network, without a clear definition of the sections, of course, were specified. With regard to dynamics, both the resolution and the annual plans for the development and renewal of motorways are taken into account for the period up to and including 2010. In view of the fact that Article 1 of the second reading was amended in the context of the consideration of the guarantee law in relation to the other slightly different structure of the content itself, the purpose of the definition of the use of funds, as defined in Article 3, paragraph 1, was to define explicitly the reference to the resolution in the national programme and in the annual plans, but for 2005 and 2006. Thus, the amendment was Article 1 of the Law on Guarantee in Work concerning the purposeful use of these funds. And now, taking into account how purposeful spending is defined in the consent law, which has also changed in the course of the second reading, it is estimated that our assessment is necessary because the contents of both laws are necessarily related or interdependent, we believe that this is a necessary substantive harmonisation both in terms of purpose, both in terms of the conditions for indebtedness in the second paragraph of Article 1, as well as in terms of the dynamics of the use of funds and the implementation of the works, that these are necessary changes that have the nature of the harmonisation amendment. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u227	Thank you for the legal and legislative services. We continue the debate on the harmonisation amendment. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nevertheless, I would like to have the answer to the question raised. Now we've heard one legal bravo without tail and head, which seemed very well-trained, but we didn't get an answer. This is what is actually pushing a complete legal profession out there in Slovenia, I would say to garbage, because this is a way of speaking that is not going anywhere. The question was simple and exact: whether this harmonisation amendment is okay or not. And I'd like to have that answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u229	I think it's very clear. The non-compliance was due to amendments adopted on the working body and the harmonisation amendment was necessary and corrected. Mr. Squeakle, please. Please, debate and nothing else about procedure, because the procedure is clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u230	Mr. Chairman! If the procedure were clear, then of course we wouldn't have a legal and regulatory service here right now. Look, Mr. Chairman! I'll talk about the content. My substantive question is very simple. This law was dealt with in the second reading or, if you would like, these two laws were dealt with in the second reading first at the home work bodies. And it is true, first of all, that a meeting of the Finance Committee was convened and we adopted some text of the guarantee law. Then, in the morning, before the meeting of the National Assembly or the second day, there was a meeting of the Marketing Committee. And we've adopted a different text of the consent law. In the course of the meeting of the National Assembly, we first adopted the consent law. And I know that these two marriages need to be aligned with each other - but when is this done? When is this done? As sorry, Article 140 does not refer to third reading [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u231	Please talk about the content not the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u232	Yes, Mr President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u233	We cleared up the procedure and that was a procedural question that was answered. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u234	Mr President, please, don't look, Mr President! [[...]] We have set a deadline for the consent law in 2010. We did not speak about the year 2010 on the Committee on Finance or in the course of a five-hour debate in this National Assembly in the second reading. No one, no government or coalition, wanted to limit this guarantee to 2010. This is a substantive debate. And, of course, Rule 140 of the Rules of Procedure does not refer to the third reading of the proposals of the law, but rather to the third reading of the proposal of the law. And don't say anything about if a single law was passed somewhere, that a third reading would be possible to act as a compliance amendment to this law. That's not what the Rules of Procedure say. Of course, I regret that here in some way the legislative and legal service is doing what the government has not done. The government should simply mediate this amendment as a second reading amendment. Mr Starman should once again convene the Committee on Finance, say that Mr Kangler, as chairman of the Committee, together with other Members, has adopted a different text and should have the guarantee law re-examined. That's all the content. Now, without actually discussing this in the second reading, to limit the guarantee to 2010, you say that it must also be written in the guarantee law. Why is that? It could also be here in 2008 or in 2015. Because we don't even know why 2010. 2010 was not provided for in the Guarantee Act. 2010 entered into the consent law. And the procedure of the National Assembly does not address the third treatment of twins' laws, but it does not. And of course, you can now convince me; of course, the legislative and legal service here has made it clear that it is right that we have a harmonisation amendment, the legislative and legal service did not say that the government could bring this amendment to a substantive discussion, tabled it at the beginning of the second hearing, today at 9 a.m., but not today practically at 7 p.m. And that's what this is about. And of course, if you don't care whether the guarantee is 2008, 2010, 2012 and you are doing it in the third reading with the harmonisation amendment, gentlemen, the ruling coalition, vote. In doing so, however, it is not possible to violate the rules of procedure of the National Assembly and there is no such possibility in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Otherwise, the Rules of Procedure would provide for the third treatment of twins' laws or proposals for laws, in plurality rather than a proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u235	Once again, we're not in violation of the rules of procedure. And the requirements for the government to table some amendments in the second reading are unfounded. And anyone who knows little about the rules of procedure knows that such demands are strange, because the government cannot put amendments on its proposal. However, it can table a harmonisation amendment in the third reading, before the vote, and the government has done so. Please, let's close the discussion on the procedure. Anyone else on the harmonisation amendment? Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u236	Thank you very much. I just want to say, in my own name, that I will not support the harmonisation amendment. But this is not for substantive reasons, but because I think that for billions and 30 million Euros of debt and guarantee, we must also get the government and this National Assembly used to no matter what procedure we decide on such a thing. Please be careful enough that we don't care - if we have to make such important decisions at night in the National Assembly, then let them be well thought out so that we don't get to the last day of the question, as you explain, clearly, we don't all understand these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u237	Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u238	Mr President, I will use the Rules of Procedure and I will return to the procedure, because I still think that there is a shadow of doubt that this is worth clearing up. See, the Rules of Procedure, when referring to the third reading, under point 5 says: "If the legislative and legal service or the government finds that, with the amendments adopted, the individual provisions of the draft law are mutually inconsistent or inconsistent with other laws, it points out to the President. In such a case, the chairman shall set time for the proposer to prepare a harmonisation amendment." This is being done on the assumption that an amendment has been adopted in the context of the second reading which has led to this non-compliance. In the context of the second reading, the ruling coalition could, as always, table these types of amendments. We didn't discuss it. The content comes, of course, as a harmonisation amendment, also a point which did not actually have a greater connection to this debate. That's why I don't think it's that simple. Keep what the chairman of the legislative and legal service says, that it is good if all the rules are in the necessary composition; no one is "disputing". What we "dispute" is that it has to be done in a formal correctional manner. What we think is that the Ministry of Finance is not doing its job well; that it is not able to submit acts in such a way that there is no dispute; that it is not able to respond to the debates in the National Assembly by following the decisions already taken. From this point of view, consideration is needed. I will not speak myself, but I will say that I will oppose these kinds of amendments, because I think you have brought him into the process contrary to the procedure, even if it may be necessary to comply with the laws. That's already your responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u239	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What we are doing now is nothing more than raping the procedure and raping this Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This National Assembly has rules of procedure in order to respect it, and this is a systematic violation of the rules of the game, procedure and I cannot participate in this, so I will not support this so-called harmonisation amendment. I'm not gonna break it because it's not any kind of harmonisation amendment. If we give 248 billion tolls by 2010, by 2020 or 2030, there is a significant substantive difference. This substantial substantive difference should be made by the Minister of Finance on the basis of a well-thought-out study based on a deliberate responsibility. We're here today simply to rape the procedure to give a number and then say no, because that's it. No, that's not it, the government has proven once again that it does not master the procedure, that it does not master the basic administrative procedures, and that is a serious problem. And I am truly sorry that this house, this institution, does not have the courage to be so brave that we do not have the courage of Members to give a single government here, simply to give a "yellow card" to the district minister, and to correct the matter. Apparently, he's going to have to say "red card" at the final stage, because it really doesn't work anymore, it's nothing like that anymore! And to talk at this stage about the harmonisation amendment is really funny. I think that's true for everyone who's here today, clearly, and I'm truly sorry that you think this is a political game. It is not about any political game, but about respect for democratic rules of the game. You know, in the middle of a game, rules can't just change. We can't keep making them up, and I think it's about the integrity of this house, that it's not just about the attitude of Members if you want, of the opposition, but also of coalitions. That's how easy it is to cover a slump. We have been elected by the people even under certain assumptions that we will respect the laws and constitution of this country and respect the rules of the game that we have agreed upon here. It's just a little bit of a stretch now, a little bit of thread, a little play, and that's not right. And I think we're all aware of that here today, just that we're talking about one thing out loud, and the other we're not. And I'll say the familiar thing, talk about it out loud, that it won't happen to you again. And I think that, as I said, it is the integrity of this house, so of course I cannot support this so-called harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u241	Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u242	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'll be very brief, although I doubt he'll be able to help with this complication. This harmonisation amendment appears to be controversial in 2010. The year 2010 is found in the supplementary proposal of the Guarantee Act, in the second paragraph of the first indent, which reads: "The funds can be drawn in multiple instalments by the end of 2010". It is said that there is no dilemma now, whether by 2020, or 2006, or 2008, 2010 is the anniversary of the amended proposal for a law. I will therefore support this revised harmonisation amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u243	Thank you. Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In response, you said to Mr Squill that the government, in second reading, cannot table amendments to its law. This is certainly the rule of law. However, that is also true, and if I understand correctly, this law was changed to a second reading on the working body with an amendment. And the law, which has been supplemented and amended, allows the government to intervene in the second reading of this article. This is certainly what the government has the opportunity to do. Given that the proposed amendment has been appointed as a harmonisation amendment, although the substantive amendment is likely to be required, there is a lack of consistency between the resolution and the law, I cannot support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u245	Thank you. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u246	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. At the suggestion of one of our colleagues, I think we have listened to the interpretation of the complexity of the legislative and legal service. Given that the explanation of vote or debate is, I am a little surprised at the debate of the predecessor, who, I think, is the President of the Rules of Procedure Commission, and that he interprets how and when the government can table amendments to its proposals. My colleague Kontic, I propose that we take a course and that we also get to know those of us who are new to this national assembly and who do not know the rules of procedure. I wouldn't expect you to explain it this way, given that the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained how it was. Secondly, what I would like to say, and I think that I would like to join the debate of a colleague who discussed earlier, is that we do not really interfere with this harmonisation amendment and define some of the years as was the speech in 2006, 2007 or 2015. I think my colleague Horvath said earlier, we're correcting the first indent of the second paragraph, which says, "Resources" we add "credits" can draw in more "traffics", then we add the word "or rather paper values in more series" by the end of 2010. Then we repeat this year, we delete the point in Article 2, and at the end of the text we say "up to and including 2010". I would like to repeat that because it is the same matter, it is the same securities, it is the same guarantees, it is the same projects - one law on the Transport Committee, one law on the Finance Committee - I assess and I believe that the only way the government can intervene is by coming into third treatment with the harmonisation amendment. And that's why I'm going to support this harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u247	Thank you. Mr. Kontic has reached out to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u248	Thank you very much. That was my opinion, but there was another way. If not a government, coalition Members could do what you do a number of times. But I am still saying that in this case the government could intervene in the second reading. And if we prepare a seminar or an education course, Mr. Bajc, we will invite you to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u249	Thank you. Mrs. Kucler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Perhaps it would be more useful for my colleague Lahovnik than to wave with this Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to read it, and I think he would have found here an answer to the dilemmas he has raised. It states that, in the third reading of the draft law in the harmonisation procedure with the harmonisation amendments, the amendments adopted may remove the mutual non-conformity of the individual provisions of the bill or the non-conformity of the bill with other laws. The following page of the explanatory memorandum states that it follows that the harmonisation amendment should be drawn up in the event that the legislative procedure - in brackets - [[Second reading at the working body, second reading at the national assembly and third reading]] the amendments have been adopted. So today's process, as the legislative and legal service rightly said, is entirely in line with this book and we will also follow it as we support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u251	Thank you. Please, Mr. Brenčič, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u252	Thank you very much. The Rules of Procedure shall, during the course of the sitting, have the right to interpret the Rules of Procedure only to the Presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u253	I have clearly explained the rules of procedure. On the basis of a long, very clear interpretation of the legislative and legal service, and you're still going around and I'm going to stop anyone who's going to be spinning on this issue again. Please. It is not the agenda of the Rules of Procedure, but it is the harmonisation amendment. Hold on, at least some discipline, or we'll be sitting here by midnight. Mr. Lakhovnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u254	I have a replica. Only no amendment has been tabled or has not been adopted. That's one thing, of course, if you're really waving with the rules of procedure, the other if you're reading it, and the third if you understand it. So, yeah. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u255	Mr. Lakhovnik, we've cleared these things up.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u256	Dear Mrs. Kucler, thank you for reading the matter because you're with this right now. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u257	Mr. Lakhovnik, we've cleared these things up. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service shall have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, I would like to draw attention to just one more in this debate. Therefore, in the context of this coordination, it is also necessary to cut to Article 2 of the proposed guarantee law, which has not been amended in the course of the second reading. It is said that it was not open and could not be cut into the content as opposed to the harmonisation amendment. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u259	Thank you. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 12. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 12.]] Mr Squeakl, you have spoken three times, three times and not once or only once in part about the amendment, but I have concluded the discussion on the rules of procedure. We are moving on to a full vote on the law. Voice explanation, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u260	I would ask you kindly if you would quote me in a third reading article of the Rules of Procedure, how many times can a Member speak on the subject of third reading, especially when we receive new information from the legislative and legal service. Now, quote this to me, and then I'll agree that you've been "rightly" in violation of the rules of procedure, under the terms. What you are doing today, Mr President, is not to allow a debate on such an important issue, whether we are properly opening Section 2 of the Act, or whether we are making guarantees in the right way by 2010 or 2020, these are too important questions. At first glance, it looks like we're making a guarantee up to a year. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u261	We have concluded the debate on the Rules of Procedure, Mr Squeakl.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u262	So please, if you could get out of the rules of procedure [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u263	Following the explanation of the legislative and legal service, we have concluded this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u264	You said I spoke twice, three times, and I can't talk for a fourth time. That's not in the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u265	I would ask that we are not a kindergarten, but a national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr. Squeakl. Sit down! [[A laugh in the hall.]] Does anyone want to explain the voice, first on behalf of the parliamentary group? On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Potch. Mr. Squeakle, you've already had procedural, wait for the next point. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In two days, we tried to work hard and discuss important decisions thoroughly. I do not believe that anyone in this hall and after all is not widespread in Slovenia, who is not interested in the implementation of the highway programme and who is not aware that it takes money to build a highway programme and other roads. And we probably all know that this money is not sufficiently guaranteed, "cash" this moment entirely in Slovenia, not even in the budget, not in the toll and that therefore the hiring of certain credits is necessary and necessary. The discussions thus revolved around whether credits were needed to this extent as proposed or not; whether other sources of funding for this programme could and could not be considered as necessary, with the discussion also focused on the possibilities of providing European cohesion funds, possibly others, but especially cohesion funds. And the debate was about whether, as of today, we have the resources available to cover Dars' loan obligations, or whether it is possible that, even at the time of the maturity of the loans, we will not have these funds unless we make a certain decision in the meantime. These decisions are either related to the completion of toll collection for all those who today have access to the motorway without paying the toll, or to the introduction of a completely different tolling system, which will accompany us all on all roads and will also charge us every ride from the country of certain roads. We all know that we have not received the answers to this question. The debate on whether those of us who wanted to have a clear position from government representatives from the country also meant opposition to the construction of motorways were incorrect. The government coalition can believe everything the government says and is actually its duty. In the opposition, we have the right to ask whether everything that is proposed and wants to be arranged drinks water, has real grounds or not. I must say that the majority of the members of the parliamentary group who are aware of the urgency of the programme have not received all the answers, and that is why most of this law will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u267	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, Mr Lahovnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u268	I have a procedural proposal, Mr President. On behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group, I demand a 10-minute recess, because we will consult before voting first and foremost whether we want to participate in the work of the National Assembly, because we find your comparison with kindergarten offensive. In kindergarten, there are qualified teachers, and you have proved that you have no qualifications or will to respect the procedure in this National Assembly. This is the National Assembly and not some monastery where the dogmas apply, so please give us a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u269	After the stage of explanation of vote, I'm going to set a 10-minute break. Does any other group want a break? We are now in the voice-explanatory phase. Mr Barovic, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues? I'm not going to comment on things that aren't, of course, even worth the effort and the work that we're putting in, but let's just leave it. In the Slovenian National Party, we will make it clear that we will not support the guarantee law for the following reasons. First time. This law violates the decision in this Chamber that the State of the Republic of Slovenia should not owe more than 3% of the gross social product. Explanation: Only this debt, without any other, brings 4%. The second reason why the Slovenian National Party will not support the law is that the Slovenian National Party assesses and is convinced that this National Assembly violates Article 33 of the Law on the implementation of the budget. The third most important reason, however, is that in this national assembly we will also violate the resolution on enforcement or the resolution on the construction of motorways, which we have also adopted. Three valid valid reasons, and if we have already accepted all three of the facts that I have cited, let us be so fair and first change them and then accept this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u271	Thank you. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] We move on to an explanation of vote in our own name. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a full vote on the law. Excuse me. I allocate 10 minutes of breaks, and at 20.05 we continue the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u272	Dear Members and honourable Members! We're continuing our session. We are before the vote, and I ask the motioner whether he wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u273	Mr President, we called for an interruption because what we are doing or doing tonight is a grave violation of the rules. In a very ambiguous way, we open Section 2 of the Act and set out in it an important substantive novelty. The question is whether this law will be adopted in accordance with the applicable procedure, with the applicable rules of procedure of the National Assembly. I agree that, of course, it hurts to warn the government, the ruling coalition, that at the time of the adoption of such an important guarantee, the guarantee for more than 247 billion tolars, the procedure is not fully respected. In particular, we regret that you are at the forefront of this disregard for the procedure. That is why we have proposed a pause to calm our passions and to reflect on what you will do today, Members of the ruling coalition. With some harmonisation amendment that is more than substantive, for which there would be more than enough possibility for Members of the ruling coalition or anyone else who has the option to submit it, we are re-setting the framework of this guarantee. After consulting the Group of Members, we decided not to fall for the provocations you are conducting here and that we will draw attention to the issue on the agenda in the part of the National Assembly today. We still have a few points today when the procedure was not respected. When we proposed halting the drug law procedure, we should interrupt it today on a proposal from the government. But with regard to the guarantee law itself, after consultation, we will not support it. The 1,030 million-euro guarantee bill, for 247 billion tolars, currently burdens every Slovenian with 740,000 tolars from today. That Slovenian guy who makes money so we can sit here today. And it would be good if, when we sit in this national assembly, when we adopt laws, we fully respect the procedure. It is therefore necessary to conduct this national assembly better and to raise political culture in this national assembly. We regret that passions are so overheated, but we understand that it hurts to warn you that we are double-guaranteeing EUR 1,030 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u274	Thank you. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 19. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 26th paragraph of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a social law. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a social law, the first consideration, is suitable for further consideration. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mrs. Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u275	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Our Group of Members, or the LDS Group of Members, will not support the proposal of the parent working body. Already in the morning, in our explanation of our view of this law, we said that the concept of the law is completely unclear, because it is not also based on the actual need to go into the adoption of a completely new law. In fact, the bill increases the state's regulation, in particular as regards the financial functioning of societies, which is particularly unacceptable for small societies. In fact, the law will depress individuals to continue to participate actively in society and to accept more responsibility for them. For example, we talk about liability for the legality of society, including our personal property, when it comes to the responsibility of a representative of society. The applicant did not necessarily hold the necessary public debate and did not take into account the observations and proposals of individual societies and their associations. The bill is not based on the experience, diversity and tradition of working societies in Slovenia. One swing tries to regulate legally the activities of various societies, small and large, those who are poor and those in which money flows and may also be laundering, different societies, whether they are cultural, sports, humanitarian or professional, whether they are granted public powers or whether they exercise public interest or not. The LDS Group cannot support this proposal as a suitable basis for further consideration. We believe that the text is totally unacceptable and, let's say, I call it a legislative victory and we completely oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u276	Thank you. Mr. Kumer, on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u277	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We will also not support the bill in its current form in the Social Democrats' Group as a suitable basis for further consideration. The reason is very simple and clear. It is based on the previous practice of working in this National Assembly and the government's attitude as a proponent and voting majority in this National Assembly to draft proposals, amendments by the opposition, which have almost no chance of success. It is said that in order to successfully improve also bad marriage proposals or things that are now defined in the law. That is why, in the Group of Social Democrats, we have also decided to propose that the government withdraw this proposal and enter into an intensive dialogue in drafting the proposal together with representatives of societies, i.e. those directly affected by this law and its provisions. Office analysis and identification of what would be good for more than 19 000 societies in Slovenia, what is needed to prevent abuse, introduce better control and so on, is a surviving method and form of preparation of marriage solutions. Users, actors and those directly involved in everyday life are the ones most likely to contribute to the good content of the law when drafting this proposal. It is therefore incomprehensible that the government avoids this type of drafting of the bill. This is because the law is being prepared by the Ministry of the Interior, and it is not a repressive law. It's a marriage that reaches into the prime interests of a few hundred thousand people. It therefore deserves a different treatment, a different approach and a different way of making a law. And once again, we call on this majority in the National Assembly to take our time and not least the government will keep the promise made by the representative of last July to the societies that when the interdepartmental matter is coordinated in the government, they will sit down with them and prepare concrete corrections to this proposal. They have not done so, so once again we propose that they do so now.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u278	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u279	Thank you very much. I too will speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Otherwise, in the opening presentation, we have already said exactly what is or is disturbing us in the draft law that we have had a general discussion about. Allow me to briefly repeat the essence, which is still important, important in order to say no to the law. What is lost in this law and under this government are the values, meaning and purpose of societies for society. Although we have addressed important questions to the Minister about what is a generally beneficial activity, what we miss in this law is a detailed explanation. On that basis too, we wanted or would make decisions. The Minister has not replied to any of the questions raised in the broad general debate that we have held today. Also because of what I have already said, we will say no to the law, because we do not believe that the ministry or government is prepared to amend the law in such a way as to be acceptable, particularly for the benefit of societies or a wide society.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u280	Thank you. Does anyone else want to explain their voice on behalf of the Member of Parliament? Does anyone want to do it on their own? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 25. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 29th item of the agenda - the consideration of the annual development plan and the renewal of motorways for 2006. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the agreement on the 2006 annual road development and renewal plan, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees on the 2006 annual road development and renewal plan adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its meeting on 2 December 2005 and 16 January 2006. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Procedurally, please, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u281	The government adopted this document on 2 December, today and Tuesday we passed two laws. [[...]] I suppose there is a discrepancy between what the government adopted on 2 December and what we are today, because otherwise I do not know why these two laws would have been so painfully aligned. I would therefore suggest that, at least correctly in the decision, the following should be added: 'Considering today and Tuesday, the law has been passed'. Minimum.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u282	Unfortunately, we are in the voting phase and there is no more discussion or further explanations and so on. Someone would like to explain their vote on behalf of the Group of Members. [[No, no, ……]] In your own name? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. The vote on the proposed decision is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. (The vote was 62.)(No one opposed.) I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 9th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal for a drug law. In accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposed to the assembly that the third review of the draft Law on Medicinal Products be postponed to the February meeting of the National Assembly. You received the government's proposal on the bench. Representatives of the groups of Members may submit their views on this proposal after 3 minutes. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Mr. Germič, would you like to speak on behalf of the Group of Members for 3 minutes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u283	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. My late application, I'm sorry. The point is that I expected Mr Minister to give further reasons for the proposal we received at the table. Given that he did not want a word, of course, I would just like to say that we will support in the parliamentary group the government's proposal that further consideration and decision on the law be transferred to the next meeting. Of course, I am concerned by the fact that the Government cites it on the grounds that we have adopted amendments in the second reading, which have led to a greater disharmony between the individual articles, while at the same time making certain areas incomplete. Of course, I am concerned that with further consideration by the government, we will be able to make such amendments as this law can make in such a way that, both within the framework of systemic solutions and within the framework of the solutions brought by this law, it is in fact consistent. I therefore regret the decision of this Parliament that it was unable to listen to the arguments already addressed by the opposition types in the second reading so that they could already be in a second reading in order to make this reflection, because the manoeuvre space for the law to be regulated in the sense of full regulation would be significantly more. Of course, I also regret that we have not heard the content of those defined by the Government that amendments that have led to greater non-compliance have been adopted in the second reading. Here I would like to point out that we have accepted the amendments on a proposal from the coalition. And the coalition has certainly been preparing amendments in agreement with the Ministry responsible for this law or with the government. This proposal to move this item of the agenda to one of the future meetings will be supported, in the desire that the government, as a proponent of this law, will be able to prepare such solutions so that we are not placed in the same procedural complications as we have witnessed to them just before the consideration of the previous law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, Mr Germich, for reminding me that I have not given my word to the government as a motion for a procedural proposal. Mr. Minister, if you wish, you have the same right three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u285	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. As regards our proposal to transfer the hearing to the next meeting of the National Assembly, there would be only a few additional explanations. We believe that some things still need to be harmonised, given that the changes to the second reading have been pronounced. This is mainly the case with paragraphs 61 and 104 of the amended proposal for a second reading, which were not opened at the time. With these amendments, the Institute of Pharmaceutical Inspection or Inspector was replaced by the Institute of Pharmaceutical Supervision or Supervisor. The amendments were adopted with a view to aligning with the new chapter and the articles setting out the establishment and tasks of the public agency for medicinal products and medical devices as the body responsible for medicinal products which, as a legal person, will be a public legal holder of public authority in the field of medicinal products. These are Articles 107a, 107b, 107c, 107d, 107e and f. under the provisions of Article 8 of the Inspection Control Act, which provides for the organisation of inspections, as an independent body in the composition of the Ministry or in exceptional cases within the body in the composition of the ministries, the holder of public powers may not carry out inspections without these harmonisation amendments. In most EU Member States, the authorities responsible for medicinal products exercise professional supervision, whether organised within or outside the national administration. It is therefore necessary to amend the provisions on the supervision of the amended proposal accordingly. I'd say it's easier this way to make it more understandable. In the first reading, the inspection service was provided for in the bodies in the composition or halograms in the composition and within them a pharmaceutical inspection. In the second reading, the public agency was accepted as a complementary proposal and within this public agency there were certain problems regarding inspection services. We therefore propose that, in the third reading, in an additional explanation, pharmaceutical supervision replaces pharmaceutical inspection with the same competences as pharmaceutical inspection. That's the basic reason. In recent times, however, the debate on this law has led to some other possible solutions that are open, and we will be preparing appropriate solutions at this time, as has been proposed on your part.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u286	Thank you. Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u287	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Socialist Group of Members, I announce my support for the proposal to move the discussion to the next meeting, i.e. the February meeting of the National Assembly. We too have been alerted to the shortcomings or weaknesses of this law. And a number of these were also eliminated at second reading. Given that we can only reopen the articles in the third reading where amendments were voted in second reading, there may also be concerns that the intervention in the articles that have been modified in a qualitative manner will be changed to a better one. Nevertheless, we hope in the Social Democrats Group that the government or the government coalition will not reach out to the 16th paragraph, where we have somehow removed comparable drugs under this law, and in an article where we have somehow limited this announcement of the release of medicines in specialised drug stores without a prescription. We therefore expect that this arrangement will remain in law. We support the proposal to move this item to the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-09-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u288	Thank you. Any other parliamentary group would like to discuss this procedural proposal? [[No, no, ……]] We are voting on a procedural proposal. There are 66 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I'm closing this agenda item. I am adjourning the 13th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
