ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u1	Good morning, good morning! Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed and inform you that they are excused for today and will not be able to attend the meeting of the following Members: colleague Franz Kangler, colleague Bojan Kontič, colleague Rudolf Može from 18:00 on and Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. We're moving on to 13. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a transport law in road transport. I'd like to inform you that we have two hours and 25 minutes scheduled for this point. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to give a brief explanation in the introduction to the Proposal for a Road Transport Act for which a general discussion is proposed. The purpose of the amendments introduced by the Proposal for a Law on Road Transport is mainly to update and simplify the existing Road Transport Act, to adapt and harmonise the current law for European legislation, on the basis of the principle of the direct validity of EU regulations, to delete provisions in the law governed by EU regulations. As we know, Slovenia has been subject to European regulations directly since it is a full member of the EU. Reduce the severity of the business of Slovenian carriers to the level required by EU rules, such as reducing the number of licensing conditions from 7 to 4. These are: good reputation, adequate financial position, appropriate professional competence and ownership of the vehicle or the right to use the vehicle on the basis of rental or leasing. Simplify the licensing process while reducing the number of criteria for the allocation of licences. Let me point out that, compared to the law in force in the field of the allocation of licences, the number of criteria for the allocation of licences and the slightly simplified procedure for the allocation of licences has been reduced, as the number of types of licences still required has been reduced to a minimum, and all the extra provisions have been deleted in that area. Grant a public mandate to carry out administrative tasks relating to the issue of licences and the distribution of licences to only one legal person to be selected in a public tender. So far, administrative tasks have been carried out by both the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. To supplement the provisions on control and penalties and to specify the powers of the supervisory and criminal authorities and to regulate the appropriate punishment of foreign carriers in the event of infringements. In summary, the draft Road Transport Act excludes unnecessary provisions, reduces or reduces the operating conditions of carriers to a minimum that is still permitted in European Union regulations, and provides for effective control and sanctioning of foreign carriers that violate the rules in the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Members and Members! I propose that you also support the proposed law after the debate on individual amendments and on the content of the law. So much for the introduction, Mr President, Members and Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Gezo Juban, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! At its 18th meeting on 8 November 2006, the Committee of the National Transport Council held a second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Road Transport, which was forwarded to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the ordinary legislative procedure. The introduction is the Minister of Transport, Mag. Janez Bozič presented the basic objectives and solutions of the draft law relating to the definition of unnecessary provisions, the reduction or reduction of operating conditions for carriers to a minimum, which is still allowed in EU rules to ensure effective control and sanctioning of foreign carriers in breach of the provisions of the Republic of Slovenia. The reasons presented by the Magi. Janez Christmas, we've also just heard from a representative of the government. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly makes specific comments to certain articles of the draft law. In particular, it recalls the provisions that are proposed to regulate the implementation of administrative tasks previously implemented by the Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce on the basis of a statutory public mandate. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport Committee also held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled by the coalition parties to Articles 3, 5, 6, 12, 13, 21, 55, 58, 82, 86, 90, 92, 93 and 129. He also accepted his amendments. In the debate, individual members of the Committee questioned the provision of Article 5 of the draft law relating to the delegation of public authority from the Minister to the Directorate. The representative of the Coordination of the United Automobiles of Slovenia drew attention to the provisions of the draft law relating to the granting of public authority, the supervision of the implementation of licences, the price for the issuing of licences and licences, the proposed amendment of the provisions of Article 7 of the law and the provision of Article 97 of the law. The Transport Committee has adopted amendments to Articles 3, 5, 6, 12, 13, 21, 55, 58, 82, 86, 90, 92, 93 and 129 of the Coalition Group. After the discussion on the articles of the draft law and the vote on the amendments and amendments tabled by the Committee in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u5	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jakob Presečnik will give the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! To begin with, the conditions for road transport under the conditions of Slovenia's membership in the European Union are, of course, significantly different than they were at the time of 2001, when the previous Road Transport Act arose, i.e. at the time of Slovenia's preparations for full membership or at the time of accession, Slovenia's approximation to the European Union. Therefore, a number of provisions have been introduced in the law in force, summarizing the provisions of the European Union's legal order at that time, including certain regulations of the European Union. In accordance with the legal order of the European Union, of course, the Regulation is not allowed to be introduced into the internal law of the Member States. The current law thus contains many provisions that are not appropriate at this time and is urgently needed to be amended. Given that the amendment was very extensive, the proposaler rightly decided to prepare a new Road Transport Act. In addition to the inadequacy of certain provisions of the current law, the proposal also deals with some other issues. Currently, road transport legislation in Slovenia is relatively strict, especially compared to European legislation. From a legal point of view, of course, this is not disputed, but Slovenian carriers have quite a few problems due to competitive backlog compared to other countries. In terms of increasing competition, this situation is poor, as the country, in our view, must, in compliance with European legislation, enable domestic carriers to have the best possible competitive conditions. The proposed law also imposes restrictions and conditions on road transport at a minimum, even permissible level, in accordance with the European legal order. The proposed law also introduces innovations in the area of licensing for road transport activities and the distribution of licences for those who have remained in this regard and as the applicant himself mentioned that this number is, of course, minimal compared to the period before Slovenia’s membership in the European Union. The amendment is necessary for the introduction of private chambers with voluntary membership, instead of the current Chamber of Public Economics of Slovenia. The administrative powers for the issue of licences and licences shall be conferred on the organisation to be selected in the public tender on the basis of public authorisation. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we consider the proposed law a good one. We think it is particularly important that the changes that will favour the conditions for Slovenian carriers and, as a result, lead to an equalisation of conditions with carriers from the other Member States of the European Union. The law follows to a large extent the comments of Slovenian carriers and that is why the members of the Slovenian People's Party will also support the law and the coalition amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u7	Thank you. My colleague Srečko Friend will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! What happened at the time of the adoption of this law is indeed an unacceptable act. Look, on the reference we received for the parent working body, for the parent working body meeting, it was nice to note that amendments can be tabled up to 2.11.2006. At the meeting itself, the Minister was also present, we received an initiative from the Chamber of Commerce to accept their amendments as amendments to the home working body, not to one article, but to almost all articles. There was a break. We later decided that what the Chamber of Commerce proposed was acceptable and that these amendments were included in the procedural procedure itself. I ask you whether this, of course, is legitimate if we do so, but the fact that it is not legal also warns the Legislative and Legal Service, which made 15 articles of its essential comments and probably did not take them into account by the Committee. Automobiles are threatening to protest, with state disobedience. And Milan Pinter, who was present, didn't have to agree. For the government thinks that if it has accepted at its meeting, even though it is a correspondence meeting, it is a law that it has already been adopted in the National Assembly; and so it behaves. And that's not right. In the area of the distribution of permits for trucking, we introduce a complete anarchy by means of this law. This will prove to be true later. Therefore, with respect and respect, this Proposal for a Road Transport Act for Slovenia is not acceptable to the national party and we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Rezman will give his position to the DeSUS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u10	A nice greeting to everyone and thank you so much for your word. Well, the government has decided to prepare a complicated new law and has given a number of reasons. The reasons behind the regulatory problems during the pre-accession period are, however, the problems underlying the implementation of the regulations and the excessive provisions, the unclear provisions and, in particular, we understand this, too harsh domestic legislation, which is more stringent for cities than European ones. It has further encouraged it to amend and reorganise in an integrated manner some of the following facts which I quote. Proposals, increasingly frequent, as it says, carriers - those for which this law is concerned - dissatisfaction, growing dissatisfaction of carriers - so again those for whom it is. "The government hopes so," he writes, quote, "that it will satisfy the carriers and also those who oversee the implementation of the regulations of this law." Of course, there is an immediate question, but what about the satisfaction of others who also care about certain other things, for example, for those who care about the environment? What further encouraged the Government for an integrated approach and for a comprehensive amendment to the law is the reorganisation of the Chamber and the arrangements for the granting of public authority. It further states that it is also encouraged by the chronic lack of bus and freight drivers. If I sum this up somehow, I can put it into a sentence that the ministry has in fact shown very great dissatisfaction with those who have proposed changes that have protested, which have expressed dissatisfaction. Again, I quote, the Government or the proposer writes that "all provisions that could make it difficult for drivers to work, to ease the operating conditions of Slovenian carriers and to minimise the conditions in the proposal." This is actually something unusual, because we are not used to always going to a minimum with regard to European directives, usually - yesterday was so - we are advocating maximum strict relativity. In the DeSUS Group, we support all the promotion of the economy, we support the creation of an entrepreneurship-friendly environment, including the reduction of administration. However, there is a certain fear that the law is written in some absence of an integrated, comprehensive, appropriate transport strategy and policy, not just roadside, so this is a somewhat distinct writing of the law, and that it has also been written slightly under the pressure of those who can strain the muscles, which they have proved several times in our reality. Some severity would not be too high due to road safety, environmental protection, the poor transport infrastructure we have, the congestion of roads and probably more. Transport, in particular road transport, is among those who are most burdensome in the environment, so strictness is also needed here. The minimisation may not be the best and I wonder on some occasion whether we will continue to tolerate the fact that carriers will not have adequate parking spaces, ecologically regulated parking lots, that many will park all the railways, one in the parking lots at the cemetery, the other in the greenery, the third in the domestic courtyards, and I do not know where else. It's true that the police can sanction it later, but that's not what we know he's doing. Yesterday, too, we found that she was not present enough in everyday life and that she would leave it to congregation officials who would not be able to do so. We therefore estimate that, although we will support the law, we support this with the knowledge that there are still major shortcomings in this area, in particular the absence of a comprehensive and meaningful transport policy, that some details are missing, which would regulate certain things in more detail, and something else, but support for the need to do so will not be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u11	Thank you. My colleague, Bojan Rugelj, will present the position of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Chairman. A nice welcome to all present, especially the representatives of the Ministry of Transport headed by Mr Verlic. The proposal for a road transport law provides for the regulation of public powers exercised by two public chambers in this area so far: the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. These are public powers relating to licences for the conduct of road transport activities and public powers relating to the distribution of licences. The proposal for a new law also took into account the fact that in the Republic of Slovenia there is a chronic shortage of qualified bus and truck drivers and therefore any provisions that could make it difficult to hire new drivers have been amended and supplemented. The next major objective of the law is to mitigate the operating conditions of Slovenian carriers and to reduce the severity of the conditions to the full level required by EU rules. In recent years, carriers have repeatedly seen the non-compliance of the current law with EU rules. The current proposal for the conditions for obtaining licences, the skills of drivers and the carrying out of international road passenger transport is still mitigating. The proposed law confers administrative tasks with regard to the issue of licences and the distribution of licences as a public authorisation to an organisation to be selected after a public invitation to tender and thus lays down the conditions for the award of public powers to be laid down by law, even though their more detailed arrangements are provided for by the Minister's regulation. The proposed law also lays down the selection criterion, among which the most important criterion is the minimum cost of issuing licences. The provisions on supervision and supervisory authorities and criminal sanctions have also been supplemented. These additions and amendments are intended to ensure effective control of foreign carriers and effective sanctioning in the event of infringements. The law also shows the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to eliminate unnecessary provisions, to reduce or reduce the conditions of employment of carriers to a minimum that is still permitted in EU regulations, and to ensure effective control and sanctioning of foreign carriers violating regulations in the Republic of Slovenia. This is under conditions of severe competition within the EU market as well as outside, certainly justified and legitimate requirements of our carriers. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group supports the coalition amendments to the proposed law and will also fully support the amended Road Transport Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Dr Marko Pavliha will present the views of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Honourable Secretary of State with a team, dear fellow Member and Members! In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we accept legal and substantive reasons for the adoption of the present law. It is a matter of setting out the unnecessary provisions that have so far been laid down by the European Union Regulations and, as we know, the Regulation applies directly and immediately, while introducing certain provisions that either specify the application of the Directives or ensure the implementation and sanctioning of certain regulations. The main substantive innovation, as we have already heard, is the reduction of the conditions for carrying out the transport activity to a minimum, to the minimum permitted by the European Union. And the government explains this with severe competition, which rules in the field of road transport, so allow me to say a few things about lowering such criteria. Each transport, each mode of transport and, of course, also road transport contains at least two aspects of interest to pursue, on the one hand, economic interest, freight transport, passengers, luggage, and, on the other hand, an even more important interest, namely public interest - environmental protection, road safety, infrastructure conservation and could also be listed. Surely the public interest has an advantage over the private, certainly public interest takes precedence over a handful of individuals, entrepreneurs, who are only concerned with their own pockets. We must by no means allow the Government or Parliament to transform sustainable development into a possible sustainable decomposition, and this concerns us in this place. We wonder if the government will continue to give in and reduce the conditions if, for example, similar protests are to occur as we have seen them recently. Protestants have made 19 demands, some are known to us and some are not, but we can immediately say that those who are known to us, except some who are removing or demanding the removal of administrative obstacles, are not acceptable and we appeal to the government to prevent such evictions. Neither alone nor colleague Presečnik nor the former transport ministers understood the rumor of blackmail, and I am sure that Mr Christmas and his colleagues will not understand it either. The fact is that Slovenian freight traffic is rising rapidly, let me just say two numbers to underpin this. 4700 employees in 2001 and 18 000 and more now, which means, of course, that we have a large room of manoeuvre to develop this activity, but of course not to the detriment of other interests, as we say. According to the information available to us at this time, there is a need for 2,000 drivers, at least after 2,000 drivers, but will we get them by opening the door to professionalism or incompetence, as it were? If I could make a little fool of myself, it would be about as if the problem of the lack of judges were solved by the establishment of some kind of legal warehouse in Kumrovec, where such a school would produce a handful of legal experts within a few months. That's not how it works. And the fact is that despite the increase in traffic, despite the increase in demand for road transport due to more expensive fuel, profitability for owners of motor vehicles is declining. And we believe that this is the main reason why carriers exert pressure on the government. As it is said, we will still support the law, but we will consistently oppose further reducing the conditions or criteria for carrying out the transport activity. Finally, allow us to express our support to the Ministry of Transport and also to the Minister of Transport with the team for the implementation of the Regulation on the Restriction of the Use of State Roads for the Transport of Freight Vehicles, whose maximum permissible mass exceeds 7.5 tonnes. At the same time, I express my expectation that the police will finally begin to monitor his respect consistently and to punish potential violators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u15	Thank you. My colleague, Janko Weber, will present the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u16	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we welcome the solution in the Proposal for a Law on Road Transport Transport, which will ease the operating conditions of carriers. While this is a minimum which is still allowed in the rules of the European Union. We believe that too often in Slovenia we write down more than the European Union prescribes a minimum, and we are trying to show, of course, how much more we are, whether economic or ecological and so on, as in the old countries of the European Union, but of course there are very great problems when it comes to proving ourselves on the market, in competitive conditions and, of course, we believe that these conditions need to be levelled with the other countries of the European Union and, of course, contribute to the promotion of possible economic development. We are less pleased with the solution envisaged by the proposer to grant the public authority to perform the administrative tasks performed so far by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. In the future, administrative tasks should be managed by an organisation selected by the Slovenian Directorate for Roads as a body within the Ministry on the basis of a call for proposals. It is therefore an indirect award of public authority, which is unusual, and we are somehow surprised that this proposal actually came about, because our national legislation does not provide for these solutions. However, we would also like to point out that the experience of the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce in carrying out these tasks must be taken into account in this regard, as I believe that the events that took place years ago at the Chamber of Commerce are a sufficient reminder that the exercise of licensing and supervision must indeed be carried out in the most transparent manner possible. We will therefore support the amendments of coalition groups in the Socialist Group of Members, which restore these powers in accordance with national legislation to the Ministry. The licensing supervision will be organised through a commission composed of representatives of the Ministry and transport operators. We believe that this could make licensing transparent. The law itself does not speak only of these licences and of these milder conditions; it also touches on the public line transport of passengers in road transport, which depends to a large extent on the timetable. And the process of determining the timetable itself is left to the direction. The law refers to the need for the Directorate to take into account the interests of students, students, transport of workers and also demographically threatened areas. For example, if the local community wants an additional bus line, it must also contribute funds. I do not think that this definition of driving order is sufficiently accurate and that it is not enough to produce criteria, when and to what extent to take into account the demographically threatened area as one of those very important criteria in Slovenia. In doing so, we run into the so-called subsidisation of bus carriers. We believe that this is not yet adequately resolved, so bus carriers are largely financed through school transport and subsidisation is minimal, and bus coaches are therefore disproportionately expensive, both at the price of fuel and at the price of tickets we can buy on Slovenian railways. So that if we really want to give more emphasis to public line transport and bring more passengers on buses and also to preserve demographically threatened areas, we should improve the system of subsidising public line transport, especially since this law also introduces a single ticket, improve the conditions in Slovenian railways; a single ticket should be coordinated both for bus and rail transport and it would be time to stop throwing money through the windows for Slovenian railways and to carry out this reorganisation and to really prepare everything necessary for the implementation of the Road Transport Act in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u17	Thank you. My colleague, Jožef Horvat, will present the position of the Nova Slovenija Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Dr. Verlich with the team, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group, we agree with the proposaler that with the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union, the individual provisions of the current Road Transport Act have become excessive or even unreasonable. Since Slovenia's full membership in the EU has also entered into force directly in our country, certain regulations of the European Union have become obsolete, so the Slovenian rules, which have been fully aligned with the EU acquis, have included many provisions that have been summarised or even copied from EU regulations. Since the legal order of the European Union prohibits the transposition of these regulations into the legislation of a Member State, it has been demonstrated that there is a need for amendments to the law or for a completely new law that would delete unnecessary provisions or articles. A special reason for the new law is also the introduction of a different assembly model in the economy, namely the introduction of private chambers with voluntary membership instead of the current Public Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia with compulsory membership. In our view, the proposal for a new law has also taken due account of the fact that in the Republic of Slovenia there is a shortage of qualified bus and freight drivers and therefore all provisions which could make it difficult to hire new drivers have been amended or supplemented. And how we see in the New Slovenia Group the most important and necessary changes made by the proposed law in relation to the currently in force Road Transport Act. The text of the new Bill on Road Transport is adapted to European legislation and the current law updates and simplifies. The provisions governed by the Regulation of the European Union are deleted in the Proposal for a Law on Road Transport since Slovenia has been subject to European regulations directly since 1 May 2004. It is particularly important for us to see the amendment introduced by the proposal for a law that reduces the strictness of the operating conditions of Slovenian carriers to the level required by European Union rules, for example, by reducing the number of conditions for obtaining a licence, the appropriate financial position, the appropriate professional competence and the ownership of a vehicle or the right to use a vehicle on the basis of rental or leasing. There are also logical changes in the administrative task relating to the issue of licences and the allocation of licences. The draft law brings some additions to the provisions on control and penalties and corrects the somewhat inconsistent delimitation of powers between supervisory and criminal authorities so far. Effective control and effective punishment of foreign carriers in the event of infringements of these rules is provided. I have drawn only a few good and urgent solutions, which are provided by the Road Transport Bill. The New Slovenia Group has also completed some of the proposals for legislation that will make some improvements when the law is adopted and that is why the New Slovenia Group will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u19	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 22.11.2006. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the four parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. I'm opening a debate. We've got one of the interviewers, my friend Lucky Friend, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u20	I would have one key point, namely this article, which is being amended by the system, as I said before. Once again, I would like to express strong criticism to the representative of the Government because he has not even responded to the coordination of this law before the meeting of his mother's working body. And look at what is written in this amendment: that the contractor may be appointed on the basis of Article 5 of this Law. Article 5 states that, as a public undertaking, an undertaking shall be authorised to issue licences for a period of 10 years. Do you know what that means? As the representative of the motorists said at the meeting of the mother's working body, this is the beginning of anarchy. I believe that the law is well-intentioned in all other articles and that it simplifies certain procedures. However, here you are going back to an anarchic state, and also from the president of the working body I would like to hear in the discussion below, regrettably, he did not say in the report when he spoke about the fact that we could get the law of the street, he was also warned by a representative of the motorists. The Ministry of Transport has prepared this law, in our view, very badly, and on our proposals, which have been given to effectively postpone this law into consideration for the next meeting, you have not agreed. We could take time, make quality preparations for this material, and discuss it in a more professional way. What you've done only proves your negligence. And as I said before, the government, if it accepts something, even if it is at a correspondence session - it has already accepted it. That's very bad. You can do this because you have a majority in the National Assembly. However, how this will prove to be a practice in everyday life four years from now, or two years from now, when the elections are again. You do great wrongs to individuals, and I also believe that the law has not been passed for a month, and you are also doing economic damage to the state in this way. And the basic evil is in this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u21	Thank you. Given that I can see that there's still a desire for a debate, I'm opening up a new application circuit. My colleague, Boyan Rugelj, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I would like to touch these amendments, which are somehow criticized, even though they came from the Chamber of Commerce, which is not someone on the street, but we know who and what the Chamber of Commerce represents. I think those amendments were correct from the Chamber of Commerce. Last but not least, this has been demonstrated on the committee itself, which it has taken as its committees with the support of most members of the committee. Now, if an individual thinks that that individual will decide whether something will be adopted or not, he is wrong, I have already said on the committee: democracy is, regrettably or in good faith, such that the majority of members decide, because a minority cannot make decisions, nor would it be logical unless someone so wishes. I think that the Committee has made the right decision, as well as most of these members on the Committee. I'm also a member of this committee, and I know what was going on there, and I just can't agree to such a different, half-truth or discredit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Gez Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In some ways, I would like to respond to or complement the debate of my colleague, Happy Friend, who points to the position of coordination of the United Nations car carriers. It is true that Mr Emil Milan Pintar drew attention to some of the issues relating mainly to Article 97 - the problem of public powers, the supervision of the implementation of licences, etc. - and the Committee has taken up its discussion in its report, which I have read in detail, at least in this part, but that the matter will be clear again: "The representative of the coordination of the United Nations Automobiles of Slovenia has pointed to the provisions of the draft law relating to the award of public authority, the supervision of the issue of licences, the price for the issue of licences and licences, the proposed amendment of the provisions of Article 7 of the law and the provision of Article 97 of the law." On the basis of the Rules of Procedure and powers of Vice-President as rapporteur on this Committee, I also do not have the authority to report more than in this report to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u25	Thank you. Member Happy Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's just this to a fellow Ruggle. The reference we accepted as the working body was well written, once again I repeat to my colleague if you have not read that amendments can be tabled on 2.11.2006. The government has put the winnings into the process, as evidenced by the numerous amendments that were, of course, tabled by the Chamber of Commerce. What did the Legal and Legal Service do? She has placed her reservation on all the amendments, on all 15, a respected colleague. You asked for a break, on this break you agreed with the Minister to take this as an amendment of your mother's working body, and you proposed such a victory without coordination and the possibility of impact of others, not only the Chamber of Commerce, but also the car carriers were invited to the meeting of your mother's working body, which you put into consideration. Today, by voting you will vote on a law that is, to say the least, a great victory. I have proposed that this law should not be dealt with at this meeting because of the non-salancing of the government. And it would be right if, for once, the Government could see that in the National Assembly, we are just an institution that adopts laws and is not just a voting body. And that's exactly what you have yourself for! We are already being insulted by individual ministers and you are actually with a reminder of the support of this Government, who thinks it can do what it wants. This is bad and tomorrow you will have "truckists" on the road and will again, I don't know, a general alarm in Slovenia. That's what's gonna happen. That's what's gonna happen, because of all the stupid things you do. In fact, the Ministry of Transport is not doing well in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u27	Thank you. Member Boyan Rugelj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I don't know, it looks like I have to say again that the amendments on the committee were presented and read. The pause was just to consult with the ministry and the ministry had nothing to do with these amendments because they were good amendments. And then, of course, the committee, most of the board members, took these amendments as amendments to the committee. It is time for such amendments to be proposed at a committee meeting. I don't know what's wrong here. Everything went well, and you said before that everything was legitimate and legitimate. Does one want to prevent the majority of the members of the committee from taking certain decisions he wants to take? If most people feel that way, I think it's right to take the majority's opinion into account, or to take the minority's opinion into account. I don't understand it very well anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u29	Thank you, too. The Secretary of State, Dr. Peter Verlich, will be involved in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I would like to speak to you about this amendment. I think that this amendment is good and that it does not introduce anarchy, but quite the contrary, that the powers are now clearly defined and that there is also control. As far as working with motorists is concerned, I think the Government has made a great deal of effort here, the Ministry of Transport is running an interdepartmental working group, which includes all the car carriers, all the associations, the dialogue is going on and, of course, things are not being resolved overnight, but patiently and slowly. I am sure that we will continue to do so, and we will be able to resolve all of this successfully. This is also: in coordinating the law, of course, all chambers have always been invited in the reception procedure and all associations of motorists and I am sure that we have a good law ahead of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss in connection with Article 3 and the amendment of the four groups of Members? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. I am also putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the four groups of Members, namely SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. I'm opening an application for discussion. Here you go. We don't have any applications, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 7 and the amendment of the same four groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the same four SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into a possible debate Article 13 of the same parliamentary groups, i.e. four SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Anybody want to discuss this? Not at all. And I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the same parliamentary groups. Does anyone want to discuss it in the context of Article 14? No, no, no. Then I also conclude the debate here. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 19th item of the agenda or no later than 21:00 and 10 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Traffic Safety Act. We have an estimated 45 minutes for this point. The draft law was submitted to the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, the Transport Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of Article 134, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposer of the law for further explanation of the bill. Member of the Council of State, Mr Mauchec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Well-known Vice-President, Members and Members and Government representatives! As has already been said, the State Council proposed a change of law at its meeting in spring in order to regulate traffic mainly in cities and give people with a B category to drive bicycles belonging to the A1 category. In particular, in its objectives, it is that passenger cars are least involved in urban transport and that motor vehicles are used, which are today so designed and so modernly equipped, that they have somehow become permanent in all major European cities, thereby allowing parking and, from an ecological point of view, much better because combustion and pollution are much smaller. The legislative and legal service did not oppose this law, and the representatives of the ministries also had a crucial aspect in this sense that the Government is preparing this and that it will prepare legislation in the autumn, which I now see has not actually happened. Even the obvious that this would somehow make road safety worse is simply not true. Because what we are proposing - in fact, children from 16 to 18 can drive today, and here we are targeting people who have a few years of driving license, who have experience, but of course are not satisfied with driving motor bikes that only reach 40, 45 kilometers per hour, because in this way today you are not flexible and safe enough in the city. Even if you go across our national border, to Italy, you just don't see those 50-cubic wheels anymore. Nor do the reports on traffic accidents and safety, since only one of the unfortunates in last year was older categories and those who could potentially be involved in traffic and then potential accidents. The other thing that is very bad - and saddens me that no one in their debates, even in their newspapers, has taken over, as well as the professional public no - is that today you can import as an individual motorcycle with 200 cubicles, make approval with us and then you can drive. At least they would call for them to move and prevent such acts now, because 95% of motorcycles are today because the matter is not regulated, in fact inadequate and are the result of accidents. Because this means that teens, 16 years old, under the legislation we now have, can drive motorcycles with 200 cubic metres per hour at speeds of 160 kilometers per hour. And I would ask you to read, because, above all, you cannot know everything because you have hundreds of problems and problems every day, but the government could try and the professional public understand the indicia and the desire to change this law, which is well-intentioned and serves only to increase security in cities, to relax parking spaces and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u33	Thank you. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, since it is not a proposer, has no say at this point. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SNS Group of Members will be presented by Mr Srečko Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! The aim of the applicant is undoubtedly positive, but perhaps the path is not the right one. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support this proposal in our conscience. Of course, I would point out that a proposal to amend such an important law as the Road Safety Act would require more global changes. Of course, it is not acceptable for Slovenian roads to die for one class of children annually and that we have very high mortality rates, and it is also unacceptable that in Slovenian legislation just before that law we allowed the introduction of more basic pressure for trucks and reduced penalties. This has undoubtedly also increased traffic on state roads, and this has in some ways increased mortality and accidents. I personally have been asking the Minister for a good time to act like many other laws in this European way and to get into the National Assembly into a procedure and adoption of a law that will be European-directed in terms of transport and transit of cargo through Slovenia. Of course, the unloading of state roads is also seen by the increased burden on motorways and, of course, the shift of freight to railways. This has not yet been done legally, as she has done, for example, Austria, and it is in this segment that we could significantly reduce road mortality, which is a key problem for Slovenia. And this objective should be pursued by the Government and the Transport Ministry. Otherwise, the Minister promises to prepare this legislation and that they will soon put it in the process. I hope that, in doing so, the example of Austria, which has this exemplary solution, and that we will in some way relieve state roads in the first place, of course the traffic regulation must also be directed in accordance with and in accordance with the Slovenian Railway Consensus and thus increase transport safety. This proposal, as has already been said, is positive on the part of the proposers, but the path is probably not the right one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u35	The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Yelen.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u36	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Member and Members, representatives of the Government and the Council of State. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act has been prepared and introduced into the legislative procedure by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The initiator shall propose an arrangement whereby the driving licence for category B, C, D and subcategories D1 would include a driving licence for motor vehicles of subcategories A1. In the DeSUS Group, although we welcome the purpose of the proponents of the proposed law on transport congestion, especially in the city centres, and the concern about maintaining a healthy living environment, we estimate that such a proposed provision would not follow this objective, so we will not support the proposed law. For we believe that the proposed changes would not mean decommissioning or reducing the use of motor vehicles of category B, as these drivers can already use motorcycles with engines after the current legislation. The adoption of this law would consequently mean that the holder of such a driving licence after two years would obtain category A with a restriction and at 21 years of age a category A licence without a restriction, and here we are talking about heavy engines. Thus, the proposed simplification of the acquisition of a driving licence without a driving licence and a medical examination is by no means in line with the efforts to improve and increase road safety, as all analyses show that motor bike drivers are one of the most endangered groups in road transport. In Slovenia, transport culture is already at a very low level, which is why DeSUS Members estimate that such automatic distribution of driving licences cannot be in any way in favour of the safety of road users. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware that the state of road safety in Slovenia is extremely worrying, and we also believe that the applicant has put forward a proposal for a law with good purpose, but we note that such content would in no way contribute to the achievement of the objectives. In view of the above, we will support the conclusion of the working body by DeSUS Members that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you. Comrade Bojan Rugelj will inform us of the position of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Once again a nice greeting to all present, including the representative of the State Council. As we know, the Council of State has proposed a amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Traffic Safety Act, which would allow for a greater spread of motor vehicles under category A1, which would have a direct impact on the decommissioning of traffic in urban centres and on traffic congestion. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we agree with the warnings of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the adoption of the proposed text of Article 1 of this Act, which provides that the category B driver's licence also includes a licence to drive vehicles of category G, H and A1, constitutes a violation of the applicable Directive on driving licences. The current Directive on driving licences in Annex 2 provides that candidates for driving licences must have certain categories of skills and demonstrate the knowledge necessary for driving the motor vehicle of that category. A candidate for a particular category of driving licence, including category A1, must carry out a theoretical test as well as a test of driving skills and skills. The Directive also provides that a candidate for a driving licence in one category conducting a theoretical test for a licence in another category may only carry out a specific part of the theoretical examination of the knowledge prescribed for a particular category. The automatic recognition of the right to drive a category A1 motorcycle with a category B driver’s licence is also totally unacceptable from a safety point of view, as the technique of driving and driving is significantly different from that of driving a passenger car or motor vehicle in category B. For these reasons, training for drivers of motor vehicles is also carried out in a different way than training for drivers of passenger vehicles. The adoption of such a bill would mean that someone who does not even know how to ride a bicycle could be taken on a speeding bike. I hope we are aware of what this means not only for him, but also for other participants in transport. The proposed amendment to the law does not imply a reduction in the use of category B motor vehicles, as stated by the applicant. It is important to know, however, that motor bike drivers are one of the more vulnerable groups of road users, as they are significantly less protected than drivers of cars, so we cannot agree that this would put young drivers who are still at risk for life. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are convinced, given these administrative and even more security reasons, that the proposal for the amendment of the Road Safety Act is not suitable for further consideration, so we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you. Member Aleš Gulič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u40	Dear colleagues, esteemed colleagues, distinguished guests! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we quickly responded to this proposal of the law, to a very incomplete text that has a kind of gap. And that is why we will not support and agree with the Committee's proposal that the law is inappropriate for further consideration. However, I will take this opportunity to say that one part of this law is certainly good, this is the intention to reduce the number of accidents in order to regulate the traffic situation in order to raise the safety and transport culture on our roads. These are certainly positive objectives and are to be taken into account in all amendments to the Road Safety Act, but not by giving some bonuses and, say, by populism we will say, ignoring the need for knowledge and skills. The bike is not a joke, if it has 125 cubic meters, 50 cubic meters or 1500 cubic meters. The skill is quite different, the danger is much greater and if you look at the risk of different categories of drivers, then you would see that motor bike drivers are among the most risky, only tractors are even more dangerous on the roads, but because of the frequency of the number they are not so high. This year's death harvest on Slovenian roads is even more helpful in not being able to solve problems. It would be much better to give here any other options, it is said for those drivers B, C, D categories that would like to acquire A1 themselves: But to take into account at least the theoretical part of them when tested and then to be educated on the road, it is said to carry out the driving necessary. Certainly, it would be good to introduce refresher courses every 10 years, with which we could then extend our driving licence, even though it will be a little harder to do so now because we are all written there by the 1980s. But you could do with these kind of actions. The proposal of this law is also somewhat contrary to what civil society organisations do. Maksi, who is preparing courses, for those who already have an exam because it is obvious that motorists themselves have found that this knowledge is too little and with great frequency attend these things, even the police are trying to do so. So we have two different paths. One that, of course, is more tiring because it requires knowledge, learning, the other that is quite easy to give to someone something. This is certainly a bad one, so in the Liberal Democracy we will not support or support the Transport Committee's decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you. My colleague, Janko Weber, will present the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, the amendments to the Road Safety Act will not be supported and, of course, we support the conclusion of the home labour body. We believe that the way to rescue is crowded in cities, to obtain a car driver at some time or after two years or, when he is even 21 years old, also a permit to drive a motor vehicle, is a somewhat inappropriate measure, since in fact no one can ensure that this will make someone more likely to go into the city and not to a rural area or some other longer route. Such simplification would certainly lead to a reduction in road safety and thus certainly lead to more road accidents. We see evidence of such thinking when we are able to monitor developments in the spring. At that time, experienced drivers who have driven cars in winter turn out to be motorbike drivers, but because of the winter period when they were not on a motorcycle, it turns out that this motorbike is significantly less manageable than at the end of the season. Therefore, we think it would be more appropriate to think about introducing at the beginning of each season, in the spring, additional training on the ranges, with additional hours of riding on a motorcycle, that the rider of the bike will regain a feeling which is extremely important when riding a motorcycle, so that he does not make a mistake which can be very rapid. Otherwise, we believe that the reduction of urban congestion needs to be addressed in a way that brings us back to the problem of subsidising public bus traffic. With higher subsidies, we reduce the price of the ticket and thus public passenger transport is much nicer for many who go to places to work or to schools. We would also add to this the problem already raised, that the rehabilitation of Slovenian railways should also be carried out as soon as possible and public passenger transport should also be established in Slovenian railways to the level that we deserve in Slovenia. In this way, urban crowds could certainly be successfully resolved if the funds we are giving to Slovenian railways today were used for bus transport subsidies and, last but not least, for the additional training of motor bike drivers. So, it is a source, it just needs to be redistributed and, above all, dedicated to road safety and thus reducing urban crowds. We therefore expect the Government to think more about these measures and thus reduce urban oppression on this occasion, even when it rejects this law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u43	Thank you. My colleague, Jožef Horvat, will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A nice greeting to all once again, especially to the guests at this meeting! In the New Slovenia Group, we certainly welcome the proposaler's sincere intention, this is the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to increase transport safety in order to raise transport culture or, more precisely, the driver culture. However, at the outset, I must say that the proposed solutions to the law, according to our firm conviction, do not bring this. Therefore, we are surprised that the National Council of Law has not already withdrawn from the procedure. The proposed amendment would, inter alia, constitute a breach of the applicable Directive on driving licences. The automatic recognition of the right to drive a subcategory A1 motorcycle into a driving licence under the provisions of Article 147 of the Road Safety Act would also mean that the holder of such a driving licence would automatically acquire category A after a period of two years, with the restriction of "motor bikes whose engine power does not exceed 25 kilowatts per mass, not exceeding 0,16 kilowatts per kilogram" and at the age of 21 years, already a category A driver’s licence without restriction, these are heavy engines. In view of the fact that motor bike drivers, which has already been mentioned several times today, are one of the most endangered groups of road users, as they are significantly less protected than drivers of passenger cars, in terms of road safety and in view of the horrific statistics on road accidents with fatalities on Slovenian roads, the New Slovenia Group rejects the proposed law or supports the proposal for a decision of the parent body. Of course, road safety remains a never-completed legislative task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will give the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors are here! As it is said, it is a law whose content is dealt with practically in one article and would make a very important change in this part of the legislation. The reasons for the adoption of this law are, of course, positive, but we also assess that only in such a simple, oversimplistic way can things not be resolved in the sense of European legislation. However, the debate in the Committee and in the presentation of the parliamentary groups has shown that some of the things in this process that make sense for us to take a closer look at them and that the Government, or the relevant Ministry, is thinking that some things in this area should be prepared or some changes should be made. I must say that although I must not politicise or appoint other opinions from other parliamentary groups here, I agree with the debate put by my colleague Gulič. I think it's his debate, too, I thought a few things from saying it, his debate is important to listen and take it into account when preparing any changes to this law. In doing so, we must not forget certain things that are incomplete or inconsistent in our practice. This is a matter of different controls in the current state of affairs, a problem of type-approval, as the applicant also referred to. The motor cycles on the road are many times different, especially stronger, significantly stronger than the actual type-approval. Here too is the problem of processing, the problem of deblocking and so on. I think these are issues worth listening to and dealing with as part of the amendments to the Road Safety Act. But as you can tell, of course you can't do that. This would also lead to side effects and, as a result, we will support the proposal of the national working body in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u47	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. POINT OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE WORKING TIME AND OBLIGATIONS OF MOBILE WORKERS AND OF WRITING EQUIPMENT IN ROAD TRANSPORT. We have 40 minutes at our disposal for this point. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Dr. Petr Verlic, to provide a supplementary explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u48	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to briefly explain the content of the proposed law. The proposed law amends and complements the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on Recording Equipment in Road Transport. This complements the system of control over the provisions of social legislation and interferes with the area of tachograph workshops and the area of issue of tachograph cards. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law will allow for the following. First time. It will be possible to carry out more effective controls on the driving and recording equipment of drivers, carriers or other legal or natural persons from third countries of the European Union and to punish them for violations of the law. Another time. The powers and powers to control relevant EU social legislation will be complemented in cases of serious infringements of those rules. These relate primarily to driving times, rest periods, rest periods and cases of unauthorised intervention in recording equipment and speed limitation devices. Third time. In tachograph workshops, a certificate of education for digital tachographs will be required from technicians, which must not be older than three years, while such a certificate for analogue tachographs may also be older. And the fourth time. Administrative fees shall not be paid for the issue of tachograph cards. Administrative fees are not included in the price of the card, as the price of the digital tachograph card fully covers the costs incurred by the public authority by exercising the scope of the public authority. However, the grantor does not obtain any funds for the implementation of this from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, so there is no reason to charge administrative fees. The transitional provision refers to the area of approval of tachograph workshops. For those who perform the tasks of the Tahogra workshop under the contract with the Office of metrology of the Republic of Slovenia, additional time will be allowed to obtain the accreditation document. This will enable the parties to be in the same position as they are in order to obtain the approval of workshops and thus to be united in this area. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you, too. In the framework of the legislative procedure, the draft law dealt with the Transport Committee as its parent working body. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Geza Jubana, to file a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Once again, a nice hello. At its 18th meeting, the Committee of the National Transport Assembly held a second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers, as well as on recording equipment in road transport, which was forwarded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the Legislative Procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with a proposal to deal with it following a reduced procedure. Minister of Transport Mag. Janez Bozič presented the main solutions to the draft law relating to the exercise of control over driving and recording equipment for drivers, carriers and other legal or natural persons from third countries as well as penalties for offences. We also heard the main solutions a little earlier from the government representative. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly made specific comments to Articles 1, 2, 4 and 5. In particular, it drew attention to the provisions of Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the draft law on the principle of certainty, one of the fundamental requirements, which is particularly pronounced in the field of criminal law, and requires that standards defining offences and prescribing sanctions should be clear and comprehensible. Criminal provisions must follow the material part of the law in which the addressees of the law must be clearly defined in their duties or prohibitions. From this point of view, the proposed text should be re-examined. In accordance with Articles 126 and 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport Committee held a debate and vote on and adopted the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled by the coalition parties to Articles 2, 4 and 5. The Transport Committee has not drafted its amendments to the bill. After the final vote on the amendments tabled in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law. May I also remind you that, taking into account the amendments adopted, the amended proposal under consideration is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u51	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Member Ivan Yelen has the floor to introduce us to the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u52	Again, thank you for your word. In the DeSUS Group, we support the bill. By amending the basic law, it will be possible to control the driving and recording equipment of drivers, carriers or other legal or natural persons from third countries as well as to punish those persons for violations of the law. In this way, all persons located in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia will not only be persons subject to current legislation, mobile workers employed in companies established in a Member State, current legislation, mobile workers employed in undertakings established in the Member States of the European Union, when engaged in road transport activities, be in the same position before the law, which is consistent with the principle of equality before the law and the principle of non-discrimination. A certificate of education for digital tachographs, which may not be older than three years, will be required from technicians in the workshop. This type of certificate of education for analogue tachographs may be older than three years. We estimate that this is in line with the process of introducing digital tachographs, as the latter undermine analogs that will only be used until their lifetime. With the introduction of digital tachographs in May 2006, manufacturers also discontinued the production of analogue as well as the professional training of analogue tachograph technicians. In our Group of Members, we estimate that there is no reason for this to be constantly addressed and that a certificate of continuing education is required. The proposal will also remove the dilemma with regard to the exercise of the public authority to issue the necessary digital tachograph cards concerning the price of cards, so that no administrative fees will be included in the price of the card. The grantor shall not receive any funds from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and the law shall fully regulate the payment of the implementation of the cards by fully covering the costs of the digital tachograph card. The competent and powers of the supervisory authorities shall be supplemented by the proposal, which requires the regulations laid down in the Directive of the European Community, in particular in the case of the worst infringements, the excess of driving time, the irregular operation of the device, unauthorised interference in recording equipment and speed limitation devices. Members of the DeSUS agree with the amendment in which all customers and also workshops will be in the same position to obtain the approval of workshops. Since that proposal follows the principles of equality before the law and adequately regulates the subject under consideration, we will also support it in the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you. My colleague, Bojan Rugelj, will present the position of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u54	Thank you very much. For the third time today, a nice greeting to all present! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport brings quite a few novelties. With digital tachographs, the EU intends to replace conventional analogue tachographs in the coming years. The introduction of digital tachographs in addition to more modern recording equipment also brings news, the introduction of tachograph cards, from driving cards to tachograph cards for business, workshops and supervisory authorities. These cards are intended to identify the persons or institutions involved in this process and to record data and controls. Digital tachographs were successfully introduced in the Republic of Slovenia within the time limit prescribed by the new EC Regulation. 561/2006, as from 1 May 2006. This Regulation shall enter into force on 11 April 2007, with the exception of certain Articles, including the Article from which the digital tachographs are to be introduced on 1 May of this year. Since the entry into force of the said national law, certain shortcomings have been identified with regard to the law, which are addressed by the amendments defined in this amendment of the law. The purpose of this Act is to extend the application of the law so that it is possible to control and punish drivers, carriers or other legal or natural persons from third countries as well as for offences. Following the current directive, this law may apply to mobile workers employed in undertakings established in a Member State of the European Community when carrying out road transport activities covered by Regulation 3820/85/EEC and Regulation 3821/85/EEC or the AETR Agreement. Accordingly, appropriate legislation is proposed. The purpose of the law is to enable the work of technicians in the analog tachograph workshop also through the transmission of a certificate of education that is older than three years of age, since there is no reason for analogue tachographs to be constantly renewed in this area and therefore require permanent education certificates. The purpose of the law is to clarify the dilemma with regard to the inclusion of administrative fees in the price of the card, namely that no administrative fees are paid in full when issuing the cards. In the light of the EU regulations in this area, appropriate procedures of the supervisory authorities shall be laid down and appropriate powers shall be conferred, in particular for cases of unauthorised intervention in the recording equipment and the speed limitation device. Surveillance is in line with EU rules. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on the Registration Scheme in Road Transport fully supports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u55	Thank you. My colleague, Janko Weber, will present the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u56	Thanks again for saying that. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport is essentially governed by one small segment in this work, driving control and recording of drivers and carriers. It is not surprising, however, that we are confronted with the changes and additions to this law, for we have already warned of an under-cleaned and finalized solution when adopting the bill. So today we have a new proposal for a law on changes and additions that solves these inadequacies. While these are some minor interventions, and if we are trying to find them in this law, they actually refer to the work of technicians in the analog tachograph workshop, where it is found that there is no longer a need for continuous education in this technique. In addition, workshops that are already carrying out tachograph procedures and tasks are allowed additional time to bring their activities into line with the law and to obtain an accreditation document. All of this has been known much earlier and should somehow take into account the situation in Slovenia in this area and already provide for appropriate procedures for the introduction of this European regulation in the basic law. In addition to workshops in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, carriers may also perform this service in the other Member States of the European Union. It should certainly be the interest of Slovenia that carriers provide this service to the greatest extent or even to the greatest extent, if not fully, in our workshops. Given that this law will likely allow for this implementation to a greater extent in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, we will, of course, support these changes. However, we expect that an additional analysis of the whole law will really be made and that everything that needs to be improved in this law will be improved, because I think there are still some solutions in the existing law that cannot be implemented in practice exactly consistently. It would probably be more appropriate to have all these solutions on the table today, but obviously the proposaler has not yet carried out all the analyses of the existing law and this will probably only follow in the future and we will also have several more laws on the agenda. However, despite what I have said, we support these changes and we also want to improve the conditions in our workshops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u57	Thank you. Comrade Jožef Horvat will give you the position of New Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. It's the third time everyone's been greeted! In the European Community, mandatory recording of drivers’ activities was introduced in 1969. The recording was done by the driver himself at the time, and he had to record his daily activities in a notebook, in a rather primitive way for today’s time, but the driver’s vital activity. The purpose of the law we have on the benches is to extend the application of the law so that it is possible to control and punish drivers, carriers or other legal or natural persons from third countries as well as for offences committed. The law currently in force can only apply to mobile workers employed in undertakings established in a Member State of the European Community when carrying out road transport activities. According to the New Slovenia Group, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on Recording Equipment in Road Transport are complemented by the law in force. It complements the system of control over the provisions of social legislation and interferes with the area of tachograph workshops and the scope of the implementation of tachograph cards. Allow me, first of all, a few important additions to this law. The purpose of the amendment to Article 17 of the Act is to enable the work of technicians in the analog tachograph workshop also through the possession of educational certificates older than three years of age, since there is no reason for analog tachographs to be constantly renewed in this area and therefore require permanent education certificates. The purpose of supplementing Article 30 of the Law is to clarify the dilemma regarding the inclusion of administrative fees in the price of the card. In particular, no administrative fee shall be paid in full for the issue of the cards. It is important to supplement Article 32 of the Law, in accordance with the provisions of the Regulations and the Directive, to prescribe the relevant procedures of the supervisory authorities and to grant appropriate powers, in particular for cases of unauthorised intervention in the recording equipment and the speed limitation device. With regard to workshops, the purpose of the law is to allow workshops already carrying out tachograph procedures and tasks to bring their activities into line with the law and to obtain accreditation documents during a period which takes into account the currently scheduled dynamics of obtaining that instrument by the Slovenian accreditation resulting from the increase in the number of accreditation applications, the limitation of staff resources and the requirements of the accreditation process. At the time of the adoption of the law, there were in practice three statutes of the workshops with regard to their approval: workshops with the applicable provision of the Minister responsible for metrology, independent entrepreneurs and individuals with the applicable accreditation document and workshops with the contract with the Office of Metrology. The purpose of the law is to ensure that all workshops are subject to the same system of approval. In the past, there have been tachograph workshops with different approval statuses. The amendment to Article 43 of the Law will achieve a uniformity of status in this area, which we believe is a special and necessary novelty of this law. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposed amendment of the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on the recording of equipment in road transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Jakob Presečnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Hello, everyone! It is, as has already been said, a minor amendment to the law which discusses the conditions of operation of workshops that discuss the possibility of controlling the driving and recording equipment of third-country carriers, not only from European Union countries, and some other minor changes, which is why we will support the proposed legislative changes in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u61	Thank you. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the law. The vote on the law will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, within a half-hour period following the end of the 19th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal for a law on the amendments to the Act on the provision of social security to Slovenian citizens who are entitled to the death penalty from the Republic of the former FRY. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! With this proposal, the government follows the principled position of the Republic of Slovenia, that Slovenian citizens should not be deprived of their already acquired and expected rights under the social security system because of the independence of Slovenia. This was explicitly set for the fighters of the NOB and the military pensioners. However, the biggest differences have proved to be in pensions. After the collapse of the former common country, our pensioners are better off than pensioners in other Republics. Despite some mistakes and setbacks, the standards of Slovenian pensioners in the past 16 years have been followed by wage increases, they have retained all the social security rights and allowances that went beyond pensions in the previous period, and they have been granted some new ones. At the same time, the standard of pensioners of other Republics of the former SFRJ has deteriorated significantly. This has also been the result of a general decline in living standards, as well as a relative backlog of pension entitlements for salaries and a reduction in pension and disability benefits. In most cases, social security allowances have been abolished, which go alongside pensions. These are: allowance for assistance and service, allowance for recreation, invalidity and other disability benefits and so on. This raised the issue of Slovenian citizens living in the country, but they earned pensions in other parts of the former SFRJ, from which they now receive their pensions. The backlog of their pensions due to the poorer valorisation in force in other Republics has been compensated by a supplement under the Act on Social Security for Slovenian citizens entitled to a pension from the former SFRJ Republic. This did not solve the issue of additional rights granted to pensioners under Slovenian rules, but not by the rules applicable in other countries in the former SFRJ area. These rights are, according to their content, a right from the general social security system and are also financed from the state budget, not from contributions from insurers. Therefore, the Government proposes that Slovenian citizens residing in Slovenia who receive pensions from insurance holders in other countries in the former SFRJ area, in addition to the addition to a pension from abroad, be granted the right to a one-year supplement and to an allowance for assistance and service in amounts such as if they had earned a pension and applied to a Slovenian insurance company. One annual allowance in Slovenia has become the nature of social adjustment, although it has evolved from the former annual holiday regression. This year, pensioners with pensions of up to 87.669 tolar received 81.760 tolars of a one-year supplement and those with higher pensions of 49.675 tolars. The allowance for assistance and service is granted to a pensioner who, due to age or illness, cannot take care of himself, is intended to pay the part of the costs incurred by the beneficiary because of the permanent changes in the health condition in order to meet the basic needs of life as a matter of urgency and constantly needs foreign care and assistance. Eligibility shall be established by the disability commission on the basis of the pension requirement. The supplement shall be determined according to the needs, i.e. for the most severely affected 61,368 tolars per month, for those who may carry out basic life needs on their own and 30,648 tolars for those most severely affected by permanent supervision, PA 87,669 tolars per month. Ladies and gentlemen, we propose that you support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u63	Thank you. The draft law was examined by the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Stanislav Brenčič, to present the report. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I welcome you, my fellow Members, and I also welcome the representatives of the candidates or the Government! The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the bill in question at its 20th regular meeting on 7.1.2006 as the working body of the mother. In doing so, let me point out that the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons has been working for a long time to ensure that citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who receive pensions from the countries of the former republics of the SFRJ have heard and found solutions at least to the most acute issues, and this is to a considerable extent the proposal of this law, which has now been addressed. In accordance with its mission, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has examined the draft law both in terms of compliance with the Constitution and in terms of the legislative and technical question and submitted a comment only to Article 1. In its opinion, the Commission of the State Council for Social Activities supported the bill. An amendment to the draft law was tabled to Article 2 by the Social Democrats Group, which was not adopted by the Committee. The Committee has drafted its amendment to Article 1 and has thus eliminated or would like to say that it has adopted a concrete comment from the legislative and legal opinion, which is an integral part of the amended proposal of the law. And that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u65	Thank you. Since the meeting held its first reading of the bill at its 20th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the assembly will vote on the law on Tuesday 28 November 2006 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Eliminating the Consequences of the asbestos Act. I'd like to inform you that we have four hours and 25 minutes. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed magi. France Gnyardsich. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers for further explanation. Mr. Clavor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u66	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Honourable Director! At the last reading of the Law on the Harmful Consequences of asbestos in our National Assembly, we have mentioned in the DeSUS Group that we will continue to do so, as we have also informed the President of the Government. We also informed him that we were going to introduce a new amendment to the law. That's what we've come to. The signatories submitted this Law on Rights Affected by the Harmful Consequences of asbestos in order to eliminate discrimination against all those who were not involved in the work or production where asbestos was used, but were nevertheless exposed to it in the environment. It is known and demonstrated that exposure to asbestos can also affect others due to direct exposure. In particular, it should be pointed out that from the point of view of the patient, it is completely irrelevant whether he worked with asbestos or came into contact and was accidentally exposed to harmful effects; he could have come into contact; he could have lived near where it worked with asbestos or lived in an environment contaminated with asbestos. We tabled a proposal to amend and supplement the existing law by including those who did not work professionally with asbestos, but lived and lived in a direct environment contaminated with asbestos. Although he offered the same rights as the citizens who worked with asbestos for a long time. Until the second reading of the law on the committee, it appeared that the surrounding area was a stretching concept that would allow for free interpretation without a defined limit and create difficulties in achieving it. Some comments were also made by the Institute of Medicine, Labour, Transport and Sports. In so doing, when we prepared this law, we invited all interested parties to cooperate. The Institute for Labour, Transport and Sports has only attended this once. The law, as tabled, was also opposed by the Government, mainly due to possible financial consequences. In particular, I should like to express my disappointment at the coalition partners who have not supported the law in this area of rights for patients outside the factories, although this bill has also been signed by two members of the coalition parties. Since there was an opportunity for such a ready law to fall, we agreed to postpone the hearing on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and, in the meantime, to consult, as I have already said, with the representatives of the Institute and the Ministry of Labour. I can tell, but not for this period, but for the period since 1996, that everything has been insufficient political will to achieve any better solution and also that the solution we have offered has not been adopted and gives the right to compensation only to patients with mesothelioma and nothing more. In these circumstances, however, we have accepted this solution rather than none. Finally, let me express my expectations in two directions. First of all, the Ministry of Environment and Space, together with the two ministries of the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health, will prepare a system-wide law to deal with the consequences of adverse impacts as soon as possible. And secondly, that the asbestos law will experience additions that will be more just than anything we have adopted so far. As far as we know in our legal order, the right to compensation is due to the adverse impact of the environment on affected citizens, if the law is adopted, but the first such solution. All other developments relate only to professionally exposed citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u67	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory presentation of the opinion. I'm sorry, colleague Brenčič, we're not in the government yet. I give my word to the government's representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At its meeting on 14.9.2006, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted an opinion on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work. The Government’s opinion was negative as the circle of beneficiaries and rights were not clearly defined. However, the Government has allowed the possibility of agreeing with the proposal if it is modified so that the law can be clearly implemented. On the basis of the opinion of the Government and the decision of the Committee of the National Labour, Family and Social Affairs to postpone the discussion and decision on the draft law to one of the following meetings, the Committee proposed that the proposer and the Government agree and prepare amendments to the draft law, it was agreed that the proposal would be corrected in such a way that the compensation could be applied to persons who had become sick of mesothelioma and did not work with asbestos if it was proven that they had permanent residence in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and that they also reside here. The novelist and the Government drafted the amendments by agreeing with them and also supported by the members of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons at its meeting on 7.11.2006. Since the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to address the consequences of working with asbestos is clear and ready in agreement with the Government, the Government is now proposing the proposed enlargement of the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Working with asbestos.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you. I now invite Member Stanislav Brenčič, President of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, to submit a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u70	Mr Vice President, thank you very much, again, for your word. The Committee of the National Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Disabled Persons first considered the law in question at its 18th regular session on 12.9.2006 and then at its 20th regular session on 7.11.2006. At its 18th regular session, the Committee adopted a procedural decision at the time, taking into account the reasoned comments made by the professional public and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for a law on the proposal of the President, which was only reasonable at that time, by which it translated the relevant law into a transitional meeting. In addition, it took the view that, on the basis of the substantial comments made on the individual parts of the draft law, which are based on the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the expert opinion of the clinical institute for medicine, transport and sport, the Committee would prepare appropriate amendments to the proposal for further consideration of the draft law. This also happened at the 20th regular session. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Services, which examined the draft law and submitted a concrete comment on Article 6. The Committee also received comments from the Association of Asbestos Patients of Slovenia, comments from the Economic Chamber, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for a law, comments from the Ljubljana Clinic Centre, comments from the Ministry of Economy and comments from the Association for Asbestos. Specific amendments were submitted to the committee by the Liberal Democracy Club, the Social Democrats' Group of Members, and by Ambassador Vila Rezman. The broad debate on the Committee took place at the time of Article 1 of the proposed law on amendments tabled in particular in the sense that rights under this law should also be justified by persons who actually lived in an environment in which asbestos exposure also affected them, and by persons who carried out certain activities in the area of business premises of companies that processed or stored asbestos. The legal heirs of the deceased, whose death is due to asbestos exposure, would also be entitled to compensation. The amendment also proposed the need to establish and maintain a register of persons exposed to asbestos but was not accepted by the Committee. The debaters disagreed with the proposal for an amendment to the Committee, which further strengthens the proposed rights in the bill, since the rights for the surrounding population are limited to patients with mesothelioma. The representative of the Government explained that the heirs already receive compensation under the current Act for the deceased asbestos patients if they have submitted an application for compensation. The proposal to establish a register was not agreed by the Government's representative because he felt that such an examination would allow the current records, while at the same time it could be the stigmatisation of patients. Representatives of the surrounding population and representatives of the Association of Asbestos Trade Unions also participated. Furthermore, an extensive discussion was held at the time of Article 4 of the draft law and the amendments tabled, where some discussers advocated the right to early retirement under more favourable conditions. In their view, the amendment further strengthens this right. However, they did not agree with the amendment, which deletes this provision. At the end of the discussion, a proposal for an amendment was also proposed to the 11th Article by the parliamentary club or group of Social Democrats. After a brief discussion and after recess for consultation, the members and members of the Committee unanimously adopted the amendments tabled. The Committee also adopted a number of its amendments, while rejecting the amendments of the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament and of the Group of Social Democrats and Ambassador William Rezman. All that has been adopted is an integral part of the amended proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I also warmly welcome visitors and visitors to the Tribunal. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Pozsoncheva has the floor on behalf of the National Community.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you. Nice greetings to all present. Allow me one personal comment first. I am very pleased that this change has taken place, and I also tell you that when we adopted the previous law, the one with the restrictions, I did not expect this to happen. I'm glad that law will be changed. On the basis of changes and additions to the law, they were to be affected, asbestos disease did not differ from where they suffered for it. The existing law is limited to persons who have been employed in companies that have processed or stored asbestos or asbestos products and in jobs where they have been exposed to asbestos. The application of the provisions of the current law is therefore extended to persons living in an environment where they have become ill due to exposure to asbestos. In 2000, the Interdepartmental Government Working Group stated in its guidelines for the creation of a new asbestos law that beneficiaries of compensation in addition to employees or former employees in the manufacturing process or service services who came directly into contact with asbestos dust, including residents due to environmental exposure to asbestos, with a diagnosis of asbestos disease to mesothelioma. The draft law introduces a register of persons exposed to asbestos to be the basis for carrying out preventive diagnostics in persons exposed to asbestos. However, it will be imperative to extend the range of beneficiaries affected by environmental diseases within the framework of a comprehensive system for providing state aid to people affected by health-related pollution, the impact of industry or other environmental problems resulting from cancers and other diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u73	Thank you, too. The next word is Mr Ljubeljšek, on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u74	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A respected council, a respected representative of the government! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support the proposed amendment of the law, which represents an additional step towards addressing the asbestos problem in the context of the foreseeable and assessed needs and requirements of the injured and also of budgetary capacity. This amendment gives the possibility to enforce rights because of the harmful effect of asbestos on human health also to persons who have been exposed to asbestos. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we have always supported the resolution of the burning asbestos problem and have also actively participated in the creation of a basic, basic law that replaced and upgraded the narrow first asbestos law, adopted in 1996, which only partially solved the very complex asbestos problem and the consequences of working with asbestos. In our Group of Members, we agree with the amendment of the law that extending the range of beneficiaries to exercise the rights of employees in companies that have become sick due to asbestos exposure to beneficiaries due to the environmental exposure of asbestos is a difficult and complex professional issue. There were many thoughts and solutions in the parliamentary group about how to include the population in the basic law. We have already discussed this in the National Assembly and in the home labour body when the basic law was adopted, but the solution could not be based on professional grounds, with concrete criteria on the distance from the centre of asbestos production, nor did it really assess the potential number of patients with asbestos diseases in the coming years and decades. The question was therefore raised as to how to establish an area to be sufficiently professionally justified and, above all, fair and fair to all the inhabitants. What, for example, would happen to those who would remain within the boundaries of a particular area, whether or not they would suffer from asbestos disease? So it is in itself a solution to extend the area to the entire territory of Slovenia. The proposed amendment to the law, which is also a member of our parliamentary group, solves this dilemma by allowing rights under the basic law of permanent residents in Slovenia who have become sick of mesothelioma due to asbestos exposure in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, while the interdisciplinary group will find a causal link between asbestos exposure and mesothelioma. The proposal is limited only to patients with mesothelioma, which is the most difficult form of asbestos disease, but not to others, easier forms of asbestos disease. As a result, in our parliamentary group, we are once again faced with a dilemma of fairness to all potentially ill people for the most serious and easier forms of asbestos diseases on the one hand, and the unpredictability of the number of patients and thus the financial consequences on the other, especially to all those who are sick or potentially ill because of exposure to various other forms of the polluted and poisoned environment. For the sake of all this, we agree that the proposed amendment to the law is a compromise within the framework of the possibility that a transitional solution is acceptable, but that it is necessary to think and act towards the preparation of a system-wide law on the elimination of the consequences of an polluted and contaminated environment that endangers human health and life, including asbestos products. Our Group of Members will continue to support any initiatives and solutions in this direction constructively and responsibly, but will not support cheap populist debates and proposals that are neither professional nor realistic nor even less fair and fairer for all affected by the polluted and poisoned environment. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will definitely support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u75	Thank you. Also in my name a nice greeting to interested visitors. Welcome to the National Assembly. And we are continuing the debate. Member Ljubo Germič has the floor in terms of the presentation of the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! In this mandate, the National Assembly is considering and adopting a fourth law regulating the legal framework for dealing with the consequences that have been caused to people for decades by the long production of all types of asbestos products. However, the President of the National Assembly did not allow the opening of the legislative procedure in the fifth proposal that we have drawn up at the LDS House of Members. Since we have regulated this area for less than two years for the fifth time, the views of the Government, political parties and victims and their associations are more or less well known. Nevertheless, I would like to stress once again the position of the Liberal Democracy that the new Act on the Elimination of the Implications of Working with asbestos does not guarantee equal rights for all people who have been or will be affected by exposure to the harmful effects of asbestos dust. The affected people are divided into those exposed to asbestos dust inside factory fences and those exposed to asbestos dust outside these factory fences, regardless of the consequences of the same asbestos dust. Therefore, in the legislative process, we have already tried to enforce the principle that asbestos is not affected and that the rights already acquired by the 1996 law should not be reduced. The ruling coalition rejected all the proposed amendments, nor did it listen to the State Council's arguments. This request for a re-decision on the law was based primarily on the fact that the law did not take into account the compensation for damage to the health of the population who were exposed to asbestos dust in the area of the business premises of companies where asbestos or asbestos products were processed or stored; that the law did not provide the sick with sufficient social security and even infringes their rights; that it made a difference between the patients who were sick for the same reason and that the law did not guarantee the right to compensation to the heirs of the deceased. In the LDS, we are aware of all these tragic consequences of the mass production of asbestos products after the enforcement of the current law, which has already established the principles already mentioned, that asbestos is not separated and that the rights already acquired are preserved. However, the President of the National Assembly, as I have already mentioned, did not allow the opening of a legislative procedure, arguing that there are no funds available for the implementation of the law in the 2006 and 2007 state budget, whereas the funds of the general budgetary reservation cannot be considered as a real source of funding. Of course, it is perfectly clear that the Government and the ruling coalition are trying to prevent any attempt to regulate this area and thereby definitively determine the status and rights of all asbestos victims. This, last but not least, proves the rejection of the 2007 budget amendment, which provided the necessary means for the implementation of the law to the extent defined by the amendments to be decided on below. In the LDS, we regret that, despite the tragic fates of the people for the government coalition, only the proposals for sub-legislative proposals are becoming a prestigious issue. Nevertheless, we welcomed the intention of one of the coalition parties, which should even have the support of the Prime Minister of the Government to prepare his proposal for a law to remedy the injustices that he had enforced this year's March passed the law. The introduction of the bill was understood as a reflection of bad conscience in the coalition and as a real wish of the ruling coalition to amend the current law. However, we were disappointed with the content because it does not completely eliminate the separation of asbestos victims and does not restore all the rights they have already suffered. Unfortunately, something soon also proved that the proposed solutions have not been aligned with the organizations of asbestos patients. Gradually, however, it was revealed that the ruling coalition with the bill merely wanted to create the impression that it was correcting the law in the direction of the justified requirements of asbestos patients. First of all, she put forward a proposal for a law to the competent working body of the National Assembly, stating that the time before the local elections was not appropriate to deal with such a law, then after the amendment of the coalition MP and later with the government amendment, the majority of the proposed legislation had failed. The amended bill thus partially regulates this moment only and only cases where citizens and citizens are or will be sick of mesothelioma. Unfortunately, in this case, for example, people affected by asbestos see again how far the concrete actions of the ruling coalition are from its own declaration positions and promises. This time, too, in the LDS Club, together with the Socialist Group of Members, we have prepared appropriate amendments to try once again to eliminate the separation of asbestos victims and to reassert the rights that beneficiaries have received through the 1996 law. Colleagues and colleagues, we ask you again with a request and a proposal to support the amendments [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Your conduct so far shows little hope, but since the hope of the last one dies, we will decide on the support of the law once we see your attitude and attitude towards the amendments that we have presented together with the Social Democrats. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u77	Thank you, too. Mr Bevk alone will present the views of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! When we passed a government law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work in March, we were all dissatisfied in the National Assembly. We were dissatisfied with the fact that the majority in the National Assembly did not accept our amendments or amendments to the opposition in order to change the concept of law and include the environmental aspect of asbestos exposure. This would also give the right under this law to residents from the area of production facilities who, due to exposure to asbestos dust, have become sick of one of the asbestos diseases. That some members of the coalition were also dissatisfied, it was immediately clear that they had announced an amendment to the law before it was published in the Official Journal. The changes were supposed to go exactly the way we stood up for in the opposition, but the coalition rejected them smoothly, but with some bad conscience and with the previous discipline of the government summit itself. In May, a group of members of the coalition, with the first-signed France Žnidaršič, only tabled the amendment of the law. The law struck the first obstacle before it was published and accessible to other Members. Because the President of the National Assembly rejected him twice for non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure. From June to September, the new law waited for the government’s opinion, which was essentially negative. If the coalition had the political will to adopt this law, the Government should propose appropriate solutions and concrete amendments. Nothing like that ever happened. However, we witnessed the incredible exercise and the acrobatic contributions of the coalition, as it was only at the third meeting that the parent committee was able to hold a substantive debate on the law. And what did the committee's substantive debate bring? She brought in a marriage that's not worth that name. The coalition MPs, the assistants of the competent ministry and the government, have so maimed their own law that there is virtually nothing left of it. Not only have the amendments of the Social and Liberal Democrats not only been adopted, but they have narrowed the entire content down only to equalising the rights of patients with mesothelioma, regardless of whether they have become ill at work or because of environmental impacts. The environmental aspect of asbestos diseases has therefore only spread to the worst and most incurable disease, mesothelioma. Nevertheless, we did not give up in the opposition. For the second reading, the Liberal and Social Democrats have re- tabled amendments that bring back face and content to this law. We appeal to the Members and Members of the Coalition to support us, because there is no excuse to share the asbestos exposure to those who have become sick due to exposure at work and to those who have lived in the vicinity of the asbestos production plants. Ten years after the first asbestos law was adopted, the state and some employers still do not take the issue seriously enough. Only to approach the problem of occupational diseases in general, we do not systematically register these diseases. However, in order to fully address at least the environmental aspect of asbestos exposure and to equalize the disease at work and the disease around the factory, there is already science fiction for this government. If it turns out otherwise in voting on our amendments, then I will make a public apology. With regard to the support of the law, we will decide after the final vote on the amendments proposed by the Social and Liberal Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u79	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Franz Capuder. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Working with asbestos, which was definitively confirmed in the National Assembly in March this year, regulates the identification of occupational and other diseases and the reduction of life functions due to exposure to asbestos dust, the recognition of lump sum compensation for diseases and the provision of the right to a pension under favourable conditions. Thus, beneficiaries under this law were those who were or are still employed in companies that have processed, used, stored, implanted or removed asbestos or asbestos products, but in such places where they were exposed to asbestos and were sick. So then, with the solutions in this law, we extended the range of beneficiaries according to the old Act banning the production and transport of asbestos products. And that is why the law now in force is good and significantly better than the previous one. Above all, this law is completely comparable to similar European laws. I would also point out that the 1996 Act on the Prohibition of the Production and Transport of Asbestos provided for only employees in establishments and the rights under this old law had not yet been granted to any person who had not been employed in production establishments, so neither did the surrounding population. And to say that now the law in force is more unfair to those who lived outside the scope of production than the 1996 law is purely misleading to the Slovenian public. In some countries of the European Union, asbestos workers do not receive compensation at all in the UK, France, the Netherlands, Germany. In Slovenia, therefore, we have taken a major step forward in protecting the rights of workers who have come into contact with asbestos in their workplace and have become sick as a result. Slovenia is therefore one of the few countries that allows the right to compensation for the facilitation of asbestos diseases. On the other hand, when we passed the law in the New Slovenia Group, we were aware that this law did not solve the problem, especially those who had the most serious forms of asbestos disease in the environment, especially in the area of large production plants, because they lived there but were not employed in these establishments. For this reason, also, a member of our parliamentary group was one of the co-signors of the amendment of the law, which allows the payment of compensation under this law to all those who have become sick of the most serious form of disease, mesothelioma, whether he has been in contact with asbestos or not. The extension of other rights to the whole of Slovenia and the solution in the manner provided for in the basic and adopted law would probably represent financial unforeseeable effects. In Nova Slovenija we are convinced that because of the impact of the environment it is necessary to solve the disease in a different way and in full. It is also true that the State is already providing social and health care to all those who are sick because of the disease caused by the environmental impact. The environment is being polluted by everyone and the pollution of the environment is a consequence of our civilization. This is the tax that we now pay to live for the sins of the environment of our ancestors. In New Slovenia, we will support changes in the law as they go in the right direction and are a step forward. However, we do not support the amendments tabled by the LDS Club and the SD Group of Members, as they result in unpredictable effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work also introduces applicants into the law, at least in part, the removal of the consequences of exposure to asbestos dust and environmental fibre on the grounds that the patients themselves are not to blame for this exposure and that they have not been able to influence the prevention of their exposure and thus the threat that we see the Slovenian People's Party's Group as an irrefutable fact. Please stop talking to others for a moment, because I can't hear myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u83	I'm sorry, my mistake. I ask all Members present to allow my colleague Brenčič to present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u84	In this context, we also support the recognition of compensation to the "environmental residents exposed to asbestos who have suffered or suffered health problems on this basis, but the solution to this issue through this amendment is incompatible with the nature or purpose of the existing law as the first case of a law dealing with issues related to occupational disease. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have always advocated and supported the basic concept of the existing law, but we have also advocated that the consequences of using asbestos with an environmental dimension should be resolved and that this would also recognise compensation on the basis of a specific law that will address all environmental aspects or negative forms of human health. However, the approach taken by the law's amended proposal is practically creating a basic law with itself in conflict, at least as far as the title of the law and Article 1 are concerned, which define the conceptual design of the law. From this point of view, this is certainly not good for the systematic treatment of the law. In the parliamentary group, we will support, regardless of this fact, the complementary proposal of the law, but we will not support the complementary proposal of the proposed amendments. In doing so, we hope that the law will also be feasible in practice or that it removes a number of concerns that have also been raised by professional institutions when considering the draft law on the labour market, and that the number of expectations of the people to whom this law is intended will also be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u85	Thank you. Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš will give the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In the late evening hours of February this year, unfortunately, a government proposal for an asbestos law was adopted in this Chamber. A proposal that was not harmonised. I hope that you will remember, dear fellows and colleagues, the Council of State voted veto on the government law because the government has passed two types of citizens: those for and those before the fence or those who worked in the asbestos factory and those who lived by the factory and were affected not by their own fault. There were people on the balcony at the time, and I also welcome them today. People, asbestos patients. Some had only a few months to live ahead of them. The coalition has overrun all warnings, requests for help. The coalition, unfortunately, didn't care. The law, which was passed before the Ministry of the Carnivore reached it, also pursued the social and health safety of the asbestos exposed. DeSUS, a party of pensioners, introduced a law; a law that partially corrected a government anomaly in the basic form of the text. We have twice postponed the treatment of this law on the homework body, due to the need for coordination with the Government and the professional body. It is also true that they were in the midst of local elections and it was not politically wise to open and adopt laws that re-shared and stressed the division of people. The harmonisation of the bill, which we do not last have before us today, has been simply and only in the direction of deleting important content, which is shameful, and I hope that not proudly, even the applicants themselves have agreed. What we have received is a dented proposal at the extreme minimum, respected colleagues and colleagues, the extreme minimum. The coalition has tabled amendments that have only been aligned with the Government. Minister Drobnič, responsible minister, was neither present nor present at the meeting of the National Assembly. And you know, it is the responsibility of Minister Drobnič to take part in such important laws, and in this place we can really ask, dear colleagues, who really cares about the sanctity of life. All of the opposition's amendments were transported on the parent's working body, and today, a proposal for a law covering only people with the most severe form of asbestos, a disease that leaves you with only a few months to live. How many people are covered by the law? Maybe one a year, and thank God, I'll say thank God they're gone or I want them to be as few as possible with this deadly disease. "Nobody understands that we residents have been exposed since 1921 to asbestos and we did not even know," are the words of one of the country women or the woman who lived, unfortunately, on the wrong side of the fence. We lived there, we couldn't move, we couldn't raise the house and go to another place. The most exposed to asbestos were right around the factory, about a kilometer radius. But, unfortunately, today it obviously doesn't matter to the competent minister, to the government, to the coalition partners or to the parties that you will, I'm afraid, once again support the law beyond the substantive amendments. Others who have or do not have the worst form of disease obviously do not have the right to receive decent treatment because they have lived, as I have already said, on the wrong side of the fence. The Minister does not grant them the same rights as workers who worked in a factory - acceptable? Certainly not for the Slovenian National Party. You know, compensation really can't cure the disease, but it's help, and believe how important moral support is to the sick. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Your Honor, at this moment, I call on you to support the substantive amendments prepared by the opposition party. In the Slovenian National Party we will certainly join in supporting the amendments, unfortunately, I will say, unfortunately, and we will also support [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u87	Your time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u88	A marriage that is certainly better than the one submitted by the Government. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u89	Mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u90	Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Already in my introduction on behalf of the applicants, I have told you what our opinion is and what we have done with the novel of the Law on the Harmful Consequences of asbestos. When we went to this work, we went to this work honestly, to the benefit of those who were hurt. Half of our group viewed this matter quite differently than everyone else. That is why it was neither populism nor our promotion, as it was written on the banner of the Asbestos Union before our parliament. We wanted to partially correct the injustice that had happened to all those who were affected by asbestos because of asbestos pollution. The problem is difficult and it's not easy at all. It is also saved by other European countries. This is how Belgium saves it, which is how France saves it, and so is the Netherlands, as is the case with the countries from which we have the data.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u91	Comrade Clavor, if you'll excuse me. My friend Lucky Friend, the third warning I give you! Excuse me! Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u92	Thank you very much. As in Belgium, as we thought, as in France, they speak of the entire territory of the country. So if we did this work, then we had in mind the whole territory of the country of Slovenia, not just Anhovega, the factory and its surroundings, although this is the greatest focal point in our country. We were thinking about those people who didn't work with asbestos, but they got in touch with him. A person who lived with a person who worked with asbestos, a person who lived, studied or worked near a factory where asbestos was used; a person who lived, studied or did occasional work in places where asbestos materials were used; a person who was involved in various activities in contact with asbestos materials; and a person who stayed close to a person who worked with asbestos and was washing with asbestos contaminated clothing every day. When we discussed the register that we thought was necessary, I cannot explain the Government's interpretation in order to stigmatise patients. I can't explain it to myself, but I've been discussing it a lot. When we finally come to the solution offered by the Netherlands, that is to say that we have completely crippled our proposal and acknowledged only to mesothelioma, I must be honest with you that after talking to the representatives of the Society, I was quite calm with asbestos. They were already so disappointed that they said it, and it's okay that you did it and accepted it. I was also pleased when the Committee adopted the amendment of the Parliamentary colleague of the Social Democrats, Mr Bevik, who proposed that this law should enter into force as from 1.1.2007. I think it was right that the Committee also unanimously accepted this. This is a group of our citizens who will be granted a right. It should not happen in a parliamentary document or a government document to write like this - or if I start otherwise, medically: when we talk about epidemiology in medical statistics, about a disease, we talk about the incidence of this disease on so many and so many people. It is difficult and almost ugly, however, to write that only people who have had mesothelioma will be entitled to it, and there are not many. Like they wrote, the beach took seven natives, and there aren't many of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u93	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the amendment review of 22.11. Thus we will discuss the amendment to Article 1, Article 2, Article 3, Article 4, Article 5, Article 6, Article 7, Article 8, Article 9 and Article 10. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the Social Democrats. I'm opening the application procedure. First of all, Member Milan M. Cwickl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u94	Dear guests! Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, as I have done on the committee once before, I would like to apologize to those who will be present today in this difficult debate, which we have already held in this Assembly for the fourth time in this mandate, and will obviously be carrying out several times more, I hope in the shortest possible term of this Assembly and this Government. I think it's clear how it's going to go today. The parties to the ruling coalition, notably the SDS and Nova Slovenija, said they would not support the amendment. They will not support this first key amendment, with which we want to prevent the distinction between those living on one side of the factory fence. With which we want to follow some European solutions. They said they would not support cheap and populist proposals. They said in Novi Slovenija that they would not support solutions that have unpredictable consequences. I think correctly that it has been warned by the Slovenian People's Party that this is a question which is in some way a broader question. The question of whether it is the Act on the Elimination of the Effects of Work or whether it is the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Asbestos Exposure and in some way extending the matter to other occupational diseases. However, we are discussing this law after we adopted budgets for the last two years of this government's term of office on Monday or Monday. And when these two budgets were adopted, it was clear what the fate of this law would be. The fate of this law will be a small correction, but the decision of the ruling coalition of this mandate that we do not want to take seriously in Slovenia during the Janša government's term of office, despite promises, even some of the so-called so-called marriage solutions, which, because of the farce we have witnessed in the last 6, 7 months, will obviously never be completed. That is why I apologize to all of you who have come today and to all who will be watching this debate today, which will not take a single step further. Why in Slovenia, after we have decided that we have so much money to give such or other tax gifts, that we do this or do it in the national budget, why do we assess in Slovenia, after we have reached or will obviously achieve the most crucial goal in five weeks, that is to take over the euro and compare ourselves economically with France, with Belgium, the Netherlands, why in Slovenia we cannot take a step further and say that in Slovenia, as elsewhere in the factory world, the fences do not prevent people from getting sick because of what the country was responsible for? In recent years, decades after the Second War, we have made major mistakes in Slovenia, and we correct these mistakes with various laws, denationalisations, these or those of the victims. And this is the exact same thing. Why can't we do that? The ruling coalition is your responsibility. Mr President of the National Assembly told me and my colleague Germic this spring that the law is, however, substantively fine, but the problem is that no money is foreseen in the 2007 and 2008 budgets. Then something similar was said to the bill's proponents, but in the final version of what is before us today, this law is entraped and is not worthy of its name and is not worth the prediction that it was going to begin to address the consequences of exposure with asbestos. Therefore, with the support of the amendment to the 1st Article of the National Assembly, if the Government cannot do so already, in the National Assembly, in which we have been very generous to a lot of people in the past weeks, for each party's commitment, about 40 to 80 000 euros, for each turn we are building anti-group fences in villages, so to say, we are building this or that, billions of tolars will be given for some protocol events, 170 billion for weapons, hundreds of billions for railways, motorways and so on - but we do not find in the state budget a few hundred million tolars every year to start solving problems and so that people at the gallery can look at the face. So I apologize to them and ask you, and please support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u95	Thank you, too. I give my word to Ambassador Cyril Testen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Also a nice greeting to former coworkers on the balcony! Look, as one of the proponents of this amendment or the novelty of the law, I would like more. However, I must say that I am satisfied with what has been achieved. Satisfied in particular because I think that we have breached the factory fences for the first time through this law and that we have offered something for the first time to those who have not worked in these productions. I would like to remind myself of the law we discussed this spring, and I must say that at the time I advocated that the law was good. Good in this sense, especially because he has given many opportunities or given an opportunity to those workers who did not directly work in the production or processing of asbestos, but also to all those who used asbestos or stored asbestos in their working process and so on. I believe that this has made great progress at the time and that the amendment of this law, and by including in the law, has also brought compensation to those workers who have suffered from mesothelioma who have not been employed in these factories, have made great progress in these factories. I also welcome the amendment proposed by Mr Bevk, which returns or sets the date of validity of this amendment to 1.1.2007, the original proposal was 1.1.2008. However, I have a problem with this law, especially the fact that we are constantly and always talking about money most or almost exclusively. Someone said health can't be bought - I agree with that. I think that this law should contain substantially more of what can be offered to the sufferer in health and similar areas. Granted, compensation is also a moral satisfaction for their health, which they left somewhere, but that is not what I think is most important. As for the problem of the government and the criticism at the expense of this government. I think that the important steps taken under this Government have been to move forward, important steps from the situation that the previous Government has left. We must not forget that all these things that we have listed have not been in all previous laws. But it's sure to be exactly the same, and at one point it won't be possible to open the gate for everyone. It is important to know that there are also many other occupational diseases in Slovenia in the field of other products, and I think it is necessary to prepare a law that will fully address this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The asbestos problem will also be very topical in the future, as, due to the late outbreak of the disease and the latency of this disease, it is only around 2030 or 2020 that there are different estimates, as we have exposed more than 20,000 workers working in asbestos production, but we do not know how many inhabitants have been exposed to these production facilities around us. It is not only the area of the Sorska Valley, but also the worst core of asbestos exposure around the Soča valley we have other hotspots in Slovenia.This is around Medvod, Maribor, and also in the shipyard in Izola have been exposed to asbestos workers and probably also some of the surrounding people, so we will have to deal with this problem for a long time, and it is certainly not the last law that we will consider and accept in the National Assembly. In 1996, according to 10 years ago, in this National Assembly, we adopted the first law, the first asbestos law. The characteristic of this law was that it was proposed by Members and Members from all parliamentary groups, whether they came from the opposition or from the coalition; it is said that a consensus was established around this bill. We also later corrected this law mainly by Members, and the government has always stood by it somehow, so I can say that, even in this mandate, the government has a red thread of this period and the functioning of the National Assembly is an asbestos law. We've been working on different proposals for two years. With regard to this law, I can say that at first I was disappointed because fellow Members of the Coalition did not invite us to sign the law, and on the other hand, I am a little pleased to see the fate of this law, in fact, that it will be very vilified. And the very procedure of this law since the end of May, when this law has been introduced, is now November and the end of the year, when it is only being considered in plenary session. He was rejected twice by the President of the National Assembly because he was not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and came to the meeting of the home committee responsible for this area only in September. The government also waited from May to September to write its negative opinion. If we had political will, it would have been different and would have helped coalition Members to make a good enough law. And then again in October and November at the Committee's meetings, we have come up with this dented bill that is now before us. In this Article 1, we Social and Liberal Democrats have proposed amendments to all articles of the law except the last article of the law, because our amendment to the last article of the law has been adopted on the Home Committee and will come into force from 1.1.2007. If we accept the amendment of the Liberal and Social Democrats to Article 1, it would make sense to supplement the title of the law itself, because we will not only talk about eliminating the consequences of working with asbestos, but we will also actually talk about exposure to asbestos, it is said, exposure to asbestos from the so-called environmental perspective. This law will also include residents living in the vicinity of these production facilities much wider than this defiling law now foresees only those who have become ill with the most serious disease for mesatolioma, which is practically incurable. And by this amendment to Article 1 we extend the concept of this law to other diseases. Then we believe that it is necessary to write directly into the law that legal heirs after the deceased are entitled to compensation if they have applied for compensation already in time of life, then it is necessary to establish, as our amendment says, a database of persons exposed to asbestos, then we wrote about the tasks of the clinical institute for work, transport and sport, which must monitor the health status of all patients, due to asbestos, not only those who have become sick in the workplace, but also those who are due to environmental aspects and other things. That is how I propose and call on Members and Members, after we have voted on the amendments to accept our amendment to Article 1 as well as the amendments to the next nine articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u99	Thank you. I'd like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Lucky Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished visitors! Time is a non-refundable component and, in particular, for those affected, at a very high speed, this time is running out, which is not comparable to patience or reason. It doesn't make sense anyway. And it's hard to listen to the delusion that I don't even tell the lies of some Members. The fact is that the proposal that DeSUS put into the procedure is basically good, but I emphasise, basically. All that later happened to this law is a disgrace. You have consented to the complete denunciation of all the marriage preambles and have remained a tiny, tiny plus in this law, which can really cause the law to be adopted because only partially or somewhat more than the existing one brings to the sick. The environmental aspect, which is excluded from this law and so many times referred to as the main factor, is crucial. And what is the blame for this for children living in a polluted environment? What are the faults of families who do not have the opportunity to move elsewhere - and are also sentenced to the same disease as all those who worked in production. We have no right to restrict the rights of those who die. We have no arguments on this basis, but we do. We find understanding for the Gypsies, we find understanding for the Church, who always demands more every day, we find understanding for the military's budget line, we find understanding for the budget line of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to make the objects protocol and other purchases, but even pay expensive rents. And, of course, we find money for this debate as well. If only this money that we are spending here and in the past, we would be helping to solve the hardships and actual disasters of these people. We don't want to, we don't want to, we don't want to take a reasonable proposal that would be in the initial phase if it were acceptable, the cheapest. Look, Chernobyl has been evicted today, the European Parliament, the old one, is no longer in use, because they have made a new one; and our Government is not even reasonable enough to apply for the funds that Europe offers to remedy these consequences. Grants, I stress, grants. We didn't do it until today. We offer favourable loans for environmentally acceptable sources of energy, but we do not find enough power to give these people the opportunity to replace the asbestos-based critique with subsidies. A single sentence in an existing law would have been enough, and that would have been done. Not to mention water installations and all those insulation facilities that were used for construction purposes at the time and are still present in buildings. Trading with the dying, we hear even misleading statements here and some speak on the parent's working body so, here and before the public otherwise. This is indeed a disgrace to Slovenia. If we are a democratic country, this responsibility, which can undoubtedly be demonstrated, should also be claimed by the individual responsible at the Ministry. Look, there's no minister here today, he hasn't been on his mother's working body, and he's ignoring all the discussions in this context with ignorance, but he's saying that the sanctity of life is his first thing, but he's got the right to advise with all the responsibility on how the future birth should be arranged and, of course, how to dress - and there's no harm to money or time. I will have a hard time supporting this law, and even though we are not signatories to these amendments, we are here with all the amendments of the LDS and the Social Democrats, because they are substantively similar to ours. And even in the past, we invested them together, and we didn't want to duplicate the substantive issues. I must say that this battle will, of course, be lost, but we must by no means throw the rifle into the corn and continue the war with the Government in this area. It is sad that we have to fight in this way, and it is sad that there are fewer and fewer who can come to this hall. Today, visitors are less numerous than on a previous visit, and this is not demagogy; indeed, some of them have already died.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, my colleague, for leading the session so far. Mrs. Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. And by the way, thanks for the card. I would like to say that I think it is imperative that the members of the coalition in the National Assembly consider adopting the amendment to Article 1, however, because at least what we can say is a complementary text of the law extending to the right under this law only to those patients and to those people who have not worked in asbestos production who have become sick of mesothelioma. I think that this addition to the law is thus the culmination of cynicism, that I do not say any worse word, because those who do not know what it means to be sick of mesothelioma should not then have the right to decide on such a law. Because he doesn't know that a man who's sick of mesothelioma has only a few months to live. Thus, when we grant him the right to enjoy the rights under this law, we grant him the right to enjoy the rights under this law, in fact, only to his immediate descendants and heirs, nothing else, because he no longer has much time left. For this reason, it seems to me that this is cynicism, that this is not worth a civilized modern Parliament, as the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia is supposed to be. That is why I call on you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, to recognise the right to the rights that employees or formerly employees have in companies where they have worked with asbestos, including all those who can prove, of course, according to the provisions of this law, that the health problems they have come from contact with asbestos, regardless of whether they have not worked with it. I warn you that this is not just about people living near factories, companies using asbestos, that it is also about people -- I will say it again, and I have said it several times in previous discussions of this law -- who have worked in very transport areas where much has been hampered. These are people such as police officers, such as customs officers, who were constantly exposed to asbestos particles due to asbestos brake linings. And sooner or later, the demands of these people will appear when they prove that they have been sick because they were in the atmosphere that they were breathing for decades, filled with asbestos particles, that they also became sick of asbestososis, which is not necessarily just mesothelioma, all the luck that it is not mesothelioma, because they will be able to carry on their illness with torture, but they will live for many years. And for this reason, I must say that what we have heard in one of the previous debates on this amendment is unfair, that the parliamentary group that tabled the amendments and that this law also speaks only of money all the time, and that it does not talk about how the asbestos patients would be helped otherwise, especially by health services. That's exactly what this amendment is talking about. It refers to the establishment of a database of personal data for persons with asbestososis, in order to ensure that their health status can be monitored continuously and continuously. This is also the objective of this amendment. And I think we should think about restricting rights only to those who already have mesothelioma - so I wish those in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia who have proposed such a reduction of this law do not know what the word mesothelim means and what the disease is. And I'll say something else. In fact, this law has a sad destiny that all 10 years have passed since the first version was adopted, accompanied by one and the same person in the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, who systematically, I do not know for what reasons, opposes that workers and even later, when it comes to the idea that it is necessary to allow the protection of rights also to those who have lived around establishments where asbestos has been used, that this person has been constantly flitting under the feet of the adoption of this law for 10 years, that it is constantly and systematically preventing rights from being extended to all those who belong to these rights. This isn't about giving someone something that doesn't belong to him. This is about the fact that this country, with its predecessors, I am talking about plurality because the Kingdom of Yugoslavia already had information at its disposal, what asbestos can do, but it has done nothing, and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia knew this, the Republic of Slovenia knew within this country and we already know - we know what asbestos has been doing for 15 years, and this country has taken 5 years to do anything about asbestos. Not to mention, I don't know how long it took her to even admit asbestososis as a professional disease. To talk about the need to bring all occupational diseases into a marriage and then to do something about it is nice and right, but when we know something and do something stupid and say, because they will somehow survive, it is best that in 25 years all asbestos patients will die, because we will have peace before them - I speak harshly, but it is indeed, whether any such impression gives such an impression to these people - I think it will be best to ask slowly whether it would not be good for the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to give the issue of asbestos and the protection of asbestos patients to anyone else, as to a gentleman who has been a very disfavorable supporter of these topics for 10 years in this ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The last in the first round is Mr. Koren.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to Members of Parliament and our guests on the balcony today! I would be very happy if today we did not have to accept the amendment of this law or I would be very happy if there were no one in Slovenia who would be sick because of working with asbestos, but not only because of work, but also because, as was already said in the previous debate, of contact with asbestos in many other areas. Unfortunately, we came to this conclusion really too late to realize that it was a very harmful and dangerous substance, called asbestos. That health is an invaluable asset, I think it is clear to everyone, but in fact, we only realize it a lot when we lose it. It's so much sadder to find out that if we know why we're sick, it means if we know the cause of this occupational disease, such as asbestososis. And that is why I personally advocate the need to help and solve this problem. On this occasion, however, I would also like to draw attention to other occupational diseases. In fact, why? So that what's happening to us today is not happening to us because of asbestos. I say we have to solve this asbestos problem, but let's also do something to make sure that in other occupational diseases that are not very small in Slovenia, which we already know about, we start to solve things, things today, so that we do not suffer the severe consequences that we have today because of working with asbestos. We still don't have a record or a record of professional diseases or, if I say so, a register of occupational diseases. We're all backing out here somewhere. I'd be wondering who's responsible for this. Is it the country that has to take care of this? I would say: The state should take care of things from the past, but the state will not worry about occupational diseases and diseases that will occur in the future, because today we all know that companies are the ones who have to take care of the safety of their workers, who also have to take care of the health of their workers, and that there may also be cases of unknown occupational diseases that will need to be protected by these workers, but not just profit and then leave the workers and perhaps the country to solve these problems. Two, three years ago, after all companies and institutions, including in the state administration, we carried out risk assessments, which I think were also intended for insurance to know which risk category belongs to certain professions, that we also have certain jobs in companies, in addition to this identified risk assessment, in the case of insurance. But many times there is that they are under pressure of capital and cannot do everything that those working in this area might want to do. With this change of law today, we've at least opened up a little bit, so at least we've crossed the fence. Personally, I must say that I have nothing against this amendment which is proposed, because what I have already said about this disease is getting sick elsewhere, so is those who have worked in other areas and have been in contact with asbestos. However, my focus today would be on this: let us do something today also so that we do not have many other similar matters tomorrow, which will be difficult to resolve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I note that there are some other stakeholders, so I am opening a second round of debate on Article 1 and on the amendment of the LDS and SD groups of Members. The application shall be made. But if the Secretary of State wants to discuss it, he should raise his hand. Thank you very much. Thank you. I'm asking the secretary of state would you prefer at the end of the debate? At the end. Good. Then I give my word to Mrs. Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you. Nice hello to you all! Mr Drago Koren says that health is a great wealth and that we are aware of it when we lose it. That's right. But we in Parliament that decide on this, and the government that decides on these issues should make this idea different, that health is a great wealth, but that we must be aware of it before we lose it. And, Mr Koren, to the extent that you agree with this amendment, which we are pleased with, we would be very pleased if you could also tell the Minister, your Minister, which means that the duplicity that we are now facing would fall away. For surely, not only in the asbestos law or in the government’s view of this law do we face ambiguity. With the duality of the entire ministry's approach to health and work. On the one hand, it speaks of the sanctity of life, of every life, of any life, sick or healthy, unadopted or adopted, and on the other hand, of course, it kills and contradicts in everyday conduct. On the one hand, he's talking about opening up options, and on the other hand, he's closing them down. On the one hand, it allows the law to be enforced with budgetary implications already in 2007 and, on the other hand, non-chalantly rejects amendments that will allow this law to actually be implemented in 2007. In short, this twofold goes so far, to this joy of life, which is appealed to by Minister Drobnič as his mantra of the rule and control of this society, transforms in reality into sadness for life. This amendment should be noted in addition to the intention to extend entitlement to persons who have not been associated and who have not been affected only within the working process, but also to those who, in addition to mesothelioma, are to be recognised as being otherwise ill outside the process, should be noted in the second paragraph or in the fourth paragraph of Article 1. This is said to be the enforcement of damages and the eligibility of compensation for legal heirs. We heard on the committee that it was self - imposed or that it was not supposed to be a problem and that there was no need to enter into the law in particular. No, it's not true, it's not so self-evident, and therefore it's also necessary to enter into marriage, because, say, we know that asbestos-related diseases happen to young people too. If I take just one segment of this problem. For example, parents who are 30 years old and under, and that their life span with this disease, especially with lung cancer, is very, very short and that they have school-bound children and that these children need so much joy to live and so much material goods that are written in some strategy beautifully, and then in some marriage they forget so quickly. The imposition of damages on parents of affected heirs must also be defined in the law and I therefore appeal that you also support the amendment that we are currently discussing for this reason. This duality and the need for a maximum positive approach to patients who do not mean such an enormous cost mean the cost of so much as the consequences, at least if we are talking about 2008 as you presented them to us in the value of a few pairs of commissions, a couple of operating tables, I will not talk further, because it is actually underestimating. It is underestimating, I will say, to coordinate around such minor judgments in such great personal hardships. The government forgets about personal hardships, literally with questions about the pain of an individual it somehow does not want to face any more and thus enforces the principle of joy to life in a way that seals the eyes. Even so far, the distinguished secretary of state says that in the strategy that speaks of this joy of life, it is about the birth of the inhabitants that we need to create a beautiful, pleasant situation, so that we can close our eyes to the difficulties. You know that you said that the media should not report sensationalistly on the difficulties of this world because families would be better able to decide to be born into the bright future. In short, I would appeal once again that this amendment should not hurt your heart if you want to have a good conscience, you should support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Reploco has a colleague of Koren's. Let me remind you again that, unfortunately, the replica is limited to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u108	It won't be three minutes long. I only wanted to replicate Mrs Širci in this respect that I, in my debate, stressed that we owe or that we should also do something in other areas for other occupational diseases, but above all let me not say, force, but employers to approach insurance for these cases of occupational diseases. It's about respect for life. I don't think that's part of this today, because someone could've misused it and said, because health can't be paid, bought with money. This is really not possible and it seems to me that this is not the context of today's debate when we are talking about a serious matter. When we're talking about the patient. I also thought about this second thought, or perhaps the patients who might be following this debate today did not have a disease of professional disease - how might they feel today? Are they second-rate, not citizens, but second-rate patients? Many of them today, yesterday, have found out about a serious illness, and also know that they are only a few days ahead of them for the rest of their lives, maybe a month, they know, they are sick of such a disease, and it is not a professional disease.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you very much. There's no replica. You'll wait until the next round. I give my word to Mr. Ljubeljski.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u110	Thank you. I've been thinking if I'd even signed up for the debate, given that I'm also coming from an environment where asbestos is present -- from Medvod, where the Donit factory is. However, I think it is right to say frankly, well-intentionedly my view of this issue. I'm not gonna say everything I said in the debate when we adopted the basic law. I can say that I talk a lot about asbestos issues, I am discussing, because my fellow citizen, a friend, a member of the municipal council, is also the secretary of the Asbestos Union, and we are very much discussing this issue. However, we are on the opposite coast in certain matters. I say that something has been done in these two years, that it has been done correctly, that it is within the scope of possible - he says it is too small. And he's right, that's how he talks and fights ahead. In today's debate, I find it disturbing that some of the opposition's colleagues are trying to create the impression that on the one hand, some benefactors are understanding, open, and on the other hand, not to say embarrassment, egotism, incomprehensible. There is the impression that one side of this National Assembly is fighting for asbestos patients and to solve this problem, and the other side is blocking it in all ways. It bothers me. We are all trying to solve this problem in the best possible way; I am certainly thinking in this direction. But what are these solutions? This amendment, which we are currently discussing, certainly does not solve this problem, certainly not. And you look selfishly, and I don't support him. Why? Since you are saying that persons who have actually lived or have carried out a certain activity in the area of business premises of companies where asbestos has been processed and stored. What about other asbestos patients who did not live in the area who were ill? That's the problem! We also talked about this when we adopted a basic law - that it is a problem to define an area in a fair manner. Where's the scale? Where's the profession? On what grounds? Is that-- what-- 10 meters, 100 meters, a kilometer? Is it going in that direction where the wind blows? It's known in Anhov that it's not in the area, but that patients appear, I don't know, southwestern or where they are. That's what we were talking about. That's the problem. And what you want to create with this amendment, some residents nearby have the right, and others who have the same disease 20 kilometers away do not have that right. That's the problem. And the solution is to transfer this to the entire territory of Slovenia, everyone who gets sick. But then there's a problem with how to set the criteria. What are those criteria? This amendment does not say anywhere how you will now determine it; the surroundings - this is a very broad concept. And here I have to say, you're discussing some of the old Members, and I have to be a little bit, I would say, in this direction, a little bit evil, and say why you didn't bring this into the original law. What you're talking about right now is how you fight for the population! Why didn't you bring this in? Yes, you entered in Article 1 and 2. "and ensure the social safety of workers who were exposed to the harmful effects of asbestos dust until production was discontinued..." "...this law provides the necessary resources..." Nowhere further in any article is he talking about the inhabitants. I can quote your articles, only talk about employees. And also practice! When we adopted the basic law, there was data, no resident under this law was compensated and all that this law brought to the workers of the companies. And here I also have a letter from the inhabitants of the Canal of Soča, saying that article 1 of the Act stated literally: "...and ensuring the social and health safety of workers and the health and social safety of the people who have been exposed to the harmful effects of asbestos dust." But in the marriage that was published on 11.10.1996, we were released, so they tricked us. And don't talk about duality here now! I'm only looking at the arguments I have before me. Patients started when asbestos production started years ago. Already 1996, 1997, 1998 were sick patients. Where were you, why didn't you save it? And now that this government has adopted this coalition, in my opinion, a good basic law on amendments and additions to the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Working With Asbestos, which replaced the original narrow purpose law, which spoke of restructuring production and banning production - nothing else. Good law, however, where the question is whether it provides and covers all wishes and desires from the inhabitants, by the union. With this novel, which we will accept today, we also open up to the population in this law. Also those affected by asbestos pollution. There was a lot of talk back then, a search for solutions, but there were no professional grounds. With this novel, she put the profession out so that the worst form of asbestos disease could be introduced. It is possible, and I am sure that the upgrade will also be this law, but one must go one step at a time on the basis of professional grounds. And if we are saying that we need to look at these asbestos patients for the whole territory, for the whole area of Slovenia, then we have another problem - what about other patients who are also suffering from poisoning? Cross valley - load of lead, iron, chemical industry. Where's some kind of justice? Are we going to solve the matter in segments? And from this it develops normally, that it is necessary to prepare and start working on some systemic law that will address the environmental burden with all others, not just asbestos. But then it opens up what are the possibilities, what are the professional grounds for objectivity, honesty, correctness, human resources, finance and so on, because there are health checks, preventive checks and so on and all of this brings financial capabilities. And it's a matter of taking the matter, that it's manageable, not just going into some gray thing, and it's gonna be okay if it does. Or there will be nothing like the first marriage, when something was formally written down in Article 1, and then there was none of it. But today I have heard the word, the original law has already regulated it, but now it has gone out with another law, with a basic law. That's not right. We know how to read other laws. I am therefore convinced that work should be started on the preparation of this system law, so that the consequences of asbestos products also need to be tackled intensively. We have so many draining asbestos pipes. Those who do not drink water from asbestos pipes say that this is not harmful. And I drink it, and I have information that it's harmful. But that's so much and so many kilometers of these pipes. And there's roofs, there's buildings, and so on. And that needs to be solved. I therefore suggest that we are truly reasonable to be right to each other. Do not work on two sides: one is good, the other is bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Comrade Ljublješek, asbestos is a disease caused by asbestos contamination, but not by the blowing of floral powder, this could already be taken into account. I would like to know, indeed, respected colleagues and colleagues, also from governmental types, what leads the government, that it does not want to solve this problem in Slovenia in its entirety. Is it money? Once again, we will have to discuss another proposal for a law that will include again what DeSUS has proposed and then shamefully agreed to delete it from the basic proposal. And we will discuss asbestos again, sooner or later, believe me, maybe not this year, but at the beginning of the second year, for sure. And look what we do to these people! It is interesting how some Members debate - if these people are not offered help, it is in some ways fair, because there is no one there in the valley of Mežíží. It's a shame, people of God! It's a shame, what you're doing! This disease has been known since 1921, the first serious study. Go online and you'll see; type the word "asbesto", and the front pages will open. And indeed what Mrs Breda Pecan said before, she already knew about it and the Kingdom of SFRJ, and today we are exposed to this problem. And, Comrade Mitja, why is there such a problem today? Because the latent age is so great. And there's gonna be a bigger problem tomorrow! But, look, there's a shame about the government, there's a shame for this parliament that we don't want to solve this problem, and we probably won't be able to solve it today. But there is also an incomprehensible fact that the Government itself does not respect this law, which prohibits asbestos production. Here are the representatives of the Slovenian Railways. 300 people are contaminated every day in central workshops! Trains drive - so-called "gobbles" have asbestos. The older train compositions have asbestos as an insulator. The 11 series also has asbestos, over a ton of asbestos! But look, when we were selling old locomotives to Italians for the price of old iron, we used to clean asbestos and on these locomotives to replace the engines and so on and sell these locomotives at a low price to the Italians who are driving today. For the 60 millionth population, these locomotives are good, and for us, the old ones can have asbestos. These same central workshops did this. [[It's an ad from the hall.]] You'll have your word, pal. You can say it then. I would just like to say that if it is allowed today to have in public traffic a vehicle in use that also endangers passengers, then something is really wrong with this government. We were looking for a location that would allow the central workshops to remove asbestos linings in locomotives and train compositions, and this was actually impossible, and the leadership withdrew from this. Today we have a suitable lobby, which is classified between two repair channels, one for "Simmense", and the other for "Pendoline". So she blows it out a little bit, and then a little bit, that's where everyone's exposed to this contamination. The inspection points to that, and no one's taking action. I would like to emphasise something else that may be heard here, but what some are discussing - I will save today's vote at the end - and I will knock on Mr Trsten and Mr Ljubeljska and the gentlemen who are so vehemently claiming that I am some of the amendments good - on the conscience when I show them how they voted. Today is a small step forward, as I said. The battle is lost, but the war is not, but it is sad that these people are running out of time. And for the longer you wait, you will do more injustice to them and more disgrace to yourself, respected in the government coalition. You'll do more shame when you spend such anomalies here and lies.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Try to discuss articles that are open and amendments anyway. But since it's such a sensitive and so serious, such a sad issue, I'm not going to limit the debate. However, Mr. Bajc would like you to speak when you have the floor. I invite Mr. Brenčič to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to say the following first. For 10 years, as a Member of this National Assembly, I am facing a question that is currently on the table, perhaps even more so today than it was when we started to resolve these issues. And given my conduct throughout all these 10 years, I can peacefully claim that I don't need to, I don't feel the need, I don't need to apologize to anyone -- not in this room, not anywhere else. Because there's no basis in my behavior for me to be sorry or sorry. However, I say one thing, if this matter were so simple, then at the very beginning of the rescue, 10 years ago we would have started or were obliged to solve it differently than we did. Therefore, it is not possible to say about this issue and this situation that only the current Ministry of Labour, as a departmental ministry, is the one that has made 100 mistakes, and the one that has no sense not of the living or the dead. That is why I do not want to discuss these matters, and I do not want to stop at the issue of fertility and so on. And there's a fact. This novel makes the basic law even more without tail and head than it has ever been. And with this novel we save only one piece of one that is not even the subject of such a conceptually designed law as the basic law. But only one piece - only the one who's unfortunately gotten so sick for this consequence and his life in this world is measured as it is. But that's not right. The consequences of the use, handling, storage and so on with asbestos and asbestos are much greater in the "environmental" population and these people are much more entitled to compensation and everything else we give them with this novel. But this novel or basic law has been conceptually set in the direction of solving issues related to use, behaviour and so on, asbestos in the title of occupational diseases. And we should stay on that. I keep saying that far from staying here, all the other influences are left to the movement and so on. However, the State is obliged to address these issues, which are related to environmental consequences, particularly in health, through this appropriate approach, such as a specific or systemic law, which must be incorporated into this with all the causal consequences and also the consequences of how to finance these issues. We should therefore open up, at least as much as possible, a fund in which funds should be raised with a key, including early retirement. It is not right that, by early retirement, we simply burden the PPIZ cash register and the indirect state budget under Article 230 of the PPIZ Act, which must provide all the necessary resources for the rights to be paid to beneficiaries of pension insurance. And then this issue would be resolved in its entirety and we would have a basic approach to issues arising from occupational diseases and must be addressed by a specific law. This is also pointed out by the Labour Inspectorate through long reports every year. That is why I say that we do not treat the whole approach well, but not that we should therefore be one of those who are insulted, one who is cynical, one who is stupid after the debate of the Seal. I merely claim that the law as it will be is not good and that many who expect of this marriage will be greatly disappointed. We brought together a good approach, but I don't know if this minister or this 10-year-old person in the Ministry of Labour is thinking about - this is probably Mr Strovs; but let's be right in the accusations and insults. Mr Strovs was not the previous full mandate in this place in the Ministry, led by Mr Dimovski, with which I can say in the title of the management committee, which was the competent committee for this department, that it was extremely pleasant and proper to work. But this question, if so, could have been resolved in the previous term, but we have not been able to resolve them, because I am still saying that we have not approached correctly, and we are not now approaching correctly. I firmly believe that this country and the government, and then the National Assembly, are obliged to establish a legal basis, a systemic basis for financial construction, so that people who are entitled to compensation for environmental impacts can be compensated for these damages and, consequently, any other damage or health or any other damage, or any other damage, would be treated against them. That's why I think it's a shame that one of us can be accused of something because of a look that's just like I understand it. The title of the law - it's too bad we're doing this. Already starting this law in 1996, for which the Ministry of the Economy was ultimately responsible at the time, we had a very narrow approach to the integrity of this issue, which was narrowed down to the restructuring of production, to the legal prohibition and to the entry into, above all, one environment that was hot. But, look, this focal point has been somewhere else, and the commitment under this law are, among other things, companies that are legal successors. Many of these companies are entirely different owners who bought a certain condition on the market and did not buy a mortgage on it because there was no legal basis at the time on which the purchase would also take account of these risks. And I also believe in this title that I am right to form a fund and a different legal system approach to these issues. That is why, after all, through the property transformation of companies, which were our own, social, and also formed - if nothing else today is the SOD, then there was one fund that should have been simply through purchases, of what was to be transferred, part of it would have been released into this special fund, from which, by example, it would have been settled, for example, in Germany, also on the issue of asbestos-based patients and all the rights they would have been entitled to settle. And I am firmly convinced that we cannot solve this today with this novel and that this situation will still remain inconsequential. And it's too bad. But if we went to the basic concept of the law that exists, which we have already adopted, somehow conceptually broken - why didn't the proponents then step into Article 1 of the law, why not just in Article 2, and why not into the title? And now the title and Article 1 of the Act remain systemically giving the conceptual design of the law as it was. But the law in its content is no longer a conceptual law, but it is not a dick or a mouse. And as a result, there are great expectations, and a lot of politics, and a lot of accusations, which are the result of some powerlessness because we did not make the right call. And I am convinced that this Government, because others are not now, must immediately approach the establishment of a legal framework to address all these accumulated environmental impacts problems, which are particularly negative with regard to the impact on human health, and that through this it is being resolved in the first place, if this is necessary for a short period of time, it is also necessary for the scope and handling, storage and so on asbestos to do so and the "lex specialis" law to write for this environmental population and for all the influences that are here; including early retirement and including some other matters that we do not even open up in the title of the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u115	Thank you, too. I invite Mr. Germich to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Of course, there is a lot of truth in what Mr Brenčič has just said before me, and certainly the truth is that the topic we are talking about today is difficult. In all the performances so far, when we discussed both the extension of the previous law and at the time of consideration, the adoption of the now valid law and even later, I tried to represent the story of asbestos, which has more than 100 years of beard. And as a result of knowledge, behaviour, knowledge in the field of asbestos-related consequences, certain practices in the past have also brought about, and here Slovenia, by law in 1996, has shown a positive response to these problems, as early warnings about asbestos date back to the 19th century. What were all the reasons? My friend Pojbič, you don't have to smile because I've already talked about this, which was evaluated under chapter Late Consequences of Early Arguing. But it was not until 1998, 1999 that the European Union definitively banned the use of all kinds and forms of asbestos, that is, 100 years later, and Slovenia resolved it by law in 1996. And, of course, at some point, she was solving the most acute problem. This, however, was, to stop production and work with asbestos, to take care of restructuring and to further address those issues that remained unresolved. I think that the proposer - these were Members and Members of the National Assembly at the time - was also aware of this. He therefore dealt with restructuring as a matter of priority, and some of the rights conferred by that law were not adequately resolved. This was also realized by the Government in its previous mandate, which set up an interdepartmental group that addressed this issue and tried to find some solutions. And this law that is in force today is an upgrade to that. I cannot agree with my colleague Brenčič that the law, which is now in force, is a good one. From the beginning, I think that the law is bad, precisely from this point of view, because it has solved only one set of issues, and that, according to my assessment, it has not solved those issues, while a set of issues that would guarantee justice for all asbestos exposed. When we had the opportunity to present our views at the time of the debate on the law now in force, it was presented on different sides that we wanted more than the law offered. We have proposed substantive corrections from various opposition groups, but they have not been heard. That conscience is also a member of the coalition, the bill that was tabled this year and signed by the coalition MPs speaks. And interesting what coalition MPs write in explanation of this law [[Quote]] : "There is no excuse to share the exposure to those who have been affected by exposure at work and to those who have lived in the vicinity of the asbestos production plants." Is it not interesting that today these same Members no longer follow this conclusion, which they wrote as a justification in the introduction to the law? For it is impossible to understand, if you read the content, the text of the law, which was created as a copy of the committee meeting, the discussions of my colleague Ljubeljska, where it raises the problem of defining the environment on one hand, without mentioning that it is not a problem for mesothelioma, since the environment is already defined in this law. So, double treatment of difficulty or difficulty or rate of asbestos disease. And here we have a fundamental dilemma on the one hand, Members, saying that we should give rights that are proven - because the law speaks of the interdisciplinary group referred to in Article 9 of this Law establishing a causal link between the exposure to asbestos in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and the emergence of mesothelioma. And if we're saying this behind the mesothelioma, why is it a problem that we don't talk about others, that is, it's easier, it's harder, it's the most difficult form of disease, it's the consequences of asbestos exposure. I'm saying once again, is it not a greater injustice that an exposure to asbestos has been caused by someone who didn't even realize it? He was neither informed nor informed, but today he suffers from this severe health consequences. Today, we, colleagues and colleagues are faced with the question of whether we will act as double-mindedly as the Government is dealing with this issue. Why am I talking about this duality? First, we have spoken twice about this content - once we have succeeded, not the second time we have extended the former law. We talked about this content for a very long time when we talked about the problem of this law that is in force today. Of course, the government has not answered one question in these two years, which is then written in its opinion as a problem in this area, under this law; they list, list problems, and of course no answer is given to the question, yes, and what has been done in these two years in order to close at least one of the fields that the Government is opening here. So, two years of government knowing that the issue is open, don't do anything. The second translation by the Government at this point is, when we say: we all agree at the principle level, health is a value or the right to health is a fundamental human right. And they continue from this government ministers, i.e. the Minister of the Department, who also covers this law, that life is worth living. So life is a value, health is a value, and the right to health is a fundamental human right. But when we talk about this today, this right to health, which someone has lost, would only somehow be returned morally in damages, in certain rights, because health cannot be restored. We are aware of this. Health cannot be restored. To morally restore this value to those who have suffered these consequences, we say no. And here's a bunch of problems we're not ready to solve. And secondly, why does the government act double-cross? For when a question has been asked to the Minister of Health, what attitude will he have to have to the question recorded in the birth strategy, whether or not he will take a step back in the control of abortions - he has no position. So the Minister of Health does not have the view that all the studies, all the experience, say that if the abortion becomes a proposal for hidden, uncontrolled acts to endanger health in this way. Of course, Members and Members of Parliament have the opportunity today to change this behaviour. And I am sure that in 1996 the Members who decided on this thought in this way to resolve the issue on which the Government may not have a solution at this time. And if there is no solution, then let us try to do this to Members and Members together. And the will of the MPs of the coalition is done. Here we have the text of the law, which was entraped on the working body and colleague Žnidaršič openly admits, it is not only the amendments brought by members of the coalition to follow the profession, but we follow what someone has allowed us to do. But the government has set limits, within which we should move and move within poor tolerance. Previously, we only dealt with a group of people who were exposed to asbestos because they worked with it in the workplace, and the solutions were very poor at some points. We reasoned that this was a separation, with the same result, for the same reason, between those who worked and those who were exposed to asbestos. Today we have the opportunity to correct this content. Let us correct it in this way by adopting an amendment that speaks of defining a comprehensive set of rights in a manner that is recorded on the basis of the disease as set out in Article 4 in the first paragraph. That's the solution that's on the table today. Whether we will be able to do this or not depends, of course, on whether we are trying to present you with arguments in the way that some members of the coalition have written them themselves on the basis of a bill that is currently under consideration. When we talk about numbers, look at the justification for the number of people we talk about. Between 1990 and 2006, for example, there were nine deaths, i.e. a mesothelioma table in Salonit Anhovo. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] From 1990 to 2006, then you have a table for the neighborhood of Anhovo with mesothelioma plevre and patients from the neighbourhood of Anhovo with plaques [[..]] [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] It's numbers we can present with our fingers on our hands. [[..]] So it's a very small number of people. The second transposition that the government has made here, including with the assistance of the National Assembly, we in the Liberal Democracy have introduced a law that has not even been able to come into the procedure on the ground that, of course, it does not adequately deal with the financial consequences at source level. When we addressed the budget, we rejected the amendment of colleague Bevek, who had allocated funds for 2007 to address this issue. Therefore, in 2007 there is no budget for these funds. We, by law, bring into force this law for 2007. What are the principles of handling the law submitted by the LDS and where is the principle of dealing with this law? The point is that, of course, we do not want to solve this issue in its entirety. We are deceiving people to resolve this with some systemic approach, because if that were true, the government today would have at least the difficulty of this approach. On my clear question whether the Government can offer this, there was no answer on the committee. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members, I propose that we try to find within ourselves the will to support this amendment. If we have a better idea before the third reading, we can do it together. To count on the Government's great help in this, I think this is a question for which the answer is clear. But I'm sure we can do it. And I am closing the debate with a repeat appeal, let us support this amendment, because if the amendment to Article 1 is not adopted, all the amendments tabled by the two parliamentary groups will, in fact, be amendments that will not follow the content of Article 1 and will not, in any way, contribute to the law, which, like colleague Brenčič, I can say, is very vilified, actually lays down one right for the environmental population that has been exposed to asbestos, but does not solve the problem in its entirety. We believe that the amendments we have drafted in the two parliamentary groups would make this significantly better and I propose support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you very much. And Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, I have heard quite a few words in the debates about how we broke through the fence. I wonder which one they fence. If someone had a bad day, bad driving qualities, he might have breached the fence, but the fence was about to solve the problem of asbestososis, and we certainly did not break it. At least the one you read, I believe you know that. We're not breaking any fences. And I'm going to say this, eight months, nine months ago, even in the absence of a minister, we've adopted one marriage that met asbestos and asbestos only for employees, which is said to have dealt with asbestos in its workplace, not for employees who didn't deal with it or lived a meter, two, three, five or ten for that fence that they were supposed to break with this law. At the time I was told, at least in my debate, I have a magnetogram to prepare a new marriage. I mentioned two months, and from another branch of the government coalition, I was proposed earlier. And at the time, I was encouraged by optimism, and I said, sooner than two months, a whole marriage would come. It's eight months today. Just don't keep your promise. If you believe that this law, which came in six months later and dealt with the environmental aspect if you consider it to be governmental, despite being filed by only one government party, you are mistaken. That's when you loaded us, and that shows a magnetogram. Loaded! You said two months ago. That's not true! There is no such integral law that is supposed to regulate these two matters. A number of laws in this House have been rejected by the coalition because they are not integrated. You don't do these things on your own either. Why are you kidding? The duplicity is the one who nobles this government. And that's a mistake, that's a very big mistake. If I focus on the amendment. The amendment will, of course, be supported by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. We will support him because he is the only one who takes account of this shrunk law - I believe that the colleagues of the DeSUS delegation, when they were making the law, were well-intentioned, but I regret only that they allowed him to be vilified, as has already been said. This environmental aspect seems very important to me, and it has fallen out. I must say that I think - and I believe that you will all agree with me - that asbestos has been used both for construction purposes and for any other purpose. And in that case, don't blame me, on my children, on your children, if you want them to have to go to kindergarten, which had asbestos cover. Out of a thousand children in this kindergarten, there may be only one asbestososis. Doesn't he deserve this help? Believe me, you did. Oh, my God! It's not my fault. It doesn't have a chance of affecting the kind of kindergarten we're going to go to, and it's up to our parents to decide. And believe me, if we looked at kindergartens in Slovenia or in the municipality where we live and chose kindergartens with no asbestos roof, we would have no choice. This child has no choice. And you want to tell me today that we've broken through some fences. Which one?Oh, my God! At least in the municipality from which I come, from which also comes the new mayor, whom I believe will also arrange something in this municipality, we have kindergartens with an asbestos roof. We got 'em. And you know what the Minister's response to our initiative, the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, is to help the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to withdraw asbestos from kindergartens at least, not to mention schools and so on, just from kindergartens - do you know what the answer is? If someone doesn't believe in electing me to the office, I'd be happy to give him the written "Ministry" or not, he was even more divided, "the asbestos roofs and asbestos issues are not the priority of this government of the Republic of Slovenia." Yeah, what kind of minister do we have? Let me tell you! And I'm going to say one more thing, and I hope to get to my performance also a replica of those you're defending. I hope we get it. There are quite a few of you present in this hall from the government coalition. I hope, given that you don't have the text written, you'll still replicate. I'd be happy to hear a different answer. And I've heard one harassment in the presence of the minister and what he thinks is appropriate. I have before me statistics, ladies and gentlemen, from this House. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs has been present since 28 meetings at 11 meetings of the National Assembly. That's less than half. Now you can see how serious he takes the work of the National Assembly and since none of the laws on asbestos was present, how serious he takes you on the balcony or other people who could not have reached the balcony. How serious he takes you with his presence and how serious he thinks the problem of such a disease, which in its final effect, regardless of whether you have acquired it at the workplace where you were received, I will say, a close encounter with asbestos, whether you lived for the fence of this factory, which was engaged in asbestos, whether you went to kindergarten where the asbestos roof and asbestos taps or pipes were so important to him that he is not present at any of these meetings. I will be pleased to support the amendment, as proposed by the opposition colleagues, colleagues from the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the Social Democrats, in taking this environmental aspect into account. None of us can influence our environment. Don't promise us a comprehensive law about who will take this into account. Please, we don't believe you anymore! Magnetographers say their own, they make their own promises, but they don't. It's eight months today, and I'm stressing again, ever since you promised us a comprehensive marriage. That's not the law. So you've been loading us. I will gladly support, once again, the amendments of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Nevertheless, I must warn you retroactively, Mr Zagorac, that we are not talking about Minister Petty Officer, but about Article 1 and the amendment. So much for the front. Mrs Cotman, State Secretary, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister had a government today, and now he has a speech in Philharmonic. So much for an apology. Allow me to begin by explaining that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has only been given jurisdiction in relation to asbestos itself, the law and the enforcement of the law itself, this year. Since 1996, when the law was written, it has been the responsibility of the Ministry of the Economy, so they have by no means held Mrs Pecanova's claim that for 10 years a worker has been working on this law. With regard to the amendments tabled, I would like to explain that the right to compensation already exists under the existing law. If the injured person or the applicant submits it and if he dies, then the right to inherit has been submitted in the course of his life, and this makes it possible for the current law in the articles. With regard to the extension of the right to residents living in the vicinity of companies, I would once again agree with the opinion of the Members, who pointed out that there is no specific and defined environment in these amendments, nor is it specified in the amendments as to how this contamination of the environment is established. With regard to the following amendments concerning occupational and non-professional diseases, I must point out that our legal legislation or legal terminology does not know non-professional diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac, if I understand correctly, has a replica. Will you wait for the second round? Good. The second round is kind of ahead of us and I'm opening it. Please, for your application. Thank you very much. The first one has the word, Mr Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u122	Thanks again for saying that. Since I respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and have not been mentioned in the address of the Secretary of State, I applied for a second round, but you know, you gave a barren apology to the Minister. I hope the Philharmonics don't come under the asbestos roof and there's gonna be some kind of horror out there today. I believe that you could sit in this congregation for at least four hours and explain things or answer the questions we ask. As for the asbestos that you mentioned, professional diseases, and I don't know what else. Wasn't the government and the government's parties aligned when they flew into this national assembly with their law? If you haven't, then I regret, then this is the barren work of this government, a very barren work if you haven't agreed. Really. One more thing. This Government, in particular, Minister Drobnic in his performances, places great emphasis on coordination with the European Union. You know, the European Commission in Brussels once operated in a building made of asbestos critiques and closed it down. In this building today, which is glass, precisely because asbestos was "like" dangerous, although you say that it is not so much that, if you do not act directly with asbestos, glass roofs have been made. This government, and this minister doesn't want to help these citizens get rid of asbestos in kindergartens, not where we're sitting officials, not where children have no choice. And this minister wrote in an explicit reply that he didn't want or that it wasn't his priority and not his government. Yeah, where are you? Yeah, where are you? If we can provide security and a healthy life for some officials in Brussels - yes, if we don't have our children, who will we be? And you're talking about being born. Shame.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! It was clear that we had not previously solved the environmental problem of asbestos exposure or that the inhabitants would also be an integral part of the rights under this law and that the law was written for only one company, namely Salonit Anhovo. It is true that, at first, in 1996, an asbestos law was written providing a means of restructuring production for only one company. As I said earlier, this law was signed by Members and Members from all parliamentary groups. I'd still like to tell you who they were 10 years ago. First signed was my colleague Breda Pecan, then Miloš Pavlica, Igor Bavčar, Žarko Pregelj, Janez Podobnik, Zoran Madonna, Miroslav Mozetič, Borut Pahor, Jadranka Šturm Kocjan, Miroslav Geržina, Marjan Polšak, Jožef Školč, Marjan Podobnik, Ivo Hvalica, Roberto Battelli and Janez Jug. Immediately after that, the content of the law was extended to all companies that had asbestos in their production. I can tell you this, because the government itself wrote that since September 1998, this government has written down, from September 1998 to the end of 2003, a professional disease has been verified in 1411 people. It is mainly in Salonit Anhovo, but also in Termika, from Donit, from Swati and from other employers in Slovenia. It is said that the law applied to the whole of Slovenia. Why, especially from Anhove and that area, so many recognized and verified diseases? Because there was a medical profession, a work of medicine so well brought into this problem of detection of asbestos diseases and because he was an employer, I would say, enlightened, unlike some other employers in Slovenia. Now, or this year, the government could extend this concept of law to the population and to the environmental aspect, but you rejected all our amendments in the spring when we considered and adopted this current law. The government didn't do it. Today, fellow Members of the Coalition, you have the opportunity to take a step forward to support these amendments, which have been tabled by the Liberals and Social Democrats to this Act, and to draw closer to the solutions that some European Union countries, such as Belgium, France and the Netherlands, have. Belgium, for example, has a law that applies to the whole country, does not draw any areas around businesses. With this law and with these amendments, we would extend the law to the whole country, but an interdisciplinary group of doctors of various medical professions would play an important role here, which would then determine who is entitled to the rights of workers and between residents under this law. There wouldn't have been, I don't know, mass abuse, there wouldn't have been any abuse at all, but I would've told everyone pretty much who's entitled to the rights of this law and who isn't. And there's something else I'd like to say. See, the explanation of this law shows that in 2007 there would be only 52 beneficiaries from this environmental point of view, of which 18, due to this worst form of mesothelioma. In 2008 only 54 beneficiaries of all asbestos diseases. In 2009, only 58 beneficiaries. And in 2010 as well as 58. Together in the four years of 223 people who are sick who would have rights under this law. And if we look at how much the financial burden on the budget would be, let's say, in 2007, in quotations, but if we look at some other costs, just 160 million tolars, a little less than 700 million tolars over the entire period until 2010. It is said that these are not so large a means that this state budget could not bear them. However, I would say that you voted in favour of more than one billion successive asphalt amendments in the next two years without difficulty in addressing the budgets. For more than a billion, which is stronger than it is for the entire four-year period of costs covered by this law, if it were extended in the way that the proponents originally intended it and then maimed it themselves, and now we, with our amendments, are trying to get it back into the right and normal tracks, so that this law will get its true content and its true face again. And there's something else I'd like to say. Here is an article published in the newspaper Work: For 65 million tolars of asbestos compensation. In fact, the asbestos commission is, I don't know, because we don't have complete data this year, 19 settlement with the injured. She spent 65 million tolars on it. The 19 victims of the law now in force are not very many. It's very, very small. It is said whether the disease is so small, it is said that those who have been exposed to asbestos in the workplace, or whether this government commission is not working or working very slowly, or whether it has started working now towards the end of the year, otherwise it will not be able to spend all the resources that are on the budget line for 2006. Let me tell you, 19 settlements have been concluded. And it goes on to say that for health reasons, two injured persons could not attend the settlement. They say they're so sick they can't get out of the hospital bed. And I'm also surprised, look, "Indemnities will be sent to beneficiaries in the shortest time," and here's the point, "that is, not later than 60 days from the day of the settlement," the ministry said. So when they make a settlement, and when it's legal, they're going to delay paying these sick people damages for two more months. Come on, for God's sake, pay these people the next day when a settlement is made! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Today, we have heard an interesting thought that in the amendments tabled by colleagues from our parliamentary group and from the Liberal Democracy, we should also write a definition of the extent to which the extent of the space in which asbestos can be recognised as a result of the impact of asbestos when it comes to people suffering from asbestos outside the production premises, it is said that they were not employed in companies using asbestos. Let me say again that the whole of Slovenia, not only the whole of Slovenia, the whole of Europe, the whole world, all the roads, all the intersections, everywhere where any stations were, in the form of border crossings, in the form of traffic crossings, in the form of intersections managed by police, was an atmosphere full of asbestos dust. Only this aspect needs to be looked at, but of course it is not possible to limit or define an area in which someone may have become sick of asbestososis. For God's sake, let's not look for reasons why we wouldn't do something, which gives people the opportunity to get at least part of their suffering settled, because this country is because there are other countries too, but this country is the one that has caused our country, because of its slowness, because of its indifferentity, because of its cynicism, which is now emerging, that some people may never experience to be wronged or, I will say, the damage that has been done to them for all these reasons. Let us not demand that the right of people who suffer from unprofessional exposure to asbestos dust be restricted to a narrow space around factories. It is not true that only a narrow space around factories could cause asbestos exposure. And until this country, and this country, we in the National Assembly, have admitted that at least 30 years of delay, have gone to solving a problem that she already knew 45 years ago, and nothing has been done, but I have to say that those who speak are, yes, because they are also other occupational diseases, and also a different exposure to harmful influences. Yeah, it's true. And for those harmful effects of other harmful substances, this country will have to answer sooner or later. And it is also likely that those who have been neglectful will be harmed by inadequacy to claim their right sooner or later and get appropriate compensation for it. And I think, however, that sooner or later, state officials who were not, unless, of course, you were police officers or customs officers, you should never be exposed to the pronounced functioning of asbestos fibres, to once recognise the right of these people to compensation and the right of these people, in particular, to a special recognition or treatment procedure in healthcare with free health care and also to all the care they need when they are seriously ill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs. Uhanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted. After 100 years of asbestos production, after 10 years when the state of Slovenia banned asbestos production, the problem or consequences of working with asbestos is actively addressed in 2005, 2006. It's with the patients. Therefore, I do not accept any criticism at the expense of the Minister, how bad the law is, how it is not resolved, how it does not participate and so on. It's being handled actively. With the law we passed this year, all patients, who are easier and heavier, are entitled to compensation in the workplace, in factories, shops, transport, even heirs, if they have previously died if they have applied for compensation. Today's amendment also warrants permanent residents in the Republic of Slovenia, no matter how far away this fence has been, about which some people today talk so much about who have become sick of the most severe form of cancer. This form of cancer can also be proven professionally. I am glad that this novel is being saved today by all other patients, whether they have been actively working with asbestos or not, or by the fence or somewhere in the middle of Slovenia. Indeed, it may be easier to prove whether the effects are asbestos or other forms. But it is true that asbestos patients are the only patients in Slovenia who are coping with the law, and it is also right, and we welcome this. However, many other patients are not being rescued, including in agriculture as a result of pesticides, or in Krka as a result of chlorine in Cellulos, radioactive radiation and so on. The Slovenian Government will have this work, a lot more. But I am glad that this government has listened to asbestos patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac has a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I don't know what else you're going to say. You've been in power for two and a half years, and I don't think there's any more excuses if you want to fix anything, anyone you can provide, even if it's the agricultural area you mentioned, you could have done it already. Why didn't you do it? There are enough excuses about the previous government. It's been enough time to handle this on your own. And don't say we broke through the fence today, we didn't. Children living in Maribor will not receive compensation under the asbestos roof in kindergarten, although there is no asbestos factory nearby. And when you talk about harder and easier forms of cancer, I don't know how you allow it. Cancer is cancer. Cancer is a disease, cancer is always a serious disease either harder or easier, in the end it's almost always, at least 90%, the result is the same unless you're lucky, or if you run to an alternative, then it's not. But in the end, the result is always the same. How can you separate someone who has a severe form of cancer today, or someone who has a lighter form today? You'll both have cancer tomorrow. I don't know how you can afford that. This is the humiliation of the people who are sick! This is the humiliation of all cancer patients and of all asbestosic patients! And you said the same thing as the style of the minister coming from your party. God and shame!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajc, I can't give you a replica because you haven't discussed it yet, so I suggest you wait for Mr. Skolcz's discussion, and then you'll have to wait. [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] I know, but the Rules of Procedure don't allow that. [[...]] I suggest you sign up for the debate when Mr. Skolč is finished. Now he has the word, Mr. Scholch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am taking this debate as an opportunity only to try those solutions that have been lacking in some way to upgrade and solve what we know at this point. However, I fear that even after such a changed marriage in time, there will be something else that will need to be discussed. What is true is that this law has been built up several times and that the embarrassing thing is that it has always been possible to do so with a relative consensus. This was no longer possible in this mandate, when I do not know why, it became a matter of prestige. Therefore, I am pleased, on the one hand, that this bill has only been tabled and I see an opportunity here, but I am afraid that if we go through each other, this will remain a lost opportunity. I will say to the amendments, which I believe should be supported, that they do not, by their intention, object in fact, if I understand correctly, not to the Government or to colleagues from the positions parties. Therefore, it is so much less understandable that they cannot be supported. [[Mr. Bajc, am I done talking to you?]] I want to say that the path to a common solution is probably also possible through the adoption of this amendment and others, and that we will correct those shortcomings which Mrs Cotman has pointed out in the third reading. This is the way I see it. There is certainly a flaw in our solution in not determining with legal power what that area is outside, I will say, asbestos production and storage facilities. Whether the answer is in the solution you gave or not, I don't know. However, I think that this third reading could also be corrected if only the will to do so within the framework of the coalition and within the framework of the Government were to be corrected. This could be determined by transferring this designation task to any one of these committees so that it can be transferred to a survey or in any third way. But it takes the will to find a common solution. I do not understand, however, that it is not possible to accept that the right to inheritance be punished. It is true that it has already been implemented at this moment, I will say, this right in this way. However, if the argument on point 3 is that it is necessary to have a very precise legal provision, it would suggest that this structure of arguments persists even when it comes to writing down this right. We do not object in this and I do not know why this cannot be accepted if it is already being done. And the last thing we're proposing is to slowly establish a register, just to get to the point where we know to what extent this problem may be waiting for us as a society. This is a thing that can have limitations if we look at the protection of personal data, and on the other hand it seems to me that there is a series of instruments, that such a register can be established and that such a register is very useful in dealing with these problems. In short, the proposals we have put forward are in favour of solving these problems, and I do not understand that we are putting our heads in the sand, that we are not able to accept them, and that we are not able to upgrade them at third reading, if necessary. All these discussions were held in this National Assembly a few months ago. At that time, this debate ended quite infamously with the promise that all of this would be resolved in this law. Unfortunately, this is not properly resolved. And here's a chance to do it. But I don't see the way out of the puzzles by rejecting these amendments, but I see the bigger by adopting the amendments and by upgrading in the third reading, which would be possible in such a case. So you have an offer, don't look away, accept it, and together we can fix what you think is wrong by the third reading, or else I don't understand these discussions anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I'm reopening my application for debate. Please sign up if you'd like to discuss it. Article 1 and the amendment of the LDS and SD parliamentary groups. Mr. Bajc, perhaps more decisively. Is the machine not working? Then, if colleagues agree, perhaps the State Secretary of Cotmanov would comment first, and then Mr Bevk, if you agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since a few questions have been raised, I would answer with regard to Mr Bevk's spent resources. 62 million were not used, 62 million were spent only at the first session of the Commission which distributed these funds, otherwise 320 million were earmarked for this year. We believe that we will also use these 320 million in the next resolution. With regard to the revision of the third-reading amendments, however, I believe that there are too many open legal issues and that this cannot be defined in the third reading, because, in addition to the area or the environment of the definition, there is also a particular issue of the causal link to all compensations and the disease itself must be listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! It is now clear from this explanation that it is only now that the Government or the competent ministry, as well as this commission resulting from this law, has begun to implement this law. It is said that more than 300 million tolars will certainly be difficult to spend by the end of this year and will, of course, be lost in the integrated budget next year. Earlier, respected colleague Marjetka Uhan said that this government had listened to asbestos patients. In some respects this is true, but in fact it merely continued to implement the previous law proposed by Members and Members, and which was then amended several times by the Government and by other Members and Members. But she had, and this government actually has the opportunity to take a major step forward. Although the government has delayed it, today you, fellow Members of the Coalition, have the right to take a step forward and extend this law to support, as we say, our amendments, so that they are included in this law, not only mesothelioma, but also other asbestos diseases. That the problem is very topical and that we are not really any delays in solving the asbestos problem in the Republic of Slovenia, the fact is also clear that a European campaign against asbestos is taking place in Europe this year under the auspices of the European Union. So, the whole of Europe, the whole European Union is dealing with this problem. And he says asbestos is deadly, prevent exposure. The last Directive of the European Union concerning asbestos was adopted in 2003. It was said that any use of asbestos should be excluded from production by 1 January 2005 at the latest. However, the problem of asbestos exposure is not over. It remains in the process of disposal, demolition, supply and maintenance. And this 2003 Directive commands that all the laws of the European Union should be aligned with this Directive by 15 April 2006. And this European campaign against asbestos is aimed at whether this Directive is being implemented in the countries of the European Union, and thus also in the Republic of Slovenia. And right now, in the autumn work of this campaign, the inspectors responsible for this area are reviewing whether this Directive of the European Union is being taken into account or not. This is how we can say that legislation dealing with asbestos is modern in Slovenia and that we are not any delays, but that we have an extraordinary opportunity today to adapt this legislation to some EU countries that have primates here that deal with this environmental aspect, such as Belgium, France and the Netherlands. I think that Belgium and France are addressing the whole area of their countries as we propose with these amendments, so I would suggest that we take a step forward and accept our amendments during the European campaign against asbestos this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Skolcz has a replica of the secretary of state, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I thank the Secretary of State that she is among the few who represent the Government in this National Assembly to respond at all to the things we are setting up. I can see, I'll say, the willingness to solve problems. She rejected my proposal that this path has too many shortcomings through the third reading. But she only listed two. One is that it is a matter of defining this wider environment and the other, which is linked to the issue of this causal link. I must say that this other problem is adequately resolved by laws and additions because it is already going to this mechanism through this Interdepartmental Commission. That is why, in fact, we are left with only the question of this broader definition of the environment, if it is no longer a matter of concern. And here we are on the issue of political culture: whether there is a willingness of the Government to accept this amendment today, and together by the next Wednesday or Thursday, as far as this meeting is planned, we are trying to resolve the issue of the legal definition, if this is possible, how to put this influential circle of these harmful influences. I believe, Madam Secretary of State, that we are very close to being able to seek a path together, only if you, I will say, your people who are used to following faithfully in the government's vote, let them support some amendment and that together we are looking for a supplement for, as far as I understand, only one flawed definition. To, I'll say, arbitrarily resolve it, maybe not 100 percent fine, but certainly better than what we have today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Okay, then I'll reopen the circle. Before giving the floor to Members and Members of Parliament, I invite the Secretary of State to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u140	With regard to the 2003 European Directive, I must explain that we have adopted a Regulation on asbestos work last October 2005. I would also like to explain that European legislation does not talk about compensation anywhere. It even says that compensation must not replace protection and safety measures at work. We have determined both compensation and the consequences of working with asbestos by means of our law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u141	Thank you very much. And Mrs. Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I shall almost entirely focus on the previous response of the distinguished Madam Secretary of State, Mrs Cotmanova. I believe and also, on the basis of the preliminary examinations of this law, realize that you are not competent to fully represent the position of the Ministry. You have made this clear because you do not really have the power to decide the matter. This was clearly evident at the very meeting of the parent’s working body when we were trying to change the law. You don't want to. That's the truth. And if you look at the magnetogram, you'll see what was going on at the mother's working body. You say, Mrs. Cotmanov, there are too many open questions. At one of the meetings, that was when we moved the treatment of this law on the home work body, it was on the side, and today with us, Mr Štebet, it was clearly and loudly said: "Government is looking for solutions consistent with the social partners." The government has had enough time, I estimate. If the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is able to prepare a fertility strategy within just two months, it is not possible to prepare a coordinated proposal with your coalition partner DeSUS in two months and a few months or more since May, not least since the last time your government law passed the veto of the State Council. I find that hard to agree to. Last but not least, it is difficult for me to agree to such an explanation because of the Government's opinion on this law, the Government's opinion of 7.9.2006. In principle, the government agrees with the basic solutions in the bill, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the last paragraph says: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia would not object to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the elimination of the consequences of working with asbestos, the reduced procedure, if the proposer in the law clearly defined criteria for the recognition of rights to the environment. And I'm asking you what you've been doing for two months while we've been putting the law on hold so that the government can harmonise itself so that the Government will try to find an acceptable solution with DeSUS, who are the proponents of this law. An acceptable solution, it is said, is only and only to define criteria for the recognition of rights to the environmental population. Only the criteria were questioned. Today, however, we have a law that, on a proposal from the Government, actually deletes all the good solutions that this law has brought. I really don't understand this deceiving or duplicity of government and ministry. Another piece of information. You mentioned, Madam Secretary of State, the financial side - 320 million Slovenian tolars, if I understand correctly. I'm asking if this is the generosity of the government that everyone should be proud of. No, no, no. You will probably recall that, on the working body, colleague Bevk proposed that the law should apply instead of 1.1.2008 1.1.2007. At that time - which is also evident from the magnetogram - you said that the Government could not agree to this, because the Government had already closed the amended draft budget, despite the fact that it had not yet been addressed by the National Assembly and it was in fact time to include additional financial resources also for such a very narrow law as it is today on the proposal of the Government and, of course, with the support of coalition Members. At the request of the coalition Members, we had a ten-minute recess so that you could finally reconcile - I don't know, with a minister who, I still say, is responsible for this law. Ten minutes of rest, that then, I don't know who to honor, you said yes, but let's give the date of the law or the start of application a one-year postponement. It is not fair, it is not fair that you come to the meeting today with such answers. And I believe, once again, that you are not fully responsible for this because you do not actually have the power to make decisions, which is the responsibility and responsibility of the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This debate has been going on for quite some time, and I think it's been a good three hours, and how interesting it is that when we consider the amendments to Article 1 - the item on the agenda is the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Working with asbestos - we are talking about everything else but this article and the amendment to this article. We spit on the government, we spit on the coalition. Some take the time to read who signed it for the third time, I think this year, the first marriage in 1996. Some people tell us about locomotives, who sold them, how they sold them, how they broke them down, and I don't know what they're all about. So we're talking about everything else, and in the meantime we're adding something else about patients. I got over cancer myself, and I hope it makes the form of cancer easier, and I was operated on last year. Because of this, the one who said that there are no different forms of cancer - they are, they are very different forms. Unfortunately, the one we are talking about today, which we are talking about, is that whoever is sick of the form of cancer defined by this Article 1 and amended, is entitled to some compensation, as was the case, before the fence or the fence, if he is sick behind it. Next thing you know, I'm gonna say. We spat on the government, and we're talking about how in two and a half years she didn't do anything to solve the issue of asbestos patients. I think some of you sang that 1996 law that was in force until 31.12.2005. It is from 1.1.2006 that we have not had a valid law and that is when we joined in solving this problem. I'm not saying it's a good solution. I think that colleague Brenčič also mentioned in a somewhat broader discussion and issues regarding patients with asbestos disease, or as a result of working with asbestos. But we agreed on something. I think we've adopted better than before, given that we've materialized this law. You will recall the spring debate when there was a speech that it did, and this has also extended its validity for even one year without re-examined this law because the funds provided in the budget have not been spent. The next thing I'd say, and here he went on to say where Mrs State Secretary mentioned how many of these funds were distributed. We will remember that this law was passed in the spring, and I expect that all those who are eligible, who have given their role in a timely manner and who have been found to be in time, I will say, will be dealt with and that they will be doing what is going on with the law under consideration or the law in force. As it is said, I estimate that this law, which is currently in force, is better than the previous one, but it is not the best. We're partially improving it. But don't tell me that, not by the provision of Article 1, because for those who have become sick of this worst form of cancer, we are extending entitlement to the territory of the whole country. And that's why I think this solution is good. A brief comment I made when one of the colleagues spoke about police officers on the crossings and so on, but I suggest that we read Article 1(3) of the amendment to Article 1. All we're talking about here is those inside the fence around the fence. So those who were directly -- and so on. So we're not talking about those who were police officers on the road, or those who were in traffic crossings, where there were a lot of stops and asbestos fragments spread from the brake linings around the atmosphere. I don't think this amendment saves that content, either. I think that the solution is, as colleague Brenčič said - or as they have in the world today, I do not think that any of the experts who understand this is for this; as Germany has saved it. I don't think anyone has solved this problem. He was instructed by his substantive colleague Brenčič to set up funds for these occupational diseases, from which compensation is also paid. I think that the Secretary of State mentioned that the directive does not provide for, I will say, state budgets to pay compensation for occupational diseases; it is said that the workers were paid, the workers in production. This is probably the responsibility of the owner or, earlier, it was all ours, but for some time now it is not all ours, and let us try to make things right again to the greatest extent possible; but the country will continue strictly - and also the extension of this law, or the contents of this law, to a wider area or to a larger number of beneficiaries - to find a solution that will sustain, I will say, even within the norms envisaged by the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u146	Thank you very much. There's only one sentence I'd like. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you know, ministers give up moral responsibility around the world, not because of subjective or objective responsibilities that can result in death. I ask you kindly not to embezzle in such a miserable way, unlawfully enriching individuals. If only one of these were to basically dispel stolen money, we have solved 10 such problems. It's embarrassing what you're saying, Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u147	Thank you very much. As you know, there are no replicas on the replica, but it will be possible to log in. How many times do I have to repeat what's in the rules of procedure? Mr. Germich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. I would also like to comment on Mrs State Secretary's statement, which speaks of the fact that, of course, there are many issues related to how we would define the environment, because this is a very difficult task. I would only point out that with the text of the law brought here by the President-in-Office! [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u149	Mr. Bajc, a reminder. Mr. Bajc, please calm down if I'm not really forced to use this most stringent tool. We expect some average, normal behaviour from the average Member and Member of Parliament. Mr. Germich, please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u150	Thank you very much. So, I would just like to point out that, by the Secretary of State, her statement is credulity, because, in Article 1 of this text of the law, which is currently under consideration, it is clear that the rights under this law are also justified by persons with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, so we have defined the environment. If we think that certain rights require a defined environment in a different way, then we would expect the Government to do so and present a proposal. I would point out the text of Article 4 of the Act, which is in force where we clearly write in paragraph 3: "The diseases referred to in paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 of this Article shall be considered as occupational diseases if the causal link between exposure to asbestos in the workplace and diseases is established by the interdisciplinary group" etc. And in the same way, we apply this behind mesothelius also with the proposed amendment to the law. Then what's the problem? The problem is that we don't want to grant these rights to people who have been exposed to asbestos in the environment and it's an easier form of disease, but here's the problem. For all the rest is conjecture. If we can do this behind mesothelioma and define an interdisciplinary group to prove it, this is justified in a professional way, then we do not see any reason to do this for the lighter forms of disease resulting from exposure to asbestos, which are listed in Article 4, paragraph 1, of the current law. And, of course, it's all about swindling. And all I'd like to say next is that. We have defined the way the liabilities are distributed where the liability for compensation occurs, and we have identified them between the country and the companies from which the employees have suffered certain consequences. So we have recognised certain rights, and we have also recognised how they will be settled. And what is the problem of not considering making this effort for those for whom the interdisciplinary group will find a causal link between exposure and morbidity? So once again, I am talking about not being willing to do these things, and the will that my colleague Žnidaršič said about is only up to the mesothelioma and nothing more. And no expert opinion is the reason, colleague Žnidaršič made that clear on the committee. No, we are not solely following an expert opinion, but what someone has put in our frame, and we, with the amendment to Article 1, are just pointing out this and we want to appeal to Members and Members to see this and by adopting this amendment we are trying to make an amendment, even in the third reading, which could introduce the additional criteria that you are talking about for the environment today, but I think that the new law also contains environmental frameworks. However, they are written, unfortunately, for a very scrupulous framework of rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Look, I say again that maybe the previous Rules of Procedure really assumed that the replica was possible only when someone was named. The new Rules of Procedure in Article 70 no longer require this. Please, if you're in doubt, take two minutes and read this article. For I will not read it again and waste my time at the meetings of the National Assembly. Mr. Bajc, unless you have a procedural process, I'm opening a new round of debate. Okay, please. Thank you. Mr. Bajc, you have the floor now.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for the lesson on the content of the Rules of Procedure. I know him very well. And I didn't want to replicate, but I wanted to point out the second fact: that I expected of you, who usually give proper warning of regret, of mud - what happened to me. I've been discussing the content. I haven't mentioned anyone. I suggest, Mr Vice President, that you read the last part of the debate when almost I was declared Taliban by my colleague Friend. That's what I wanted to warn you, not go with the replica to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Bajc. I thought it wasn't an insult, but you guys got pretty close to me when you came to me and bullied me when I was running the session. Mr. Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u154	A lot of words have already been said, especially by some groups of Members, we have actually witnessed that connotation gathering political points at all costs and with all means. This law is once again an example of some parliamentary groups, even when the Government amends its law when it satisfies what the representatives of these parliamentary groups have wanted and advocated months ago, of course, it is not good again and there are new requirements that are whether or not feasible, are not precise and would like a law that cannot be implemented or is very much a question of how someone would implement it - it is clear that this is not an interest expressed through this debate. It is only a cheap political marketing where the objective is to devote the means. It's just about popularity. And here is a particularly prominent group of Members, which bears the entire national name. I think it is a real shame for this Parliament that such groups are affected, who are injured, who, however, need to be helped, which the Government is trying to help them, but cannot help them without clear frameworks, without clear criteria and without content, which are then feasible and which are not constitutionally controversial and do not place citizens in different situations before the law. I protest against such a way of working, and I also call on the presidents to try to steer the debate really, at least within the framework of the law. Today, we have heard more about the resolution or the fertility strategy than we have heard about the asbestos law by some parliamentary groups. I think that this is a pure abuse of the National Assembly, the institutions of Members and also of the debate institute we have here. And I protest against such a way of working, and I think that something else will obviously have to be done here, because it's not going anywhere anymore, we're not seeing such a debate today, even yesterday, even before yesterday and so on. I do not think that the swearing that occurs here in the National Assembly by the same parliamentary group falls within this context. And I ask and call on the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members to act on their behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Kokalj, as you know that I am trying to conduct the meeting to the best of my ability, but the boundary between insult and still acceptable communication is quite mixed up quite a bit. But I would be alone, and probably my fellow Vice-President and the President himself, the happiest if the debate were to take place at a higher level. Mr Zagorac has a procedural proposal. Please, I'd like to hear your proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u156	Just at the outset, Mr President-in-Office, I will make a procedural proposal, and only later will I take the time to explain it. The procedural proposal by the Slovenian National Party is to calm Mr Kokalja and to prevent the insults, the lies he is citing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u157	Mr. Zagorac, look, you're just opening Pandora's box. That's not gonna get us anywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u158	Thank you for the warning, Madam President, but I think in two and a half years of this government's rule it seems necessary to open this box, as you yourself have called it, Pandora's. I am very sorry that they are trying to discipline us, to prevent us, as is the way a minister comes from their kind, so that a speech that is understandable in public appears.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u159	Sir [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u160	I have to say, I'm very pleased. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u161	This is not a procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u162	I'm glad you understood what we were going to say. [[...]] So we were clear, direct, precise, because you understood. I'd expect someone else to say I don't understand what they're saying. I'm an intellectual, but I'm glad you understood. But I'm not happy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u163	Mr. Zagorac, a proposal or I'll take your word from you. Please, last warning, then it'll work. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u164	I'll say it again, please, if you prevent in the National Assembly lies that someone uses their ego at the expense of another member group and that someone protects the misdemeanor of their minister, who comes from the ranks of New Slovenia, who does such stupid things on account of [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u165	Mr. Zagorac [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u166	one of the other parliamentary groups. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u167	I prevent lies from being wasted and you insult each other. Thank you. I'm opening the next round of application if anyone else would like to discuss it. Mr. Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I didn't want to hear from you, but after everything I'm listening to here in Parliament today, I still have something to say. We have completely politicized this law here, so that we do not hear or listen to any real arguments. We talk like money and money comes from the sky. No one wonders where the money came from to replace all the patients, checks, compensations; in short, there was no talk about it. I think that this discussion is beneath every level and in such a discussion I do not even want to participate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pecan's replica? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u170	I'll tell you very briefly. When we talk about compensation funds, health checks, monitoring the situation of these people, we are talking about very little money - very little money. Just one of those Martin's rags, or whatever it is, we give up, and we got it covered. Please, stop fooling around! We do not talk about spending money when it comes to the health and life of people, even when it comes to correcting the wrongs that have been done to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u171	Thank you. And now it's Mr. Bevk's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! When we say something critical at the expense of a single marriage proposal, it is the gathering of political points, populism and other adjectives. But it's something else. One of the presidents of the parliamentary parties announced at the end of 2005 that he would also find room in the new asbestos law for the environmental consequences of the use of asbestos; this was published in the newspaper Primorska Novoce. And also the need to have an integrated approach to this issue is said to adopt such a system law also for all other harmful emissions, not just asbestos, but also for all other contaminated areas such as the Mežíska Valley, Idrija, Zasavje and some others. It was none of this, though it had been one year since the President of one of the parliamentary parties had announced it. And that there is indeed something wrong with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs' tasks, this news, which we have just received, that the Prime Minister has proposed to the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to step down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich, I think you have 17 seconds - better than nothing, probably.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u174	Thank you. Just an explanation, Mr. Bones, that it won't work out. [[End warning sign]] That we're doing it in a really soft way. If you read the contents of the amendments that we have advocated since the beginning of the procedure, not just in this law, you will see that the content is always following. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Zagorac has the word, and of course I appeal to the tolerance of dialogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u176	Thanks for the appeal, but I'll tell you anyway, and I'll try to keep the amendment. The environmental aspect is the one you miss out on in this marriage. You're saying we can't put money on our noses that doesn't fall out of the sky. No, this money doesn't fall from the sky, but the state collects it from taxpayers. And if this money could be found by 31.12.2005, I would like to remind those who spoke about this government, how good it was and made a law, you know, you've been at the government for a year! In one year you failed to secure this money, today we are at the end of 2006 and you still have not managed to secure this money! Don't let anyone tell him I'm politicizing! These are the facts. You let go of the environmental aspect because there's no money, you'd rather put it in armor, you'd rather put it anywhere else. One more thing. When someone says something's wrong with the Constitution. Cancer really isn't in line with the Constitution, but it's a serious disease, believe me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u177	Thank you. And Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. My colleague Zagorac, I am not too upset by the performance of him or his group of Members, but if there is no offense, if this is more of a promotion, as was said yesterday; but, as a respected colleague or others of the National Party's delegation, I have said it the last time, and I will say it again today, in view of the discussion earlier on asbestos roofs.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u179	Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u180	In kindergartens, however, with this connection with the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, it would be a time for a truly respected colleague, Mr Barovic, to return to the National Assembly and tell you who is in charge of preschool education, primary education in terms of ongoing maintenance, investment maintenance and investment. [[..]] Please, that part about it, on this side, that's why I said it, and that was really a deception to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u181	Mr Zagorac has a replica which is, of course, counted at the same time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u182	Sure. Very briefly, Mr. Mikolitch. How good is the work of your minister, let's take a look at the latest news from the WTO press agency, and you will see how it is assessed by the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u183	Once again, I warn and say that we do not have Minister Drobnik's agenda and try to avoid such remarks. We are discussing Article 1 and the amendment. Obviously, we have some other applicants or interested parties, so I am reopening the eighth report for discussion. Thank you very much. The first one has the word, Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think it's really hard to hold a meeting in such troubled waters and a bit of overheated passion, so, colleague Kokalj and colleague Zagorac, I suggest you go to coffee at my expense at this point and you will calm down a little while while I talk there, because there is no room here for you to take a little too much of the right of parliamentary democracy. But we are talking about this Article 1 and we are talking about everything else, just not why this point and this amendment are today on this agenda. Coalition, the government supports this story, as it is, of course everyone is not the best of year and it is not possible for me, because when we talk about health, the value that is the greatest and therefore the right - this law corrects them. Perhaps not as you wish some in the opposition, not all after the year, even no law now that we are dealing with in the National Assembly has been after all the opposition, it has sucked, it does not apply, it does not apply. And these days, there's a little too much of this intolerance. Is that really how this Roma issue got us into trouble with each other or something else, I don't know if it's the atmosphere before December? In short, I have a feeling that we've gone to a completely different extreme, because so far I haven't felt that way. Secondly, I find this to be: this first article and this amendment; no serious and responsible government would be difficult to "burn" any of these things. I think it's a little too much to ask, and I don't think it's human. And this marriage is entirely according to my humble knowledge, my behavior, despite talking about the health that we all give the most for him, if we have the money and if we don't have it. But here I think there are some adjustments to be made, one positive correction going in the right direction, and yet to give to those who have this right under this law, these eligible persons have a positive movement in a positive direction after this Article 1. Let us be a little patient, rational and responsible for all of this, for we would take all in all areas when we talk about health, especially: we would give everything, unfortunately not. And I think that this segment, which is here in Article 1, is completely correct, and this LDS amendment of yours seems to me to be stretching things out to the unknown knee, which is also not right for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u185	Thank you very much for the invitation to tolerance. However, I give the floor to Mr Kokali.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u186	Thank you. First for an invitation to coffee, we'll go with Zagorec, Zagorac is still going, I'll go after him then, just to tell you about the content. In fact, there is a large difference between the registry of the sick and the register of persons exposed to asbestos. That's exactly what I was talking about earlier. How do we establish a register of people exposed to asbestos, who predicted the financial consequences that colleagues have been talking about here, when it comes to negligible money? Sorry, all citizens and citizens are almost exposed to asbestos. Almost all water systems were built decades ago from asbestos pipes. A lot of criticism was asbestos. It is said that this register can easily cover almost all citizens and citizens and if we go to a minimum compensation, no one knows the financial consequences and it would be irresponsible of the Government to propose such a law. That is why I say that those who propose this do not take it seriously and do not propose it responsibly, but, once again, I will say, are going to cheap political marketing at the expense of those who have really problems with asbestos. And I think the government, I'm going to do it again, listen to the debate that took place months ago, to fix the marriage. Be so honest and admit that the government has also taken your proposals into account in the current proposal. Now it is trying to extend this practically to all citizens and citizens. I'm sorry, today someone who knows more about this might be able to tell the mayor, who is already the fourth term, how many residents are still supplied with drinking water through asbestos pipelines. The vast majority in Slovenia. And if we start with this register, then we can't predict the financial consequences. And I'm going to say it again, so it would be irresponsible to support such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mrs. Uhanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. I was challenged by one of the parties who left this session. Regardless of how the President of the Government of our Minister feels, I would say, as I have already said: the consequences are being actively addressed, the centuries-long consequences of working with asbestos in this mandate. One law that provides material compensation to all who are sick is easier and harder to deal with with asbestos and today’s novelty to those who suffer from asbestos - related cancer. That's a fact. As for the register, I think we can all be Slovenians in this register, all of us. The whole municipality of Trebnje practically drinks water running through asbestos pipes, schools, kindergartens, factories are covered with asbestos. Are we going to work on the register now? Instead of allowing mayors, the local community and the government to decide and prepare programmes to remove asbestos from roofs, pipes from plumbing, to run for European funds and to remedy it, we are today discussing how many people are going to get sick instead of going to work. As far as legislation is concerned, I think it's being handled properly. However, if the needs are even greater, I think that next year is another year and that this can also be improved.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I see there's a need for another round. We're opening a nineth debate. Mrs. Žginer Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u190	Thank you very much. To avoid being misunderstood, the government is addressing the problem, but in a selective way: it has first-class and second-class citizens or the affected citizens are not equal and equal. We're putting an end to this with the amendments. Do you understand, respectable colleague of Uhanov? Support some kind of amendment!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. For the record, there's no more time. In this 2003 EU Directive, which refers to these registers, in particular to employees who are still working on asbestos removal. The health review of workers must be carried out in accordance with the principles and practice of the medicine of work. It must include at least the following measures. First, running a worker's medical and professional history, then four other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I think that there is no longer a desire to discuss this specific Article and the amendment, so I am concluding the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the LDS and SD parliamentary groups. LDS is running out of time and SD is running out of seconds. I conclude the debate on this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the LDS and SD parliamentary groups. There is no debate, so I conclude it. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the LDS and SD parliamentary groups. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the said two groups of Members. There's no debate. Article 6 and the amendment of the said parliamentary groups. There's no debate. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the LDS and SD parliamentary groups. There's no debate. Article 8 and the amendment of those parliamentary groups. There's no debate. Article 9 and the amendment of the LDS and SD parliamentary groups. There's no debate. Article 10 and the amendment of the LDS and SD parliamentary groups. This time, however, I open applications to act in accordance with practice and the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u194	Let me say that we have not debated now because there is no time, but we will identify ourselves with individual amendments when the vote is from Articles 1 to 10 of the Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda, it is now clear that this will be essential before 21.10 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AGREEMENT AND EXPENDITURE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR LEGAL OBLIGATIONS REFERRED TO BY DARS D. D., under the European Investment Bank for the Slovenian Autoways VIII Project (EPA 1129-IV), urgent procedure. We have two hours and 45 minutes to discuss. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u196	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will briefly present the bill. The proposed law is subject to consent to the engagement and guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to Dars d.d. for the liabilities under the credit agreement for the Slovenian motorway project VIII. On this basis, the European Investment Bank Dars d.d. enable the drawing of credit up to EUR 300 million of the capital, which will enable the ongoing implementation of the programme of construction of motorways on the sections of Pluskva-Ponikve, Ponikve-Grastje, Šentvid-Koseze, Slivnica-Drazenci and Vrba-Peračica, or the dynamics of construction in accordance with the Resolution on the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and the Annual Plan for the Development and Reconstruction of Motorways for 2006. The European Investment Bank is ready for Dars d.d. grant up to EUR 300 million of credit to finance those sections, provided that the country issues a guarantee loan. The newly proposed law will allow for the conclusion of a guarantee contract, which will be signed on behalf of and on behalf of the State by the Minister of Finance. The law contains the consent and guarantee of the liabilities of the loan for the Slovenian motorways VIII project. Basic terms and conditions of credit, mandate to implement the law, procedures for the possible redemption of the guarantee and method of its payment through a special contract concluded between the Republic of Slovenia and the Company for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia d.d. In particular, let me stress that the credit in question does not constitute a new debt. The adoption of the said consent and loan guarantee law of up to EUR 300 million will reduce the quota of EUR 245 million under the Dars State Guarantee Act of EUR 360 million adopted by the National Assembly on 9 February 2005, which is set out in Article 4 of the Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u197	Thank you, too. As usual, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has considered the current bill proposal and I ask the Committee president, Mr Starman, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u198	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I say hello to everything! At its 25th session on 22.11., the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the Proposal for a Law on Consent and Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for Credit Liabilities leased by Dars d.d. at the European Investment Bank for the project of Slovenian motorways under number VIII. At its 76th meeting on 10.11., the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal should be considered on an urgent basis. Representatives of the Government, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport and a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service participated. The representative of the Government stressed that, with the adoption of the law, the Republic of Slovenia would also give consent and guarantee on the debt of Dars d.d. for the liabilities under the credit agreement for the Slovenian motorways number VIII project. This will make the European Investment Bank Darsu d.d. enable the drawing of credits amounting to EUR 300 million, which means the smooth implementation of the highway construction programme in line with the 2006 annual highway development plan. With regard to the financial implications, the applicant submits that Dars d.d. will provide funds for the repayment of the loan. from the means of concession of the duty. The Committee considered two proposals for amendments to the Committee, both agreed with the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the proposer. However, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly did not agree that this is being considered jointly on consent and guarantees in a single bill, but that proposal was not taken into account by adopting a complementary bill, including two adopted amendments, and we propose to the National Assembly that it should also be adopted in such a content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Hvauc has the floor on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that the economy and the whole country cannot develop if the transport infrastructure is not adequately developed. Without this performance, there are also many other problems in purely everyday life from traffic congestion to traffic accidents, environmental burdens with gas, noise and other matters, so we are aware that it is necessary to build a network of highways in Slovenia; such a network that will connect different regions, different areas of Slovenia and therefore we are pleased that the Government of President Janez Janša has taken steps to build more rapidly an ambitious road map. Such construction is also important because traffic on the roads continues to increase. A special increase began when we entered the European Union. As an example, the traffic at the border crossing of the Long Village, where the number of trucks has increased almost three times since the entry into the European Union. We are also aware that motorways are being built for several generations, and given the fact that Slovenia's budgetary resources are limited and that the construction of motorways is very necessary, we support the model of financing road construction also through loans. To this end, this honourable assembly has already adopted two guarantee laws to finance the construction of motorways, worth EUR 360 million and the second in February for a little over EUR 1000 million. The law that we are considering today will allow for the drawing of credits of EUR 300 million. It should be reiterated that the law does not constitute a new obligation, but it is in fact only a reduction of the already approved guarantee quota under previous laws. We will support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. This will enable the construction of highways on the sections of Pluska-Ponikva, Ponikve-Grastje, Šentvid-Kosese, Vrba-Peračica and also Slivnica-Gruškovje. Moreover, it is not irrelevant that this law introduces a more favourable manual, that the repayment period has been extended from 20 to 25 years and a lower interest rate on the lender, that is, the European Investment Bank. It is also important that the cost of granting credit to this bank is virtually zero or negligible. As a result, we do not see any reservations in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we would not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u202	Mr President, Members and Members of the Government. This is not the consent and guarantee law of the Republic of Slovenia for credits Dars, it is the Law on the extension of the repayment deadlines from 20 to 25 years. That's the only reason we're sitting here today in the National Assembly. This is why it is a law that irritates and does not value renting for Slovenian motorways. Due to the policy you will, of course, confirm by the adoption of this law, public debt and the volume of guarantees will increase by more than €200 billion in the time of the Janšev government. So far, we've borrowed about three billion euros for highways. Because of this law and the laws that will still be coming to the National Assembly during the time of this government's mandate, not only will we and our generation of children repay loans, but we will have to repay loans by 2060, 2070. These loans, borrowed money today, will also be returned by our grandchildren. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will not support the Law on extending the repayment deadlines, even though, as the Government says, the interest rate for borrowing from the European Investment Bank should be lower. The point is that we're going to pay this loan for five years longer, and that's why, everyone can figure out what the depreciation plan is, we're going to pay a lot more interest. We must therefore remind the Government once again to consider the correctness of the modified method of financing Dars in its mandate. The government has closed all the budgets of its mandate by drastically reducing the funding for the highway programme, resulting in a record borrowing and issuing of guarantees from the Republic of Slovenia to Darsu. It is known that until Janša’s government performance, the state budget provided Darsa with between 30 billion and 40 billion tolars per year. This in four years, in the four budgets that have already been adopted, is no longer available. And this money is no longer because, as they say, it would accelerate the construction of state roads, which we support, but that more money could be earmarked for repressive authorities, for "patries", for congressional centres, for glass palaces, for hundreds of new employees, not least for 20%, the fifth growth of office materials in 2007. The Transport Ministry is therefore getting less and less money for motorways. And what's gonna happen? Construction of highways will not be accelerated, only the construction of highways will be undermined. Until recently, the construction project of the motorway was financially stable, with its net value, the remainder of the money, it would enable the construction of other projects, 3, 4 of the development axes. Now, Dars will be insolvent if the toll draw does not rise by 40% in 2008 and the amount of money from the highway budget to 50 billion will not rise again after the period of the Janšev government. These are the conditions of the study, the analysis of the Economic Institute of the Faculty of Law. Can the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Transport and the President of the Government ensure that a hole in the highway programme is thus closed? They can't. That's why we're saying it's a fake guarantee. This is borrowing the state budget directly from the state budget [[ringing a cell phone]] , resulting in an increase in interest costs. This is not a guarantee law, it's a law to extend the repayment deadlines. We're rejecting the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u203	Please turn your phone off, mag. Squeak. Mr Weber has the following word on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law on the consent and guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for credit liabilities leased by Dars to the European Investment Bank for the project of Slovenian motorways is unusual at the address itself, since for the first time we are talking about having a law on consent and guarantees in the form of one law. In the Socialist Group of Members, we believe that if we decide on such a way of rationalising, if we can call it, in the process of enacting legislation, other laws should be amended before that, but that we cannot deal with one law but separately, and in this case the Dars Act should be amended before this law is considered. The proposal does not foresee this, but we do not believe that such a solution is nevertheless in the spirit of respect for national law, and we expect that a change of Dars will take place in the future if we adopt such laws in the future. With regard to the drawing-up of a EUR 300 million loan, which is within one billion euro - of course, there is obviously nothing wrong with it and it is right that these funds are earmarked for urgently needed sections, Pluska-Ponikve, Ponikve-Craestje, Šentvid-Kosese, Slivnica-Drazenci, Vrba-Perecica. These are all sections, which are also listed in the Resolution on the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. However, we have doubts as to the Government's claim that the funds to repay the loan will be provided from the concession fee paid by Dars. Indeed, we base these concerns on the fact that in the 2006 budget we have made a drastic effort to reach out to the resources that are the most valuable source for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. The resolution on the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia provides for resources to be built under the law on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of state roads set out in the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, then through cohesion funds, concession fees and debt. So in these sources we have drastically reduced the highest quality source, this is the so-called petrol tolar, and we still do not have an effective toll collection system. Thus, the two highest-quality sources do not follow credit commitments, which, as adopted in EUR 1 billion, are not changing, but the possibilities for repayment of these loans are changing. Therefore, we think it would be very sober to consider taking into account a study on the basis of which it was found that any reduction in these resources for repayment is unacceptable in the future, or that there will be difficulties in the business of Dars due to overindebtedness and the inability to repay credits; which means that, or the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will have to take over, as set out in this law - this obligation to pay credit - which I do not think should be the direction of our transport policy. In addition to making a drastic attack on the gas toll in 2006, we also experienced a rebalancing of the 2007 budget again uncontrollable intervention in Dars' finances by coalition parliamentary groups. The amendments adopted in adopting the balance sheet reached out to Darsa’s highest quality sources. We therefore believe that, due to the change in financial resources for the construction of motorways, we should first have a rebalance after the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, especially because we are not only interfering with the resources for the basic programme, but also because we still have an additional programme of motorways in the resolution, which we know we do not have the resources provided. And if we were to start talking seriously about the rebalancing to provide resources for an additional programme, then even these coalition desires to interfere uncontrolledly with Darsa's assets would not be. And we really expect the Ministry and the Government to prepare a real picture as soon as possible of the construction of the basic programme and the additional programme of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and only then adopt the debt laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we support the Proposal for a Law on Consent and Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the liabilities of the loan leased by Dars d.d. at the European Investment Bank for the project of Slovenian motorways. We support efforts to complete highway links in the Republic of Slovenia in a timely manner. The proposed law is the consent and guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to Dars that, on the basis of a contract signed by the Minister of Finance, the European Investment Bank’s credits amount to up to EUR 300 million with the corresponding interest and other costs. This credit will allow the timely realization of the construction of highways on the sections of Pluska-Ponikva, Ponikve-Grastje, Šentvid-Koseze, Slivnica-Drazenci and Vrba-Peračica. The total volume of guarantees does not increase. The second guarantees already accepted are being reduced at the expense of this guarantee. At the same time, for the construction of the department of Vrba-Peračica, the duration of the loan is extended from 20 to 25 years. The adoption of the proposed law by emergency procedure is necessary in order to avoid negative consequences, as we believe that if construction does not continue according to the timetable, there will also be greater economic damage. Those who know the situation, especially in the northeastern part of the country, will agree that it is necessary to complete motorway legs as soon as possible because traffic is increasing rapidly. The funds for the payment of the loan will be provided by Dars from the concession fees and the financial consequences under this law would affect the budget of the Republic of Slovenia only if the guarantee was renewed under the consent and guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for that loan. In this case, the Republic of Slovenia shall have a right of recourse to Dars under the guarantee contract. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the construction of the Slovenian motorway programme as soon as possible, so we will also support the bill. We will also support the proposed amendments adopted on the home working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u208	Mr. Vice President! Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! By proposing and considering the law, the National Assembly will give a green light for the lease of Darsa and also take over the guarantee for a loan for the construction of the highway cross in the Republic of Slovenia. The law applies to credit obtained from the European Investment Bank. In addition to credit, the means of building the motorway are obtained from other funds, cohesion decision funds and, of course, concession fees, and something small, directly from the state budget. The credit, which is the subject of the law under consideration, will be intended to finance and build more motorway sections without repeating them. I would not like to comment in detail on the terms of the loans and repayment periods themselves, because I believe that the Government or the competent ministry has taken into account the interests of the Republic of Slovenia and also Darsa's ability to repay the loans. At the same time, I believe that the grant of the guarantee for public funds will have no consequences and that Dars will be able to deal successfully with the obligations under the leased loan on the basis of the concession fees received. The use of credit for the construction of motorways at the European Central Bank also makes sense to us for the purpose of releasing funds in the domestic budget that enable the financing and reconstruction of state roads. Regardless of the necessity of building the highway cross, it is necessary to know that, and in the long term, many places in Slovenia will depend primarily on state roads and will never see the highway cross, not on the third or fourth axis. So far, public roads have been neglected in a number of ways and so much more attention needs to be given to them than has been the case. For this reason, we will also support the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Today is not the first time that we are talking about the construction of motorways, credits, guarantees and everything else that belongs here, and let me remind you that so far, the DeSUS Group has always been inclined to carry out the project as quickly as possible under the most favourable conditions and that in the end, we are all looking forward to the completion of the individual routes within the envisaged deadlines. We support the national programme, we also support the annual programmes and we know what the procedure is and where the resources are to do so. It'd actually be weird if we just walked away from it. However, it is necessary not only to take into account what some point to, namely, financial aspects, this is one of the very important aspects, it is probably necessary to take into account the real needs, but also to take into account the substantive reasons why the programme was adopted and tried to implement, and of course also the problems of people who live on these routes and, of course, are more eager to implement them. The economy will also gain indirect consequences in this way. The question is whether an arrangement is in place or not. Some believe that there are no and suggest different options. This competence, which has been proposed and is intended to be reduced, is one of the options. However, the immediate question is of whether it is possible to do so, whether this might not mean that we should extend any other adoption of the programme, or whether this might not mean that the interest rates would then be different so that the costs would be different. And it also raises such questions. Those who have proposed what we are dealing with now, this fundamental proposal, assess that the Ministry's proposal is appropriate. We will also support it, agree on this argument that we have heard and look forward to being able to stand on individual sections as soon as possible, which will be completed and will solve our pressing problems and offer new development opportunities. That is why we will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u211	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. Only one amendment was tabled to Article 1 of the LDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Check-in is on. Mr. Janko Weber, you have the floor. You're giving up. Mr. Mag. Milan Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u212	I repeat. Because of the marriage we will not be able to build a highway, not later. All we're going to do because of the law, as it is now designed, is we're going to pay more interest if there's a payoff period instead of 20, 25 years. And since the government has said that it wants to reduce the cost of the highway program, I propose an amendment that binds us as the legislator of the current and future government to return the loan in the 15 years. The will of this National Assembly is very simple, whether we want to pay more or less interest as a good master. We suggest we pay them less. I suggest you support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u214	I guess I'll hear something really new in this room. He says, whether we support this amendment or not, or we pay 15 or 25 years, the roads will be built within the same time frame. Somehow this doesn't work with my modest economic knowledge. But I'll probably hear about that, too. See, Slovenia is not so rich that it can build such demanding projects as a highway programme or something else with only budgetary resources. If we want to, and the need is to build highways as soon as possible, we need to find the right resources. As I mention, we are not so rich that we can build directly from the budget, so we have more options. One is to raise taxes, and we say, this is going to be about building highways, at this rate and at this rate, we can also significantly lift tolls. But even today, tolls in Slovenia are relatively expensive and I do not know if this is acceptable. But we can slow it down. We'll be building highways for the next 20 years. But I don't know if it's acceptable for those who drive today from Prekmur or Maribor to Ptuj, 20 kilometers after 3, 4 hours. I don't know, but we can make a deal. And this government has just chosen a way to build roads as soon as possible. Of course, what you borrow is also necessary. And that's why we need to have resources. And it's not so magical that we're just going to extend or shorten this deadline from 25 to 15. It is necessary to provide funds for this. However, if there are no funds and apparently no funds, it means that the programme will need to be slowed down. And it's not just that. Comrade Squeakle, I agree that we will pay slightly more interest if we return 25 years and not 15 years as a proposal. It is also true that this will stop some other projects because we will have to repay the loan sooner, or that project, which is to be financed directly from this loan, will be built later. It's not just about how much interest we pay. It's about how much damage is caused by the fact that highways are not built, how much damage the economy suffers, how much damage is it that those bound to this area that are standing in these columns, smelling the smell of these vibrations, and so on. And if we're counting, then we need to calculate in these simplified calculations, as previously presented, all of them. Therefore, this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party simply cannot be supported because we think it is not serious and does not have a real basis for really building highways within the time frame we want and as necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mag. Squeak, replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u216	Members of the House and Members of the House! It's a very simple matter. In any case, motorways will be built by 2013. We propose to return the loans by 2022 and you propose to return the loans only until 2032. And why do we propose 2022? Because the President of the Government with the Resolution on National Development Projects said he would be in power by 2023. And I just want him to pay back all his credits at this time. Not that you actually owe Slovenia until 2032, but in a few months we will come up with credits by 2050, 2060 and 2070 because it will not be possible to raise funds in the budget. Not a single day will the date of acquisition or completion of motorways be extended or reduced due to the change in the repayment deadline. Only in the following budgets, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 until 2022 will the Government have to be more cost-effective according to our calculations. Once more cost-effective than if it pays by 2032. You know, everyone who protects their land knows it's not good to owe it back to his grandson, but if it's possible to return the land with their own hands. And you're still in charge of your grandchildren. And the matter is very simple: are you up for saving or are you up against saving. It's a very simple decision. I would still trust you all if, on my working body, my proposal that the Committee on Finance, as a parent working body, get an analysis of all of Dars' loans, did not compare interest rates that this proposal was rejected as an unacceptable proposal for decision-making at all. So don't tell me what's gonna happen and what's not gonna happen. We are bound as the legislator, not us as the executive power, we as the legislator of the government, to be cost-effective.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Check-in is on. Mr. Janko Weber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. Already in the debate on behalf of the Group of Members, I have raised a dilemma with regard to the applicant's claim that the funds for the repayment of the loan will be provided in Dars, namely from the concession fee. The fact is that we are very much involved in resources that allow for the payment of credits. This law is not shown in any way in any way and the consequences will be, because we have already spent more than 22 billion on Slovenian railways in last year's budget, and in fact they will be thrown out of the window, and nothing will actually come of these billions, and there will be an ever-increasing loss. In this year's rebalancing, we re-take Darsa's assets on this item. But no one in his own explanations will show the consequences. And what is written in this amendment to reduce the repayment period of this loan from 25 to 15 years actually opens this issue. If we have so much resources at our disposal that we can just take Darsa 20, 30 billion without having any doubts, then I don't see any reason why we shouldn't go from 25 years to 15 years to pay that loan. Apparently, there's enough money on Dars not to say too much. So much for serious reservations not to accept the LDS amendment, I really don't see the logic of using Dars' resources. In my opinion, however, it is a matter of exhaustion of Dars, or we will put him in a position when he becomes one of the largest, most indebted companies in Slovenia. And even if we look at the resolution on the national programme, we can see that the earmarking will amount to €2.43 billion by 2019. Will we achieve this when we take these funds again and again? Therefore, I also seriously point out that in a very short period of time we should face the rebalance of the resolution on the construction of the motorway programme and look at what is real, what is not real and probably even then say whether it is a 25-year deadline too long and why it is so long and whether it is not possible to go to a 15-year period because it is likely to be added because this is a shorter period to achieve even more favourable credit conditions than it is for 25 years. That's the logic of banks somewhere. Of all these, I can say uncontrolled interventions into Darsa's finances, that's one of the smallest interventions if we say this will be paid back in 15, not in 25 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u220	Thank you very much. I am very glad that at least on this content we are finally united, that we need this credit to complete this story of the highway cross and that there is no dilemma here. Apparently, there's a position and opposition on the same denominator. It surprises me, after these days of debate in the National Assembly, that we are finally once united. It is only the content or now the time of return, whether it is 15 or 25 years. Mathematics is probably speaking in one way or another, and I say from the point of view of the opposition it would be logical to return the loan as soon as possible, the better for them. But let's be aware, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the only story this government and this coalition must make. What about Slovenian railways, infrastructure? Then the opposition continues to say what it will be, whether it is also a programme to be implemented, and is also extremely demanding in financial terms. And the third development axis, and the fourth development axis. And when these papers have to be put on the table and these things met and the requirements given will certainly be difficult to squeeze into 10, 15 years. It won't work, it just won't work, because there won't be any resources for it in the short term. And if we want to do these things as soon as possible and finish the highway cross as possible, it has nothing to do with the completion of the highway cross, because it will be finished anyway, I know. But yet, all these tasks to fulfill in this short time 15 years, this is a short time, it will be impossible. And here I understand the Government that it has to look for other alternatives, that it will also be able to put into budgets in the coming years, that we can also be where we are still weak, and this is the third development axis, which is urgently needed, will have to be financed and in Slovenian railways, infrastructure and so on. Here I understand the Government's extension of the repayment period, because it will make it easier to achieve all the goals it has set together with this programme and this coalition programme, so I do not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. It's a practice replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u222	Very briefly. Mr. Janc, you're the mayor. If we went to the municipal council to say whether I should be in charge for 15 or 25 years, the councillors would tell you how you could be in charge of 16 mayors' mandates. Two, one, tops. And the government wants to put us in charge of six government mandates. And I say, this is not about a discussion between the opposition and the position. This is a debate between Parliament and the Government when Parliament sets out the government's conditions of goods. And, gentlemen, you will have to be more cost-effective, this is the only message we give as a parliament if we succeed in supporting the opposition's position together, which requires greater government austerity. That's all. This is a simple amendment, a simpler amendment, where there will be a distinction, whether we are able to support the government's demand for austerity, or whether we think it is necessary, in saying, to continue doing this or that irrationally, it will be seen in the vote on this amendment. We can't design a simple amendment any more. And for the record, interest rates are the same, only interest will be paid less. We'll pay less interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u224	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. I think that the proposal from my colleague, Mr Prickl, was more political than financial expertise, because, of course, I have great respect for him. That's how I think he explained it himself. Thus, of course, this proposal cannot be supported and I will not support this amendment either. Slovenia and this Government and this coalition and this country have decided to build highways faster in this mandate. It has decided to build motorways mainly on credit, but not on budgetary resources. This is just one decision that has been made, and therefore more credits are needed. I am also happy or satisfied with the state, not for myself, that although it says that it has fulfilled this commitment under the Coalition Treaty, it will check the possible introduction of the guilt and if the study shows positive effects, it will also introduce it, but not. And I'm glad she didn't introduce it, because, of course, the effects would be extremely negative and then it would really be a problem to repay all these loans. If I add this up and put it on a common denominator, of course I will not support this amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Strabe. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Mr. Mag. Squeakle, you've got a replica. You've raised your hand before.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u226	The amendment is not political. The amendment is more political-economic. It provides a clear direction for the economic policy of the Government, which should be a cost-effective government, not a government that will repay loans borrowed in 2007. However, the financial calculation is clear. The depreciation calculation will show that in the 25 years you will, of course, pay about twice as much interest as in the 15 years. Is that what you want? That is why the amendment is political-economic and talks about the content of economic policy if the National Assembly is able to give it to the Government as a guide. That's why we have the National Assembly, I guess.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Strabe. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Vice-President. I don't know, maybe this amendment is electoral, pre-election, political, but it can be economic. My colleague does not want this Government to be in power until 2032 and 2033, but agrees to be in power by 2023. That's 15 years from now. If you reduce the repayment period by 40%, let's say that under the same interest, I don't know, but then the amount of the refund, the annual amount should be higher to return in 40% of the shorter amount the same amount. Usually, interest may also vary. This government is actually following the same concept as it was set up with previous governments. The concept is exactly the same, but the acceleration is different. And if you want to speed up, do and finish something, and with some real obligations, things are still to be earned and returned, we are talking about Darsa's concession fees or how Dars will manage these highways, how much he will collect the toll, how much he will collect them, how much he will spend on maintaining these motorways, what amount he will remain, and whether this amount is real for returning the annual obligation. If you reduce the repayment period by 40%, increase the annual commitment by a similar amount. Is that real? We all agree that it is necessary to complete these motorways as soon as possible, since they should have been completed 20, 30 years ago. The developed countries have done so. Today they're building a second or third generation of railways. Where are our railways?Oh, my God! I don't see any economic reason here, maybe that's just the reason I mentioned at the beginning. Such an amendment under the terms of a concept which is and which is in force, I still do not understand, because then we can only abandon the accelerated completion of motorways. All we can do is drop it. Although the matter has been carried through the same family. If Dars is not able to generate enough income in this family, or if the drivers pay a fair toll if he fails to manage well, someone else in this family will have to replace it. And that's what we're kind of confirming right now. I don't think we can get out of this story here, it's best to build a highway and with built highways, let someone calculate, an economic institute at Law School, how much money we threw away. All of us, the economy and us as individual drivers, because we haven't built highways in 30 years. Time, money, robbery, misery, accidents, influences on state roads and on all other roads, not to mention. If someone put this together, it would be best to build all the freeways in one year if we weren't in the 30s. And I will oppose this amendment, absolutely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Hwauc, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In dealing with this amendment, my colleague is a bit unusual, because we usually use years, months, days and even lower units to measure time, and he is obviously using mandates, which shows that he is clearly looking at this problem through some political dioptry. Besides, it's his business, but I'm making a picture of myself. The fact that credits for built highways will also be paid by our craftsmen is true. That's right. But it is also true that they will ride these roads, so we build them, among other things, so that we and our explorers can ride. And the life span of one highway is not 15 years or 25 years. On regular maintenance, a road like this probably lasts 50 years or so, I don't know, I'm not a builder, but I don't think I've missed much. And if we're building 50 years ahead of time for someone to use this 50 years ahead, then there's no sin if we're in debt for 25 years. Besides, I've heard that we're going to be indebted to our grandchildren and probably to our grandchildren for 60 to 70 years. Where does this data come from, I don't know, from 25 to 70, we're talking about a 25-year-old loan, 25-70-year-old loan, 45-year-olds missing in the middle. But where these 45 years have been, I don't know, but I don't think it's going together mathematically. So we're talking about debt for 25 years, I think we have a lot of unfinished highways in Slovenia, state roads, a colleague mentioned railways, and probably some other infrastructure, and I think it's perfectly logical that we're trying, what's been delayed in the past decades, to try to make up for this in some way, to make up for it, to make up for it by taking a loan, a loan that in this case also has some real source of repayment, which is a utility for using a road or toll, which Dars will also be able to collect from in 10, 15, 20 years or 25 years to service the repayment of this debt. That's why I am this amendment, which would mean slowing down the construction of highways, by no means, I can't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u231	Anybody else want to discuss this? The application procedure is ongoing. Dr. Slavinac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u232	Thank you very much. I find it very demagogotic to talk about slowing down the construction of motorways, because the content of the amendment is not in this at all. And I would never stand for such amendments to slow down the construction of motorways, especially now that the state has finally begun to repay the debt to Pomurje and is building roads towards Pomurje. This is about the rate of repayment of debts. See, if we are cutting back on debt now, I agree, from 25 years to 15 years, that it will be necessary to tighten the belt a little bit more each year. However, we have already heard in this National Assembly that the state is simply building roads to a greater extent on credit so that it can spend more elsewhere. And if we're building on credit, then let's make this thing as cheap as possible, so that we don't have to pay so much more interest on a slow payment. Certainly, the part of the money that we are spending now, not least for the reduction of public administration, which is bigger and bigger every year, is undoubtedly what the figures are talking about, to focus on paying less interest, and even earlier, the state budget will release for new investments, new investments that will - I hope that we all agree - are similarly geared towards faster development of the economy, which is undoubtedly the construction of motorways, railways and other infrastructures. Let me conclude by saying once again clearly and loudly, there is no way that the amendment is to slow down construction, but rather to pay off earlier and thus to make it cheaper to build these roads and to tighten the belt where it can be, and that the state will not waste needlessly, and ultimately all this financial burden will be passed on to the citizens, who must always pay in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u233	Mr. Christian Janc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to say a few things for the citizens. The road users will pay for it, won't they, Mr. Squeakl? But when we talk about saving the government, look, colleagues, let's reverse a little memory for a week when we were adopting the 2007 and 2008 budget. Your many amendments did not point to the austerity of this government, but rather to the contrary. How it changes from week to week, from day to day the opinions of individuals. I don't think that's the right thing to do. And after all, Dars will hire a loan. Dars is an economic society - right? - given her consent and credit guarantee by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And this Dars is going to repay this loan. However, he will repay it by collecting the toll, and from this title he will repay these credit instalments for those 25 years, as proposed in this law. And that's it. It's not taxpayers' money directly, but indirectly, if I understand it or the money of the users of the highway. I think we're talking completely different things that have nothing to do with it. It is good, however, that you have tabled this amendment, otherwise there could not be a debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u235	Thank you very much. It's a replica, Mr. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u236	Mr. Janc, it's not about giving an amendment to discuss. It's about showing how the government isn't cost-effective. In the meantime, when you spoke to Members and Members of Parliament, I went to the website of the New Ljubljana Bank and calculated a very simple difference between a 15-year-old and a 25-year-old loan for 100,000 euro loans or a 100 million euro loan. The difference is very simple. The calculation shows that if you borrow 100,000 Euros per 15 years, you will have a monthly meal of 858 Euros and you will pay 15 years and you will pay a total of 154,000 Euros of principal and interest. However, if you borrow the same 100,000 euros for 25 years, you will pay EUR 660 per month, but 25 years, so the total amount of €198,000 or €48.000 will be higher, or you will pay a third more if you extend the period. And we say nothing else, we say very simply, because the Government is borrowing 300 million euros here, there will be additional interest from this title for 150 million euros more, for 40 billion dollars more. To do calculations, to take into account interest rates, that's what we wanted on the parent's working body, that's what we wanted, such calculations, you said it wasn't necessary to discuss it this way. You don't want to discuss politics, you don't want to discuss numbers. Very simple. For 10 years longer than we propose, we will pay one third more principals and interest. And we work here, nothing but EEB business. [[?]] . Of course, Mr. Janc, but we need to be saved. But you don't have to explain here how we're going to give today's "release" to the government, any time in the next period, that it doesn't have to be returned by 2022, but it has to be returned by 2032. Dars, who borrows this, will have to raise the tolls accordingly because Dars will have to pay back these additional 150 million euros. To me, Mr Vidic, this would not be funny because the analysis commissioned by your Minister of Transport, such as Chief Darsa, this analysis anticipated the repayment of all credits by 2025, assuming that we would provide $40 billion annually from the state budget. Now that you haven't done it, we have such an extension. And this is the Balkan-Argentinian quasi fiscal secret funding of Dars.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Of course, the logic of this amendment is very simple, but everything that is simple is not necessarily the best. If we followed that logic, we would, of course, pay even less if it were 10 years, even less if it were 5 years and nothing, if we didn't rent a loan, we wouldn't have roads. By the way, let me say that all the mayors are not ready to accept Mr Cwickle's advice. If, for example, in a municipality with 2 billion budgets, we wanted to build a cleaning plant and everything else that belongs to sewerage, and it would cost about 2 billion tolars, then of course people would be very unhappy if the mayor suggested that it be built in 5 years or with a loan for one term. Because it wouldn't work, or the budget and the congregation would be scattered. It would be similar if we wanted to build apartments in this way, but we couldn’t do it again. Because we'd either blow up the budget or we wouldn't have any apartments. And if Members, who are also mayors by chance, listen to the advice of Mr Ciccle, we should certainly step down when people call them to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Mag. Squeak, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u240	Of course, everyone can check these numbers for themselves. This is a purely basic question: Is it a good long-term debt in the accounts, especially for projects such as Dars, or is it a good long-term debt in the case of municipal debt, especially when the project goes beyond the mandate of one mayor? I would, of course, like to see all these loans borrowed today, repaid by 2008, at the time of Mr Janez Janš's term of office. But that obviously doesn't work, so of course we had some relatively normal hands until the time of the rule of this government. And these deadlines ended the repayment of loans somewhere after 2020. An analysis of the Economic Institute of the Faculty of Law, some asked what we were talking about, discussed at the National Assembly, published at the Faculty of Economics, of course, delivered by the Minister of Christmas to the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances, and said that if this continues, we will be returning credits by 2060, 2070, despite the fact that we will have to raise tolls by 40% and, in the coming governments, increase the volume of money in the state budget. I think that before the Slovenian public today, the decision and dilemma is very simple: will the Members of the ruling coalition support the amendment that will make the government of the following mandates, whoever will put it together, make it more cost-effective in the other categories and ensure that Dars can return the credit for the construction of highways that we will borrow today in 15 years and not 25 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u241	Mr. Joseph Horvath. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Honorable representatives of the government! I just want to say one thing. Construction of the system of Slovenian motorways is not a matter of one mandate, nor is it a matter of several mandates, it is actually an investment of generations. Even if I look at the principles of honesty and justice, it seems right to point out that it is good to point out that all these credits will be repaid by those who will be driving on these highways. I hope, of course, that as happy as possible, according to this principle, if a person transports a kilometer and pays 2 tolars, the person who carries 2 kilometres must pay 4 tolars. Today, according to the data available to us, only two thirds of the tolls are "cassed". We've got a lot of spares here. This is the task of all of us to accelerate the construction of systems that will help to increase the uptake of toll cassation. I simply do not see any other way of dealing with the financing of the construction of the Slovenian motorway system. If we had already had the Public-Private Partnership Act, we would probably be talking a little differently today about financing Slovenian motorways. I support and support concretely this year's record ambitious road construction plan, which weighs about 170 billion Slovenian tolars. This is clearly what the Slovenian budget cannot bear. But it's the amendment itself. Yes, if I look back a little back into history, specifically the last guarantee law, I don't think I'm wrong about the government mags suggested. Toneta Ropa, in fact, had the same data in time. Even a commission run by a respected magician. I think she discussed a study a few months ago on the financial sustainability of the financing system for the construction of the Slovenian motorway system and found that the system is sustainable. I do not really have a headache in this matter now, but I stress once again, and I conclude that we must make a system of fair and fair tolling as soon as possible, so that in fact every mile on the highway will be paid by the person who transports it. And if, on the one hand, we now have the finances somehow secured, then I also call on the other ministries, which are responsible for urgently completing Slovenian highways, especially the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Environment and Space, to bring all ministries together, that is to say, the whole Government is actually coming together and the real goals that we have set ourselves, we really will achieve as soon as possible. I believe and see that efforts have been made, but everywhere we do not manage to realize our desire. Let me point out, there will be a meeting in Prekmurje on Monday for a joint monitoring committee on the construction of the foothills of the motorway, where we will assess how the construction of the suburban highway back is going on and we will clearly ask how the building permit for the entire Beltinci-Lendava section is. Thank you very much. Only from what I have said is that I will not support the amendment proposed by my colleagues from LDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u243	Mr. Martin Mikolitch, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u244	Thank you for your word. I would like to say myself that for me the construction of highways is also an intergenerational project. If the depreciation plan shows that we can repay this loan within 25 years, that's probably it. And the like amendment to propose, as proposed by the LDS House of Members, is, I may say, a little funny or I would ask the applicants, because no one would mind if, after 5, 6 or 8 years, it is found that this credit can be repaid first. Nobody defends this if then the financial situation on Dars or in the state budget ensures this. Why is he 25? Because of what has already been said by the considerable fellow Members of Parliament because we have other obligations, which we are very much talking about in this National Assembly. I would also agree that Comrade Squeakl should not lecture us on municipal loans or on the borrowing of municipal loans to those Members who are mayors. What was said was true of the hair. Many or, I will say, almost all municipalities in Slovenia decide on credits, and I will say a specific example of housing loans, where the repayment deadline was nowhere shorter than I know on the basis of the depreciation plan, 20, 25 years. So it's pure logic. This is also an intergenerational project carried out by the municipalities. We build an apartment, allow young families to get housing, or maybe a lot of young families in five, ten years, build a house, and this apartment is meant for the next. Where do we pay our obligations or our immunity? From rent. So these are also projects for which the municipal council also gives its consent or decides on the municipal council. And I've never heard a case where the municipal council would say, "No, for this project, but for this period of repayment we're not." And I am also looking at this project to build highways in a similar way and certainly there must be some intergenerational solidarity in these projects. And it is also right that the payment of this will be passed on to generations and certainly also to all Members who will be in different or otherwise, I would say, in the coming mandates, who will represent their citizens and citizens who are driving or will be driving on these motorways. That's why I'm certainly not going to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u245	The application procedure is ongoing. Mr. Christian Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u246	Thank you very much. There's only one thing I want to explain from this debate, and I'm not going to name anyone so that there won't be a replica again. In view of what the colleague has already said, why not for 5 years, why not for 2 years, because it may also be so, sir, it does not necessarily be 15 years. It's also 15 years old, is it calculated on the thumb, or is 15 real for some? So this is pure demagogy and purely embodiment of the opposition in this proposal, which I think is well founded. As far as the toll is concerned, you're already predicting an increase in the toll. That's not an argument, I'll say. Why? Once we finally collect a fair toll in Slovenia, then this money will be substantially more than it is today, and there will be no need to increase the toll. Thirdly, you also talked about the 2008 budget, the VAT increase. In your opinion, this will be "de facto" in 2008. Don't just think of something, it'll be when it is, and so on. That is why I do not think that such statements are correct and not in the context of this project, which I think is strongly supported by most Members in this National Assembly because it is as necessary for Slovenia as it needs water at home in the house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u247	Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u248	Thank you very much. With regard to this amendment, which, of course, I will not support, because I am aware of the importance of building motorways. The amendments, which are not thought-out, are baseless and destructive, of course I cannot support. I think that the designers, the designers of this project, have decided to build highways and guarantees as the best option. However, with regard to this amendment, I would like to ask whether this amendment still stands as an amendment to the LDS or if it represents only as an amendment by Mr Squeak. Yesterday and today, I observe an interesting differentiation that within LDS they are being fenced by extremists. Yesterday, Mr. Gaber fenced himself against Mrs. Shirce's impatience. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u249	Mr. Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u250	Yeah, yeah, wait, I gotta say this and today I see [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u251	Mr. Jerovšek, will you listen to me?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u252	Yeah, no, yeah. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u253	The amendment to Article 1 is under discussion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u254	That's what I'm talking about. Yeah, well, these are important political things. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u255	Do not name any Members who are not in the Hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u256	I have the right to name. Today, when dealing with such an important financial issue here, I do not see Mr Rope, nor Mr Lahovnik, who are also considered to be familiar with financial matters in the LDS, so I also see here some differentiation between the moderate and the extremes. In fact, would it be interesting to know whether the majority of LDS have been blocked from extremes in the financial field as well? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote, which is 5:30 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I interrupt this agenda item and interrupt the meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 5.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u258	Dear Members, both on the left and on the right and in the middle! Please, if you'll take your seats! Before making a decision, I ask you very much to check the operation of the voting device. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a road transport law. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 3. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 5. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. (There were 61 votes in favour.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. I'd like to ask nicely. [[...]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 7. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 12. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 13. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 14. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give my word to the bill-maker. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the third session of the Road Transport Act be held at the same meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Dr. Verlich. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 6. (For the vote was 58.)(against 6.) I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law on Tuesday 28 November 2006 in the framework of the votes. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the adoption of the amendment and an article to which the amendment has been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Safety Act after the shortening of the procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Safety Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 1. (For the vote was 65.)(against 1.) I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to agenda number four. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the vote on the Proposal for a Law supplementing the law on social security for Slovenian citizens entitled to pensions from the former SFRJ will be held on Tuesday, 28 November 2006, in the framework of the votes. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of LDS and SD to Article 1. We're voting. [[It's an ad from the hall.]] I'm calling off the vote. I am opening the application procedure for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr Ljubo Germič, on behalf of the LDS delegation, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u261	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is now up to us to decide whether we will be able, with the support of the amendment that we will now vote on, to bridge the gap that we have made by adopting the existing and now existing law and by proposing the law that is on the table today. So whether we can bridge the fact that we will say that we have two kinds of citizens who are suffering from asbestos exposure, that those who have been exposed to the workplace have one right, but those who have been unaware of the environment or are exposed to asbestos have no rights. Here, colleagues and colleagues, I would point out that this law was adopted in 1996 by consensus of all Members and Members. At that time, we made the law to put out the most acute cause, so we restructured the industry that worked with asbestos. Today, we are upgrading this law for the second time and correcting the mistake that the Council of State has already warned us about, which has allowed the veto to vote again on the law currently in force. We didn't follow reasonable explanations. We can correct the mistake that the President of the Republic of Slovenia has warned us to guarantee in Slovenia the same rights to all those who have suffered harm for the same reason. Colleagues and colleagues, it is difficult to say more than a year of long debate. I hope that, with arguments, we have been able to make this amendment a clear message that even if the Government makes a mistake, if, for reasons of possible unthinkable and at a certain point, the Government also has outstanding programme issues that it has itself, we can go over the Government in Parliament and enforce a law that, of course, puts citizens and citizens in a position of equal application of the same rights. We have this decision ahead of us and allow me to express my optimism that together we will be able to find that support for this amendment has been expressed in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In order to develop the disease due to asbestos exposure, the patient did not necessarily work at the workplace where it was exposed to asbestos, but could have been contacted by asbestos due to the daily presence in the environment where asbestos was used. This is the basic content of our amendment to Article 1 of this Act. Furthermore, given the fact that in certain cases the settlement procedure with the sick cannot be completed, it would be necessary to continue to communicate with the affected heirs. We would also like to legislate this amendment to Article 1. We also introduce a database of personal data for asbestos exposed persons, which is a good basis for carrying out preventive diagnostics and thus reducing cancer patients. Now you have, respected colleagues and colleagues, in particular, I am speaking to fellow Members and Members of the Coalition, a nice opportunity to take a step forward to extend the content of this law not only to those who have suffered from asbestos exposure and have suffered from mesothelioma, but also to all those who have suffered from other forms of asbestos disease, so that we would actually extend the law now not only to those workers who have been exposed in the production process to the dangerous effects of asbestos dust, but also to take into account the environmental aspect of exposure, it is said that we will also include those who have lived in the area of production facilities. They're not that small. Here is not only the Sorska Valley, here are near Ljubljana, Medvod, then there is Maribor and also the Trebovlje swimming pool, also Izolo we mentioned and its shipyard, so it is definitely an all-Slovenian problem. And that. The problem will begin to occur more and more over so many years, as the latent period to outbreaks of any asbestos disease is very long and we expect a higher incidence around 2020 in Slovenia. It is therefore appropriate that this amendment, with the support of this amendment, should also include this environmental aspect and the people who have become sick. So I would ask you to accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u264	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate, an explanation for the vote of Members and Members. Check-in is on. Mr. Magg has the word. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u265	Thank you very much. The current law also gives rights to those employees who have not had them under the 1996 law, and this law is already good at it. The current novelty also builds solutions in this law on all those who have suffered from the worst form of disease, namely mesothelioma, in the field of the whole of Slovenia. Why don't I support this amendment? For two main reasons in particular. The first reason is the register introduced by this amendment, because this register speaks of all those exposed to asbestos. We are practically all inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia, because we are all once or still drinking water from asbestos water pipes. In most cases our houses have been covered with asbestos cover, and this means that virtually all the inhabitants of this proposal can be members of this register. What does it mean to be infected with asbestos in the registry, but it is likely that only those who are already sick behind asbestos can imagine it. I would agree that this register would talk about the patients due to asbestos diseases, and maybe this thing would support it. Another reason why I cannot support this amendment is that it introduces the definition of the environment very widely. What the environment is, no one in the National Assembly knows, because as soon as we place a definition of the environment around a factory, someone who falls out of this environment will be able to get sick very quickly. Such a solution would certainly be discriminatory in the law. I will not personally support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u266	Mr. Magg has the word. It's bad luck. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u267	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support this amendment, because it is too much of an extension of rights, matters are not manageable with regard to such extended rights. Just think that, given that this amendment states that in all companies where asbestos or asbestos were used or stored, the environment has the right to determine first and then to seek redress or health effects. We know that in all stores there were asbestos panels, asbestos covers, all stores in Slovenia, practically in almost every settlement. Asbestos also stored in various buildings, not only in the premises of companies, but also in temporary places. Practically as already mentioned, we were all in some way in contact as neighbours or - even this is poorly defined - or as temporary passers-bys. There is no way in which we can continue to extend the extended right to cancer in such a well-defined law. I think that experience must first show what would actually be justified. I will oppose this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u268	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. The application for explanations of vote shall be pending. Mr. Joseph Scholch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u269	Thank you very much. I will support these amendments myself, and I also understand them as a necessary condition so that marriage can be supported. I fear that the rejection of these amendments would lead those affected by this law to the reassurance of the State Council and others to return to a circle with a veto again in the National Assembly. I believe that, at a time when the spirit of Minister Drobnik no longer frightens the Ministry responsible for this area, it is only possible to accept these amendments and allow the potentially open issues to be addressed in this Supplement to the third reading in a reasonable manner. But it's certainly not true that it spreads to everyone who went past the asbestos plate. It extends to the vicinity of buildings where asbestos or asbestos is processed and stored; and it is cumulatively found that this environment is contaminated. This is not the case, therefore, that even Slovenia could be referred to as an endangered area, but it will be determined where the processing facilities were and where the contaminated environment is located in the vicinity of these facilities. Only from there will the rights of the affected people flow, including through the assistance of the relevant commissions. In short, not fooling people and scaring people that it's all about Slovenia and the whole population, but it's someone reasonable. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u271	Respected and esteemed! I will support this amendment because this amendment also brings back what was promised in March this year, when the law now in force was passed. At that time, DeSUS was promised that the law would be amended immediately, only to supplement it, which would regulate all these matters and also include those patients who were not in contact with asbestos in the working process, but who were in contact with asbestos because they lived in the vicinity of the plants where it was processed, stored, produced asbestos products. We've heard two stories before about how we'll all be able to claim compensation. You know, for someone to be able to claim compensation, they're gonna have to get sick first, that's it. And these patients, at least as far as they can tell, are not so much to cause, I don't know what burden for the state budget. This was also discussed by representatives of the Ministry. It's not even about that story anymore, but it's just prestige. But how this law has been cheated all this time from March to now, and it has been moved not to harm the local elections, not to harm, I don't know who, but apparently the first political victim is the asbestos party DeSUS, which has worked very hard to get it through, and its partners have cheated on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u272	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u273	Thank you for your word. I will support all amendments aimed at ensuring rights for patients with different types of asbestos, not only mesothelioma, who were not exposed to asbestos during their work in a particular company, but also because of the presence of asbestos fibres in the environment in which they lived or live. I have to say that it seems pointless to me to talk about whether asbestos can cause asbestos on the roof or whether asbestos causes asbestos in the water pipes. This indicates that those Members who constantly repeat these statements do not know the basic truths about asbestos and what is actually asbestos in what cases asbestos causes. And for this reason, I think it is important to bear in mind that it does not matter what environment someone has lived in, whether it is close to the factory or far from the factory. It is important that a person who suffers from asbestososis is found to be asbestosic, that the Commission, which is also mentioned in the amendment, recognises, and then treats such a person appropriately, as is the case with those who have suffered from asbestos.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Just Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u275	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. There is no fear that there will be irresistible financial consequences when this amendment is adopted. Based on long-term monitoring and disease statistics from 1982 onwards, a total of 223 patients are expected to suffer from environmental exposure to asbestos between 2007 and 2010. Between 18 and 22 cancer patients per year or 34 to 37 patients for any other asbestos disease. And if this is financially assessed under the current law, then within four years we would spend just under 700 million tolars to implement this law. Once again, I would like to reiterate that you have been able to vote for more than one billion amendments to the budget with very easy hands for just one year. And there's something else I'd like to say. It has been said that only this new law, which was passed in March this year in the National Assembly, can all those exposed to asbestos in other companies exercise rights, not only in Salonito Anhovo. This is simply not true, since from 1998 to 2003 a professional disease was verified in Salonito Anhovo, Termika, Donit, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and also in some other companies in Slovenia that used asbestos. [[...]] So let's do [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Only now, if we adopt this amendment to this Act to Article 1, do we step forward and actually extend the content of this Act only now. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac. Please, what would you like?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u277	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u278	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u279	You must have heard someone else. I said [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u280	No, no, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u281	And I said thank you for your word. I'd like a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u282	Please explain the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u283	Of course, in view of the very fine content of the law and the amendment before us, given the nature of the decision when we decide on this amendment, I ask that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, 30 minutes' rest be ordered before the vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u284	Thank you very much for your proposal. This concludes the procedure for explanations of vote. And we'll resume the session at 6:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u285	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our meeting of the National Assembly. Does the Slovenian Nationalist Party's parliamentary group want a word? Excuse me. Does the Slovenian National Party Group want a word? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u286	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Whatever you will call us, believe that we think well in our hearts: nationalists, national socialists, Slovenian National Party, whatever you will call us, believe that we think well of the nation in our hearts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u287	I can ask you to explain what you have to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u288	Absolutely. Everyone who laughed when I took a break. I hope your vacation came in handy, I think it was too short, two more hours, three days or a week's rest, so you can separate between life and death. That's what we're talking about today. That's what this amendment is about. And if that doesn't erase your smile from your lips, I'm sorry if you can laugh at people who have asbestos caused death, disease, or any other inconvenience. There will be no doubt that we have taken advantage of the business opportunity on vacation because we do not know how to vote on this amendment, we will be very pleased to support the amendment. We took a vacation because one thing happened in this country this afternoon, which could be said to be one moment, but somehow no longer corresponds to what this law says. Mr President of the Government said he did not trust the Minister, who was supposed to defend this law. However, I am very interested in whether the Government of the Republic of Slovenia continues to support such a "non-bullying" law and whether or not the Government of the Republic of Slovenia still opposes such important amendments as give these people the chance of a better short life, but a better short life than only a short one. This is very important information. Is it even possible that such nonsense as you are presenting in this law is the reason why the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs was at the disposal of the Prime Minister? These are very important questions, which I think require an answer, because it seems to me that this happened before the decision on the asbestos law when we are talking about life and death, but perhaps the position is no longer the same and the minister will also be shot down.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u289	Thank you very much, Mr. Zagorac. If we knew the Rules of Procedure, then we'd know that representatives can't answer your questions right now. No further discussion, please. Mr. Jerovšek, what do you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u290	Mr Vice President, there is one very important thing I want to clear up. I hope I heard Mr Zagorec correctly when he said: we nationalists, we national socialists. And I want to make it clear, because this is a very important thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u291	Please, I apologize for earlier because when a man leads like this, sometimes something escapes. But I don't think that was intentional, so I'm asking you not to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u292	If he denied it, but if that were the case, then he'd be very careful. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u293	The debate is closed and we are moving on to a decision. What would you like, please, Mr. Pache?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u294	Your Honors are here! Regardless of what any of the Members or Members of Parliament think, the fact is that Prime Minister Janez Janša today expressed his distrust of the past work. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u295	This is not a procedural question, Mr Pece. I think you know this Rules of Procedure. Please don't make this difficult for me. We're closing the debate. We have concluded the debate and are moving on to a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u296	We have the position of the Government, we have the position of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which we do not know if it is harmonised.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u297	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. Before I say this, if the amendment is not adopted, all the remaining amendments become irrelevant. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 38. (For the vote was 27.)(against 38.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I've already warned you that all the other amendments put forward are irrelevant. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading, no amendments could be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. That is why we are moving on to an explanation of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. I request an application on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr Sok, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Sorry, sorry, it happens. I looked over the screen, saw Mr Bevik, and Mr Aloise Sok was written below. Excuse me, Mr. Bevk, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u298	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! By rejecting the amendment to Article 1 of the Law, the government coalition missed the last opportunity to adopt the law and to look into the eyes of all those who were affected and who were sick because of asbestos. In the Socialist Group of Members, we believe that the applicable Act on the Elimination of the Implications of Work with asbestos should be supplemented and coordinated with the social partners and the medical profession. I'm afraid that didn't happen. The attempt of the four members of the coalition parties has also failed. With all the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democrats and the Club of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, which has been in the process since May, there is nothing left on the home board of the fully vilified law and the rejection of all amendments of the Group of the Social Democrats and the Club of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. That is why we cannot support him in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Mr Aloise Sok on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u300	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to say briefly that we will support the marriage in our parliamentary group. However, in view of the objective information given to the public, I have little to correct with regard to the previously announced members of the Slovenian National Party: this bill is not a proposal from the Government, but rather a proposal from a group of Members with the first-signed France Žnidaršič. So, of course, this has nothing to do with what they wanted to insinuate earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u302	Dear Vice President! I'm glad you used a shortcut this time. From this place I have to warn you and ask you for an apology for appointing the Slovenian National Party Group 'nationalist' party. I sincerely hope that you will gain so much pride and make an apology. Otherwise, I believe that, in the future, the meeting will be held, that your party will be called very negative by the presidents. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the matter of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're not talking about authorship. However, we all know that the intervention in this law by the Government and by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has been enormous. And given that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its opinion, stated that it would not object to the proposal if the proposers clearly defined the criteria for the recognition of rights to the surrounding population. We also know that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has taken a completely different position from this title. That is why we are interested, especially at the moment that came today, that even the President of the Government distances himself from the work of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, that is Minister Drobnic, or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia continues to defile the law in the form that it is now in third reading. Mr President, if in a given situation, i.e. before the third hearing, the Legislative and Legal Service can answer my question, what is the position of the competent Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia before the third hearing to the amendments that have been released, and to the draft law that has come into the procedure under its basic form. In any case, Mr President, I sincerely hope that you will apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u303	Mr. Pache, two things. I don't usually take offense in my conduct. On many occasions, though, I hear quite offensive things on this side. For what I have been missing, lapsus, I sincerely apologize to you, the entire parliamentary group, if you ask me to do so, but at the same time I will be very careful in the future, what your attitude will be to all other Members, including me. Second. We are no longer in the debate phase, Mr Pece, so I cannot implement your proposal and ask the Legislative and Legal Commission what you asked me. We're moving on. Mr Ljubo Germič on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u304	Thank you for your word. Indeed, the law on which we are going to vote has not been submitted by the Government for consideration. Why was it submitted by members of the coalition? The fundamental question and the answer to this question are given in the text on the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the submission of this law. Members write: "Let us assume that there is no excuse to share the asbestos exposure to those who have been affected by exposure to work exposure and to those who have lived in the vicinity of the asbestos production plants." This has been written down by the Members, the signatories to this law. Today we can ask ourselves, colleagues and colleagues, because many times today's repeated familiar fact from this afternoon that the Government has, of course, made a law that no longer inspires confidence with the President of the Government on the side of the Secretary-General, that is a fact. Today, then, we ask ourselves whether the new law follows the record of the assessment of the situation for the proposal of this law? We can tell that's not true. This law does not guarantee equal rights, nor does it compensate for the damage to the affected or destroyed health of the population exposed to asbestos. It does not provide sufficient social security for the sick, it creates differences where the sick cannot be entitled to equal rights for the same reason. The law does not guarantee the right to compensation for the heirs of deceased persons. For all of this, because of the fact that the Members who have proposed the text of this law, of course, we expect them not to implement support for such a law, which goes contrary to what they have assessed as necessary for this law to be amended, which was adopted as a mistake at the beginning of this year, so, of course, we cannot support this law in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u305	Please. Check-in is on. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u306	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I believe in the good purpose of the proposalr, at least in the part where I got the marriage, I will say, in that draft work ahead of me and the proposaler has taken into account almost everything that we have warned opposition Members in addressing the government proposal of the law. He also took this environmental aspect into account, which is why we stress it, and then there was a strange conversion; a strange conversion first by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, when it came first with a negative attitude, and then with the view that the law should be vilified. And today we have one skeleton, one skeleton, which, in fact, improves what we accepted a year ago, but it's like putting paper on a field, only those who see well would notice nuances; probably I wouldn't, because I have glasses. However, I must say that I am very concerned, Mr President, but this is what I am really worried about - the conduct of some of the government Members who are doing some grimas here, reading democracy and not knowing what to do with themselves when we are talking about life and death, respected gentlemen, because it is no different. I don't care if you read Sunday or whatever you want, but not when we're talking about life and death. There's no sneezing in place either. Turn back, look at the balcony and nod, then nod, never sooner or never later. But life and death are sacred, and I think so for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u307	Mr. Willie Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u308	Thank you very much. In the DeSUS Group of Members, we were the initiators of that law, which should bring as many rights to the injured as possible. That is why we have made an effort and have also made a meeting with the Prime Minister and have received certain assurances that there will be possible participation in the preparation and enforcement of this law. Later it turned out that the coalition was not in favour of all our proposals, and we gave up to this extent so that at least something remained and that some might be able to table amendments. The amendments were tabled, but no hope. When it is found that we were DeSUS Members for the amendment, when we can find that some other members of the coalition parties were "yes" in such a way that at least they did not vote against it, we find that there is more than half of the LDS missing, he is not here to support his amendment; and this is what is duplicity - to appoint something for a fatal problem, but not to be able to come here and vote for his amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u309	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. Check-in is on. Mr. Magg has the word. Capuder. No, no, no. Mr. Joseph Scholch. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u310	Thank you very much. I will vote against such a law and regret that my colleagues are no longer here. However, I cannot be surprised that there is no law-maker here, Mr Žnidaršič, who has promised a solution for the entire National Assembly. He is probably, as his colleagues, ashamed that things have turned out the way they are, and today he is not taking part in this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u312	Thank you very much. I have before me right now the amendment of colleague William Rezman. Colleague Willi Rezman is also signed as co-proposer under the law, which is now confirmed in the amended form at present in third reading. And under this amendment, allow me to read it, it is written down, Comrade Willy Rezman, who has tabled his amendment to his marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u313	There is no further discussion of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u314	Allow me, but this is also a condition that I would like to point out in the context of the full explanation of the law. I'm not going to read the amendment, I'm just going to read a sentence from an explanation that's very important, believe me. "The conclusions adopted by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons stress that the drafters of the law should comply with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We therefore believe," said Rezman further, "that perhaps the deletion of the right proposed in that article would be justified." It is clear from this that coordination with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under this Act was in terms of the deletion of rights, the deletion of the content of the law itself. How can it be said that such a law is good, that such a law follows or contains the rights of all who should be included in that law? No matter what happens, I'm sorry to nod and support this marriage. It was supported only because it gave minimum rights, more than the government law you forced twice in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u315	Thank you very much. I'd like to make one comment. Dear colleague Žnidaršič is absent due to health problems. We're moving on to decision-making. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 3. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 19th item of the agenda - deals with the Proposal for a Law on Consent and Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the liabilities of the loan leased by Dars, d.d., to the European Investment Bank for the project of Slovenian motorways, urgent procedure. We are continuing with a second reading of the bill's proposal, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, on the basis of a review of the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 1. We're voting. 62 Members and Members voted for 11 to 45. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading, no amendments could be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Legal and Legal Service and the Government have not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting on the law. There were 64 votes in favour and 55 against 5. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. We are moving on to a follow-up to item 5 of the agenda - the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Public-Private Partnership. On Tuesday 21 November 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been adopted to the amended proposal, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving on to a decision on the law. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, I inform you that I have not been warned by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that, due to the unconformity of the amendments adopted on the home working body, the law-and-laws law would not be harmonised. In doing so, the LDS parliamentary group announced obstruction in the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 8. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 6th item of the agenda - the third is the proposal for a law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services. On Tuesday 21 November 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, there is no possibility to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure. With regard to the harmonisation of the law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u316	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Government has drawn up the harmonisation amendments resulting from the non-compliance between the Public Procurement Act and the Public Procurement Act in the water, energy, transport and postal services fields due to the adoption of amendments on the home labour body, namely Articles 2, 8, 25, 38, 41, 58, 59, 61, 63, 67, 91, 99, 100, 104, 110, 111 and 112. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u317	Thank you very much. The usual replacement of the Presidency took place. Thank you, Mr. Clavori, for your guidance. And we're moving on. Since the representative of the Government warned that after the third reading of the bill due to the amendments adopted, the Government had prepared the harmonisation amendment or amendments you had received on the bench. Do Members and Members want to speak about the harmonisation amendments? They don't want to. Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 2. We're voting. 61 Members and Members present, 52 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] Which means that this harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 8. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 25. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 50 votes against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] We vote on the harmonisation amendment to Article 38. The vote is under way. There are 56 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] We decide on the harmonisation amendment to Article 41. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 48 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] We vote on the harmonisation amendment to Article 58. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 49 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] Which means the amendment was adopted. We vote on the harmonisation amendment to Article 59. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 48 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] We vote on the harmonisation amendment to Article 61. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 44 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] We decide on the harmonisation amendment to Article 63. We're voting. Thank you. There are 47 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] We decide on the harmonisation amendment to Article 67. We're voting. Thank you very much. We must repeat the vote because of indiscretion. I ask that those who have not voted take your seats and allow the meeting to continue. We are re-voting the harmonisation amendment to Article 67. Thank you. There are 50 Members and Members present, 48 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] We vote on the harmonisation amendment to Article 91. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] We vote on the harmonisation amendment to Article 99. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] Which means this amendment has also been adopted. We vote on the harmonisation amendment to Article 100. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] This amendment has also been adopted. We vote on the harmonisation amendment to Article 104. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the harmonisation amendment to Article 110. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 111. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the last harmonisation amendment to Article 112. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] All the harmonisation amendments are accepted. We are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing the 6th item of the agenda. We are moving on to the 7th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the Proposal for a Public Procurement Act, EPA 1029-IV. On Tuesday 21 November 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the bill-maker, that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. With regard to the harmonisation of the law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u318	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! In this law too, the Government has drawn up harmonisation amendments resulting from inconsistencies between the Water, Energy, Transport and Postal Procurement Act due to the adoption of amendments on the home labour body. This is how the Government proposes harmonisation amendments under Articles 110, 115 and 116. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-23-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u319	Thank you very much. We've got a pack again, but there are significantly fewer harmonisation amendments. First, we have the harmonisation amendment to Article 110. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. (For the vote was 51.)(No one opposed.) The amendment was accepted. We decide on the harmonisation amendment to Article 115. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] This amendment has also been adopted. All the amendments have been adopted and we are now deciding on the law as a whole. We're voting. I am revoking the vote just made because we still have the harmonisation amendment to Article 116. I'm sorry. First, we are voting on the harmonisation amendment to Article 116. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] We are voting again on the law as a whole. I apologize for this slip. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. (For the vote was 51.)(Nobody.) The bill was adopted. I'm closing this agenda item. We are moving on to the 8th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal of the Banking Act, EPA 1090 /IV. On Tuesday 21 November 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, and therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving on to a decision on the law. I have just been informed that the Legislative and Legal Service has informed us that the law has been uncoordinated due to the amendments adopted, so the Government has also prepared the harmonisation amendments that you already have on the table. I shall put all the harmonisation amendments to Article 339, Article 350, Article 409.a, Article 409.b and Article 414 into a possible debate. Obviously there is no debate, then we will vote on each amendment individually. First, on the amendment to Article 339. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the harmonisation amendment to Article 350. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 59 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We vote on the harmonisation amendment to Article 409. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 59 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. The amendment to Article 409.b follows. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 57 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Finally, the harmonisation amendment to Article 414. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 52 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] All the harmonisation amendments, including these, have been adopted. And now a full vote on the law. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 54 votes in favour, none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] Which means the law was passed. I'm closing this agenda item. And we are moving on to the 10th item of the agenda - this is to the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Restrictive Measures introduced or implemented by the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the legal acts and decisions adopted by international organisations, EPA 1073 /IV. On Tuesday, 21 November this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, and therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving on to a decision on the law. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, I inform you that I have not been warned by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that, due to the unconformity of the amendments adopted on the home working body, the law-and-laws law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] Which means the bill has been adopted. I'm closing this agenda item. We are moving on to the 11th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Engineering Academy of Slovenia, EPA 1077-IV. Here too, on Tuesday, 21 November of this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of the proposed law. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly decided, on the proposal of the law's proponents, that, on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, it would be today that the third reading of the bill would take place. And we are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled. As we see from the review of 23.11., there is only one person who has been tabled by the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, and I am putting it to the debate. This is an amendment to Article 3. Anybody want to talk? I can see no one. I conclude the debate and put this amendment to the vote as well. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 54 votes in favour, none against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] Which means that the amendment to Article 3 has been adopted. We have ended our decision-making on amendments or amendments. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the law would not be inconsistent with the amendments or amendments adopted. That is why we can move to a full vote on the law. I can see that there are no declared explanations of vote, which is why we are voting. Thank you very much. I note that there are 58 Members and Members present, 54 votes in favour, none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] Which means the law was passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And have a nice and pleasant evening. I am adjourning the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow morning at 10 a.m. Good night.
