ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear Members and honourable Members! We begin the 18th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The meeting was convened on the basis of Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Anderlič, Roberto Battelli, Sam Bevk, Franc [[Ferry]] Horvath, mag. Branko Grims, Miran Jerič, Joseph Jerovšek, Aurelio Yuri, Mag. Janez Kramberger, Miro Petek, Alojz Posedel, mag. Majda Potrata, Maria Possonec, Dr. Matija Slavinec, Matjaž Švagan and Janko Weber from 3 p.m. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the first item, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda and the representative of the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia to the 15th item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 18th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting on 9 June 2006. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We move on to a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. The Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group proposes to withdraw from the agenda a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, the second dealing. You received a motion for withdrawal by letter dated 16 June 2006. Would you like a representative of the motions to withdraw? Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. What is important is that the law on employment and unemployment insurance is inconsistent. It is not coordinated with the social partners and is also not coordinated within the development partnership. Let me remind you, dear colleagues and colleagues, that this is the first of the laws in the context of the so-called social economic reforms. I hope you are aware that if you confirm or continue to adopt a law in such an uncoordinated form that you will not only violate an agreement that, last but not least, Prime Minister Janez Janša has mentioned nothing in the context of forming a partnership for development, an agreement that, in the so-called Partnership for Development project, the government will seek coordination between partners, constant coordination, and that, finally, it will prepare and adopt laws with the greatest possible consensus with the social partners. Let me remind you that the law in its basic form, in the form in which it was incorporated into the National Assembly or in the parliamentary procedure, has been coordinated with the social partners, including students, but has been modified by coalition parties with numerous amendments, despite clear warnings from the opposition despite opposition from the social partners, despite opposition from the affected parties, students. And as long as we continue to work as we have seen at the home work of this national assembly, we can in fact say quickly that the words of the Prime Minister on quality laws in the context of reforms are unfortunately, hand to heart, sand to the eyes. Sand in the eyes of all Members and Members, and of course also citizens and citizens. Another fact I would like to point out is that Minister Drobnic said in a public statement on 6 June 2006 that he would support solutions, such solutions within the framework of the law as they were in line with the social partners. Today, unfortunately, the law is uncoordinated and despite the calls of the social partners, students to the Prime Minister, the day after the meeting of the labour force, the government has not responded despite calls for further coordination. At this point, I ask you to support the proposal to withdraw from the agenda of this meeting of this Act and to give the possibility, after further coordination, that, after all, the law will be as we wish: coordinated and good, good for all who are being pursued by this Act. This is a law on employment and unemployment insurance.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u3	Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Here you go, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian Democratic Group, we believe that there is no valid reason for this item to be withdrawn. This law, which has already had its first treatment on the labour market, has contributed with many amendments to important changes, we believe it is good and will make an important contribution in such a form to improving the labour market. We are also convinced that it is necessary to provide funding for the grant fund as soon as possible. Here I would also like to draw attention to the following fact that we have dealt with and also adopted a number of amendments on the home working body, which were co-signed or co-signed by colleagues and colleagues from the Social Democratic Party. Twelve such amendments were adopted, and two of us accepted such amendments as they themselves had tabled. We believe that coordination by the social partners has also been great, but those amendments that we have adopted have been due to a number of comments, suggestions also at the general hearing where we have considered this law, and we have taken many of these suggestions into account. We believe, once again, that this law is good, that it is right to adopt it as soon as possible and that it will also take effect and contribute to improving the labour market and also to providing funding for the grant fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u5	Thank you. Mr. Potts, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Members and Members of the Social Democrats support the proposal to withdraw the law on insurance and employment in the event of unemployment from the agenda. This is the only opportunity to reconsider the content of the proposed solutions, which are contrary to the social partners and, in particular, to the clear views of the student organisation, to find a better solution. The government coalition, after the majority of the solutions have been aligned with the social partners, I must also say to our party - not everything, but the majority - in the proposal for a law with completely new solutions without being prepared to coordinate these solutions with Parliament, with the majority in Parliament, and even less with student organisations. They have come up with a proposal to practically prevent student organisations from financing an important part of their activities in the future, and if the solutions proposed by the government coalition are adopted today, we may be in a position to be in a very short time in which student organisations will be without funds for activities that are relevant to sport, culture, education, amateur activities and the like, financed by student organisations. Our firm belief is that, after proposing a solution, it is not good, but we especially believe that the decisions taken by the ruling coalition on a proposal from the Minister responsible for work, family and social affairs bring harm to the social partners and parliamentary parties overnight, without agreement, without a thorough consideration of what they actually mean to all of us. I expect, on behalf of MEPs and Members of the Social Democrats, that the ruling coalition will reconsider these proposals and that the decision on this issue will be submitted to the next meeting once these issues have been evaluated in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u8	Respectable present. We have more than 70 tax and social policy laws ahead of us on the basis of a coalition agreement and, above all, on the basis of the so-called Partnership for the Development of Tax and Social Policy. Today the National Assembly is meeting for the first time with a law on social policy, and it is a pity that the National Assembly, as a legislative branch of government in this area, would for the first time be concerned. For the first time, he has taken up the Government's proposal and I fear that he will also take up the proposal of the ruling majority in the framework of the National Assembly for the first time. The National Party's proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda mainly seeks to ensure that the law itself, i.e. the Employment and Insurance Act in the case of the unemployed, is harmonised and, above all, the green light in the case or in agreement with the social partners. However, I am afraid that the second objective pursued within the framework of the National Party will also not receive sufficient support. Ladies and gentlemen, by the ruling majority, I ask you, hand to heart, very frankly: "Do you not feel ashamed to try to achieve a kind of consensus in the framework of the government consensus with the social partners, after this consensus has been agreed upon, with the so-called partners of the Partnership for Development, and later when this law is visibly coordinated with the social partners and with the partners in the process, you try to mine it through amendments within the framework of the coalition or the ruling majority?" According to our assessment, the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group estimates that this mode of action is not only for the first time not only in favour of our country, the democratic Republic, the Republic of Slovenia, but primarily not in favour of you, gentlemen of the ruling majority, who in this way want to play very easily, to play the social partners in a very low way. And to promise something at that highest level, i.e. within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to reach consensus with them, later to reach consensus within the framework of the so-called Partnership for Development and later to push them - and not to say what and where - through the parliamentary procedure. According to my assessment and according to the National Party's assessment, it is reasonable to support the withdrawal by allowing parliamentary groups to contact the social partners and the social partner to ensure what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not wish or lied to them. We therefore appeal to all or all Members present and Members of Parliament to support the withdrawal proposal proposed by the National Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u9	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u10	On behalf of the Group of Members. We support the withdrawal of this law; in the end, we also proposed this on the home labour body when the government, on behalf of Members, played this law. The first hearing was agreed, the second hearing was played, the social partners were played, the student organisation was played, the government council for student issues was played, and perhaps development partners. But we can't get rid of the impression that it's more than just a fake act of this law, but that it's an attempt to destabilise and abolish the autonomy of student organisations, which obviously the government and the ruling coalition would like to punish for their publicity. I doubt the students will agree to this sentence, so there may be unrest and constitutional disputes. Is that worth it, a respected coalition? No, you don't! It should be reconsidered and aware that student organisations should be understood as partners in the country, other institutions, in particular in the field of student social, culture, study activities, legal advice, financing of societies, disabled persons, student families and so on. However, if you think it is smarter to destabilize and abolish a student network involving more than 180,000 students and students, to eliminate or discipline students' media and cultural social scene, then it is worth considering the responsibility of the government or the competent ministry. This should calculate the consequences with which such insufferable ease is played, and should also take into account the Law on the Community of Students, which discusses the compulsory participation of students in all matters. However, given that it literally excites on this and with a fig tree in its pocket proposes solutions that are shamefully respected by the coalition, I hope that sobriety will prevail and that you will vote against the violent treatment of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members and Members! We will not support this proposal in New Slovenia. We are convinced that this law brings a lot of innovation in the labour market. One of the biggest ones is that in Slovenia we will have multiple scholarships in the future, and this is what students who want to study and get to their profession as soon as possible want. The withdrawal of this proposal from the agenda is, of course, no solution, but it is only an extension of this, I could say, an intolerable state that we have in this area. Of course, you're a student organisation, or rather, if we call it what they call it, student officials don't want any change in this area. They continue to want to have high wages, they want what the country has already accepted and what will also be in future, free studies, and so on. Of course they want as much student work as possible, free food - we also have this arranged in this country. It is interesting that they also want free transportation, which is also supported by the President of the Free Trade Unions, Mr Semolic. But we can ask ourselves if our Slovenian workers, who are making a lot of money for minimum wages, will be able to do all of this. If the state cancels on student work to taxes, then it is only right that this income, this part of the funds, should also be allocated to where they belong most, that is, to increase the number of scholarships. You're saying that social partners and student organisations have been played. Personally and in Novi Slovenija we cannot agree with this. However, those who think they can adopt laws in this country, such as student organisations or their officials or union officials, should propose different legislation and withdraw this competence from the National Assembly. We have received such a law as the Ministry has harmonised, but it is true that Members of the ruling coalition have tabled certain amendments to this law and we will continue to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u13	Thank you. Before we go to the vote, please ask the Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, which means the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. There's no explanation for the voice, gentlemen. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 40. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. We are moving on to proposals to expand the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda be extended by a group of 20 Members to decide on the decision of the College to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the revision of public procurement procedures, EPA 890, following a regular procedure. You received the proposal for enlargement by letter dated 15 June 2006. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? No, no, no. We're moving on to-- excuse me, Mr. Rope, excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have before us a proposal to extend the agenda by means of a law supplementing the law on the revisions of public procurement procedures. This is a proposal that we have considered at the College of the National Assembly. I would like to remind you that, after a college, we have adopted a broad discussion in order to reject the proposal for this law to be adopted in accordance with an urgent procedure. We have adopted the proposal that we all take time together, such as the National Assembly, the parliamentary groups, Members, the coalition and the opposition, and, of course, the government, to re-examine the solutions proposed in this law. We are convinced that the solutions in this law are inoperable, that they are bad, that they are surprising and, above all, very difficult to understand. I would like to point out that the proposal for this Act correctly lists the international comparison of similar systems in the world. [[Austria, Germany, United Kingdom]] And I'm asking you to take a look at these solutions that are presented here. What is surprising is that none of these solutions are proposed by the government as a solution for Slovenia. She invented her solution, invented a non-European solution, invented, if you want, a solution that actually allows political control over the procurement revision system to the full. Indeed, no EU Member State is aware of such a thing, only one country in Europe knows it, it is Macedonia, and it is under pressure to change its law. With such a solution to come to the point where we carry out some 500 billion such transactions through public procurement in Slovenia, when we have and are supposed to have problems with 500 million due to problems at one of the ministries, because of problems and incompetence within one system, I find it totally inappropriate, especially when we are listening at the same time to the discussion of another procurement and other orders concerning Koroška. Maybe we all need a little more time together to see what the best solutions are for Slovenia. Therefore, I ask you to reconsider that we do not decide today to put this law on the agenda, to discuss it and to take the best possible solutions for Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr. Versnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. That the state of public procurement is unsustainable, we can see in all areas, especially on the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. In addressing audit reports, all auditors face infringements in public procurement and the consequences of audit procedures that often cause economic damage. No one objects to complaints, if justified, with substantive problems, comments. It makes no sense, however, to those who refer to formalities that are always verifiable and do not affect the content of the offer. The pressure on the call for proposals and on the audit committee by the tenderers is increasing too disproportionately with the size of the deal. However, it does not matter how well or poorly the electoral process was carried out. As long as we talk about the damage caused by public procurement and the revision of those in the economy, one would somehow understand all this. But when we start talking about people's life and health, it's not, and it can't be a dilemma anymore. The public procurement and the audit procedure cannot and should not be a reason for endangering people's lives and health, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party we agree with the proposal to add a new paragraph to Article 11 of the Public Procurement Procedures Review Act, which will allow the President of the State Audit Commission not to suspend the audit request in the event of a direct threat to human life and health. This amendment to the Act is to enter into force the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party favour these changes and for one reason, because we believe that the interests of capital must never weigh the lives and health of people, so we will also support the proposed amendments to the law on the revision of public procurement procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u17	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that we will decide whether today the National Assembly should vote on the decision of the College - that is to say, we will decide on the type of procedure or whether we should put it on the agenda in order to decide today on the type of procedure. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u18	Thank you very much. At the meeting of the President of the National Assembly, the Government's proposal to consider a proposal for a law supplementing the law on the revision of the public procurement procedure by means of an urgent procedure did not receive adequate support. In such a decision, the majority of the parliamentary groups, including the opinion of the entire coalition, including DeSUS, decided that the law should be adopted on an urgent basis. We are in the Social Democrats' parliamentary group against such a proposal. We believe that this is a question which must be conceived and dealt with on a regular basis. We believe that these are such important issues that are addressed by this law, which would reduce the importance and responsibility of the decision-making process for the revision of public procurement procedures. It would happen that special rights and special powers would be acquired by the Government. The Government would be the one to decide whether and in which case decisions are taken under certain conditions. This would give the Government the duty, right and responsibility, instead of putting the procedure required by the audit committee and the audit report into the opinion and decision-making of the law, which would ensure the necessary obligation of the specific audit committee. It is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen, for us to allow ourselves to rule on this once again by the majority of the National Assembly on a proposal from the coalition and to be in a position to take place, instead of a careful assessment, when and in what case and under what procedure, a decision on legality should be taken, but not to give special powers and special rights to the government and the government coalition, while at the same time allowing bad decisions to be made that would be detrimental to the relevant rights and legality of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u19	Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 26. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The Assembly will treat this item as an A1 point immediately after the setting of the agenda for the meeting. I propose to the National Assembly an extension of the agenda at the request of a group of 18 Members that the National Assembly decide on a college decision to propose a law on amendments and updates to the Law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor and the Student Organisation of Slovenia on credits for co-financing the extension and modernisation of the premises of conditions, technological equipment, and the construction and renovation of the student housing capacity of EPA 913 and the proposal for a law on amendments and updates to the Act on additional concession fees paid for occasional and temporary work of students and students, EPA 914, be considered on a regular basis. You received the proposal for enlargement by letter dated 15 June 2006. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 16. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The meeting will consider this item as point 1b immediately after the agenda of the meeting. I propose to the National Assembly an extension of the agenda by considering the proposal for a law supplementing the law on State border control, an urgent procedure. You received the proposal for enlargement by letter dated 16 June 2006. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 4. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will treat this item as the 20th point on Thursday, 22 June 2002, after the end of the vote. On 16 June 2006, the Group of Social Democrats proposed an extension of the agenda for the 2004 meeting of the Committee for the Review of the Report of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for enlargement is contrary to the seventh paragraph of Article 64 and the fourth paragraph of Article 41 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, and therefore the State Assembly will not vote on the proposal. So I suggest - do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. My procedural proposal is to vote on this extension. In particular, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food adopted a decision at its 8th urgent meeting on 13.10.2005: "The Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the report be considered as soon as the Court of Auditors' audit report on the operation of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is submitted to it in 2004." This audit report came to the National Assembly on 1.6.2006, and you have convened today's 18th meeting of the National Assembly on 9.6.2006, so that, Mr President, it is already necessary, because of the decision taken on the Committee and the material which came on 1.6.2006, to this session, to put this item on the agenda itself, because all business conditions have been met. Thus, the Committee on Agriculture, which at its 13th emergency meeting, had considered this audit report or should have considered this audit communication, had concluded that this should be postponed when the Fund's response report to these findings of the Court of Auditors was carried out, which is of course no reason that we would not have had the Report of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004 at today's meeting of the National Assembly. I therefore propose, Mr President, that we vote on this extension, because indeed all the conditions for this item to be on the agenda are laid down, but not that we are currently even deciding whether we will be able to vote on the enlargement at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u21	Mr Weber, you're wrong, you don't meet the business conditions of this point. When it fulfils its business conditions and when the mother's working body completes its consideration and proposes a hearing at the plenary session, I will, of course, include this. Such proposals, I ask that they be referred to the College and now there is no room, is not the time for further discussion on this point. I therefore propose to the assembly that today's meeting should set a agenda, as you have received by reference and, of course, with the amendments and additions adopted. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 15. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the agenda of the 18th meeting of the assembly has been set. Gentlemen, when voting on the agenda, there is no explanation for the vote, no interruption of the vote. We move on to the 1st A-point of the agenda - Defence of the demands of 20 Members of the Group to decide on the decision of the College of Presidents of the State to propose a law supplementing the Law on the revision of public procurement procedures, EPA 890, to be adopted following the ordinary procedure. Does the proposer want to explain his proposal or do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Mr President, I do not doubt your abilities, I do not doubt your knowledge, I do not doubt your ability to manage the session, but before the vote on the agenda I raised my hand, let me know whether you are a fortune teller that you knew that I wanted to explain my voice or a procedural proposal. I raised my hand, you could at least ask me if I wanted a procedural one or not! I wanted a procedural proposal, you didn't give it to me, so you broke the rules of procedure. For the first time today, I hope never again in this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u23	This was not a procedural proposal and I am in charge of the meeting. I ask again, does the applicant have a desire for further explanation? Mr. Versnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. With regard to this law, I have already made my point in the introduction and the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, and because we all know, even if some here are moving, we know what this is about, and I think it makes sense that we are considering this proposal in a rapid manner, that we will not do any more damage than we have done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u25	Thank you. The College of Presidents decided at its 65th meeting on 9 June that the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the revision of public procurement procedures submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should be considered on a regular basis. During the five-day business term, as you have heard, the decision of the College is against the decision of a group of 20 Members with a first-signed mag. Francem Žnidaršić requested that, pursuant to Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure, the College decide on the decision of the College of State. There is therefore no discussion and no explanation of vote on this request, so we are voting on this request. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 47. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the assembly of the proposal has not adopted the decision and that the law will therefore deal with the parent labour body as a matter of urgency. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to 1B PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO THE REQUEST OF GROUP 18. APPLICATION TO THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DECISION ON THE DECISION OF THE COURT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL CONGREGATION, TO THE PROPOSAL OF A LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE EXPENDITURE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA WITH THE OBLIGATION OF THE UNIVERSITY IN LOVE, THE UNIVERSE IN MARIBOR AND THE STUDENT ORGANISATION OF SLOVENCY BY THE COURT, LEVELED FOR CO-FINANCING, EXTENSION AND DEPARATION OF PROVISIONAL CONDITIONS AND TECHNOLOGY EQUIPMENT AND BUILDING AND TRANSLATION OF STUDENTIAL FUCTIONS, At its 65th meeting, on 9 June 2006, the College of Presidents decided that the draft laws submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should be considered on a regular basis. Within 5 days, the College of 18 Members with the first signed magi is opposed to the decision. Francem Žnidaršić requested that, pursuant to Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure, the College decide on the decision of the College of State. With regard to the College's decision to consider the proposed law on a regular basis, I give the floor to the representative of the applicants if he wishes to explain further. [[He doesn't want to.]] There is no discussion and no explanation for this request, so we are moving on to a decision on individual proposals. First of all, I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor and the Student Organisation of Slovenia on credits hired to co-finance the extension and modernisation of spatial conditions and technological equipment and the construction and renovation of student housing facilities shall be considered on a regular basis. If the Council of State does not adopt the decision, we will consider the proposal of the law on an urgent basis. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 44. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the assembly of that proposal has not accepted it and that the law will therefore be dealt with in an urgent manner. I now propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the supplementary concession fee paid for the occasional and temporary work of students and students shall be dealt with on a regular basis. If the Council of State does not adopt the decision, we will consider the proposal of the law on an urgent basis. We're voting. There are 62 Members present, with 18 votes against 42. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be dealt with in an urgent manner. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with the first item on the agenda, which is with questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u26	Dear Members and honourable Members and distinguished Ministers! We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 25 Members and Members in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the Group and in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister. Members have 3 minutes to ask questions, Prime Minister and Ministers reply to questions in 5 minutes at the most, even if the question is asked by more ministers. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members, I ask you to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. On this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mrs Marija Lukačič, and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, from 5 p.m. on. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the Prime Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days, which will be published in the bulletin of the National Assembly. A Member who has asked a question to which he has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral response; in this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On the bench, you received a review of the questions sent and of the initiatives that have not yet been answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As has already been said, the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question will be asked by Mr Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u27	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Honourable Prime Minister, Ministerial Assembly and honourable Members! In recent times, we have seen that the media have given a significant proportion of attention to various problems affecting Slovenian railways. I am thinking of the catastrophic business results, the problem of unprotected railway crossings, the disengagement between trade unions, poor rail infrastructure and the disagreement between the management of the holding company and the supervisory board of the Slovenian Railways. In public, representatives of the management of the Slovenian Railways and competent government representatives try to give the impression that everything is in order on the railways. Unfortunately, the red numbers in the business balance sheet of the holding company and over 3,000 signatures collected by employees to recall the working director and, last but not least, the tragedies that ended with human victims due to irregular railway crossings show that something is very wrong on Slovenian railways. We have repeatedly warned the Social Democrats about these problems, including the call for an extraordinary meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Transport, and the problems of railways have been the result of irony and ridicule, mainly from the Slovenian Railway Management, rather than trying to find solutions to the situation. Nevertheless, the position of the Social Democrats remains unchanged. We estimate that the issue on Slovenian railways requires the greatest attention from all of us, but also from you, the distinguished President, and from the government you are leading. In doing so, we are aware that this did not come about yesterday, nor did it occur to you at the time of your takeover. However, we are concerned that the management of the holding company and the government of the resolution of the issues raised are not adequately addressed. Therefore, we have decided to ask you: When does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intend to fully implement the will of the electorate and electorate, expressed at the referendum in November 2002, after which Slovenian railways are to be organised in holding with three subsidiaries that will actually operate independently on the market, to which we are also bound by the directives of the European Union? What is the government's strategy to address the business and staffing and organisational problems facing Slovenian railways daily? Ter: When can taxpayers expect the state budget to be burdened by the payment of billions to cover current losses on Slovenian railways? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u28	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u29	Thank you for asking. The state of the entire rail system in Slovenia is not good and is due to the long-standing neglect of this system. Neither was the result of the referendum, although it should have been implemented in accordance with the law already in 2003. This government assumed responsibility at the end of 2004, inherited such a state, saving it as much as possible at that time. By the end of this year, rules should be adopted addressing the whole rail package. This should create a real legal basis for better functioning of the system itself. In addition, relations between the Slovenian Railway Holding Agency, the Agency, the Public Railway Agency and the competent Ministry will be settled. It does not claim that the Government or the State has not fulfilled the obligations arising from this decision at that time. The government basically did this, and it's true that everything that needs to be done in the system itself has not been done and things have been going a little bit slowly. At this time, 15 billion tolars were earmarked for the financial rehabilitation of the system. It was primarily a recapitalisation and debt takeover by the State. Then there were almost a billion and a half subsidies, mainly for restructuring, to reduce the number of employees. While this was aimed at a core of 2 billion tolars, the objective would not have been achieved and therefore no funds were paid. And of course, it also went for 30 billion tolls of government guarantees, and thus almost entirely fulfilled the commitments that have been made. And on the railway side, there was not enough follow-up to these plans. It is also true that we do not have at this time - no one has ever prepared it yet, and at this point we still have no definitive answers to the question of how long we will be able to repair the entire railway system or how long we are able to do so and how much resources we are able to devote to it. The calculations show that the total recovery would require between €8 billion and €10 billion. This is a huge investment, which far exceeds the largest national investment in the motorway network so far, and before we go here, we would need a complete picture. The government will provide the full picture this year. A strategic plan or national plan for the development of rail infrastructure by 2020 and within the resolution on strategic and national programmes, we will also allocate an appropriate share of the funds or funding resources for this rehabilitation or for the modernisation of Slovenian railways by 2023. When this framework is known, it will also be clear to what extent, and especially at what rate, because this is, above all, a matter of what time period we are able to do so. In short, when this framework is known, the time dimension will also be known. I would also mention that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia does not contain any items that would allow for the coverage of losses on railways and that is not done. The budgetary resources are intended only to cover the costs of the compulsory public service carried out by the Slovenian Railways in the field of railway infrastructure maintenance.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u30	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Dear President! I also expected a similar response, and I fear that in this way we will not convince the European Commission if Slovenia is in the process of failing to comply with European directives. Therefore, in this part, it seems to me that reference to previous governments is irrelevant, because we know that the previous management has begun to organise itself as the European directives say. The Commissioner for Transport, Mr Barrot, who visited Slovenia, also agreed to such an organisation in the Slovenian Railways. I am afraid that this government does not have a strategy to address problems on Slovenian railways, because it has proved fine in the last case, when most government representatives in the Slovenian Railways Supervisory Council have changed their decision overnight, and agreed to rent 3.2 billion dollars worth of loan for Slovenian Railways, as I said before, where it is only about covering current losses or here it is even about wages and regress for employees - which I personally do not mind. Obviously, some in Slovenia can make decisions on billions of sums lightly, and on the other hand, the budget line for the problem of unsecured railway crossings is empty, although you have clearly stated in the coalition contract that this will be remedied. However, I would like to draw attention to another duality of your government; you have resolved quite a few successful presidents of corporate administrations for non-business reasons or have left for so-called personal reasons. However, in the case of Slovenian Railways, the President of the Management Board and a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party apparently remained for personal reasons, as he should have been dismissed for reasons of business results and attitude towards work long ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u32	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u33	I don't know what to say to contradictory claims. If previous management had done well, there would have been no such problem. I do not think that any management of Slovenian railways has so far been part of this task, absolutely none. The previous one also only faked the situation by reducing depreciation and showing better results. This is perfectly clear and procedures are under way in this regard. Whether the current management will be part of the task - I don't know, but it's new and it needs to be given the opportunity for some time. However, it has been attacking since the very beginning, and for the first time I have heard that the director of the Slovenian Railways would be a member of our party, perhaps you have better information, but I do not know it. I would also say that some of the major investments in this system do not make sense until the whole picture is gone, if the system has been waiting for so long and if the system has been neglected for so long, then it is necessary to devote or sacrifice a few months to get a real assessment of the situation and know what we are doing. Here, too, a mistake was made when individual projects were made, declaring individual railway sections or tracks - second or third, or first - for national interest, but not seeing the whole picture. If as much energy as this has been invested was also invested in the recovery of the whole situation, then today we would have at least one clear picture ahead of us, we would not have eight billion euros for recovery, but we would have a clear picture and we would know how and what to do. This is now on the rise and, as has already been said, by the end of this year, this is also in the Government's normative programme, we will be given a rounded regulatory regime that will allow the situation to be regulated, and at the same time in this resolution, where we will see how much we can devote in the future, say, 15 years to modernising the rail system. However, if the situation is bad, there is no need to be convinced, we both know that, a hundred years ago, the train from Ljubljana to Jesenic drove an hour and today it is almost an hour away.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u34	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Mr Sašo Pece on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u35	Your Honors are here! If the Member's question was related to the Government's ability and if the Prime Minister's response was solely to the responsibility of the former Government and thus to the failure to recognise its existence, allow me to ask you about the question of justice or respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by your Government as the executive branch of the Authority. Today we are witnessing a very untransparent way of financing religious communities in our country, which is not for the benefit of members of the religious community and, not least, it is not for the benefit of the budget and the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. If we can safely claim that the existing funding system, i.e. 41.7% of the source of funding, co-financing of insured persons has been financed by the State, then we can more confidently claim that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within its new planned religious community law, provides for minimum funding by 60%. Minimum funding, which means, in other words, that we can achieve or fear that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will completely destroy the constitutional provision on the separation of the church from the State and finance religious employees in 100% insurance. From this title, I ask you: Why is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not prepared to adopt the model of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group on the introduction of the so-called voluntary church tax or contribution; the source of funding that clearly indicates the separation between the church and the state; the source that would once within five years enable citizens or citizens to decide within a given moment according to your example, Mr Janša, as you predicted on the recording of property within our country, to approach voluntarily, unless they join, of course, they do not approach the five-year funding of at least one of the religious communities. To make it easier for me to speak further, I will only define myself as a Roman Catholic Church. You probably know that you were a Member at the time, and I believe that, just as you are a Prime Minister today, the Slovenian State has decided to define denationalisation as the primary source of funding for religious communities. The denationalisation allowed the Roman Catholic Church to become the richest entity within our country. In the National Party, we argue that if we want to maintain the separation between the state and the church, it would be imperative that Slovenia also respect this provision in the form of voluntary contributions from those citizens who choose to do so. Mr Janez Janša, I ask you why, as part of the envisaged socio-economic reforms, where you expect to raise all taxes, do you not take into account the one that would implement the constitutional provision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u36	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u37	Thank you for asking. The church tax is not foreseen by the government; we believe that no new taxes are necessary; first, there is a need to abolish one. As regards the voluntary nature of the potential tax, this possibility already exists, the act of voluntary contributions to religious communities is regulated in the tax system of the Republic of Slovenia, supported by appropriate tax instruments, so that any debtor can either be a legal person or an individual who carries out an activity applying a reduction in the tax base for the amount of payments in money or for donations, including for religious purposes up to 0.3% of tax revenue. However, any natural person may also reduce the annual tax base by up to 2% in the event of a natural gift for religious purposes. Anyone who wishes to make a voluntary decision may choose to do so and the Republic of Slovenia may take this into account for a long time in its tax system as a relief. As far as the constitutional separation of the church and the state is concerned. This separation is known by virtually all European countries, and only a few of these countries know the so-called church tax in various implementations, so that there is simply no direct correlation between these two concepts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u38	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr Janez Janša - Prime Minister, in your reply, at least in my opinion, there is a bluff. Please note that the voluntary contribution is already included in the fiscal policy system today, please tell us nicely in the following reply, as defined in Slovenian fiscal legislation - tax legislation to know what I am talking about - the contributions paid by members of the religious or Roman Catholic communities in the so-called baskets. Mr President, if you answer that question, then I will believe it. But since that is not the case, let me tell you that in this case it is the most fundamental example of the grey economy. On the other hand, when you talk about a voluntary decision, you may, of course, deliberately forget that today all Slovenes or Slovenes are bound to be taxed to finance religious communities. And the difference that we offer in the model of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group is that those who feel like members of a particular religious community would have the opportunity to finance a particular religious community and those who do not feel that way would not be subject to the tax burden through the general tax burdens in our country. We are convinced that respect for the constitutional provision on the separation of the Church and the State is a fundamental condition for us to approach a change in fiscal policy. To conclude, let me say, in connection with what you are talking about some European countries, I know that the experts have introduced you to various financing models of the Roman Catholic or any other religious community. And let me also tell you that at least Germany and Austria have a model that allows the financing of certain religious communities voluntarily by their members. And according to our estimate, two billion a year, as far as the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is concerned to finance the Roman Catholic Church, is absolutely too much. Let each be financed on the basis of the number of members of this religious community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u40	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u41	I am sure that the largest church in Slovenia would be happy to support your proposal for each religious community to be financed on the basis of the number of members. But in this case, it's not about that. It's about choosing the right model. Church tax is a rare form of financing of religious communities, rare in the world and rare in the country. As has already been said, we would prefer to abolish any tax more than to add, and the government will therefore not include church tax in the reform package.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u42	Thank you. Do you have a proposal to discuss the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u43	On the basis of the right given to me by Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to propose an extended debate, especially on the basis that we have recently witnessed the proposal by the Liberal Democracy Group, and, last but not least, we have witnessed today by the ruling majority. In doing so, Mr Janša, just because your answers are more credible, there are several ways of financing in Europe, and the European Union directives allow national legislation to decide on its own way of financing between the State and the religious community. Therefore, do not follow exclusively those countries which fully finance religious communities from the state budget. At the same time, allow me to stress once again that, in my opinion, maliciously - I stress, maliciously - you are responding with false arguments. In the National Party we offer you a model of voluntary contribution, not a new tax, and you are aware of that. The existing tax system, which will additionally burden you on the basis of your new law, will financially burden citizens and citizens, and according to the model we offer you within the National Party, the religious communities will only burden those who choose to do so voluntarily, including the difference between your model and our model. According to our assessment, therefore, according to the National Party's proposal, people have the right to decide voluntarily whether and which religious community will be financed, but according to your model, every citizen will be obliged to co-finance the insurance of religious employees of at least 60%, emphasis being placed on the minimum, which means that we will achieve in a number of cases if this government continues with the way it works, even 100%. I would suggest to the National Assembly, Members and Members of the National Assembly that tomorrow, in the context of the votes, they support the debate and, with this, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia make it clear that if the Government is not prepared to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the speech or discourse on the separation of religion or the Church and the Republic of Slovenia as a State, this constitutional provision respects the State Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u44	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Saš Pečet to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The following will be Dr. Matej Lahovnik, who will ask the question on behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, how do you understand the role and importance of the national economy in the implementation of the basic development programmes? I ask you this in particular because you have decided to purchase Finnish armor instead of domestic manufacturers for 63 billion tolars. I know that you also have a basis for a decision to purchase such equipment in the decisions of the National Assembly. I agree with you that the security of Slovenian soldiers is first and that the interests of taxpayers must also be taken into account. Nevertheless, there is a whole range of indications that this business has involved a whole range of irregularities and injuries. When you were in Koroška, you said that there was a need to encourage the development of some of the sectors that were lagging behind in development. Last week, a wood factory from Koroška went bankrupt, even though you mentioned the wood industry, now the arms industry has a similar promise. When we look at this transaction that you're about to find out, there's a whole series of questions. For the first time, the price, the interest of taxpayers. When I looked at the "defence talk" website, which has been publicly available for more than a week now, I found that Croats will buy these same armors substantially cheaper than Slovenians, there is a price of 1.35 million euros, and your Minister Erjavec, who is now having fun and laughing, is buying them for 1.93 million euros. The difference is €580,000 in one armor. You know, we're buying a number of armoured men for action, as if they were in action, but they're substantially more expensive than in other comparable countries. The difference in 136 reinforcements is 18.9 billion tolars compared to Croatia. This is the value of an oncology institute's investment. So I wonder: What are you going to do to clear up all the irregularities here? I wonder why it's necessary to buy through a questionable intermediary, why doesn't the Ministry of Defence just negotiate with a Finnish producer? The second thing I would like to point out in particular is the fact that the Slovenian tenderer had the opportunity to complete his offer by 29 May 2006, which he also did in the range of 1450 pages. That's so much work. On the same day, this Interdepartmental Commission selected a Finnish producer. I wonder, does anyone really believe that in an hour or two it is possible to study so much material? The argument that in this way you will provide 1950 jobs is, of course, highly questionable, especially because in the Interdepartmental Commission they did not know how to explain, not what activities, not in which companies, and the fact that these armors are produced in Finland and that production will not be possible for at least a year and a half in Slovenia. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u46	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u47	Thank you, too, for that question. I am very glad that there are so many untruths about this topic that every opportunity to respond to such instigations is good. First of all, as far as Croatia is concerned. In Croatia only a selection procedure is under way, we do not know at what price Croatia will take a decision. The price of armoured vehicles of categories, as described in us or in Croatia, varies according to the configuration there between €1 million and €6 million, depending on what you put on this armor. And so talking about this difference is, I'll say, a perfect layman with a primary school is very misleading, let alone for someone who knows the numbers. As far as the local and foreign suppliers are concerned. Both tenderers on this call from the Ministry of Defence offer a foreign product. It is not the competition of a domestic and foreign supplier, it is simply a question of how many domestic parts or home-made parts of domestic knowledge and work will be embedded in one or another vehicle. The tenderer selected offered a significantly higher share of domestic production, so that a domestic supplier was selected from this point of view. As far as business owners are concerned. A misleading information appears that the owner of the Systemic Technology or of this provider is Slovenian. One of the minority owners is Slovenian, this is Viator Vector. The former government sold this company to this bidder for a modest few million, this buyer, called Viator Vector, and immediately sold it significantly more expensive to Styria. Which, at that time, he went to the property of General Dynamics, an American company. So it is for two foreign companies, for two foreign suppliers, it is perfectly clear that if you are browsing the internet, look at this, it also writes everywhere and does not deceive the Slovenian public about the choice of a Finnish supplier and the domestic one is neglected. As far as price and quality are concerned, according to the information I have, a better and cheaper bidder has been chosen. I don't know how the Ministry would excuse the choice if it were the other way around. I don't know how it could do that. I think we should nail the minister to a pitiful bench if he acted the other way around. In view of the ownership of the two suppliers, including the owner of the Systemic Technology, it is necessary to ask where this price difference between the two suppliers went. In addition, in any event, it is possible for those who are familiar with this type of production to be involved in the production in both cases. But that doesn't mean it's a home product. In the case of the System Technology offer it is 25% of the domestic contribution, in the case of the tenderer selected and represented by the Finnish company, it is 30% or more of the domestic products. As far as the price is concerned, compared to other countries that are currently engaged in this procurement, you can compare this with Poland and some other countries that have completed or are in the process of being selected. And these prices are, of course, comparable, but also depend on quantities, the difference is whether you order 600, 1,500 or 64 or 135 products. I would like this issue not to be politicised, but especially that this is not done on the basis of incorrect data or even false data, such as this in relation to comparison with Croatia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u48	Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u49	Dear Prime Minister, you have not answered my essential question. Will you stand for the Ministry of Defence to deal directly with the Finnish manufacturer, or will it continue to have to be concluded through an intermediary who was between 1991 and 1994, when you were the Minister of Defence, including the Head of Procurement at the Ministry of Defence? I do not think there is any reason, and the Minister of Defence also agreed to conclude the business directly and to exclude intermediaries who collect fat commissions. That's the first question. When we talk about concrete data, even in Poland, it is true. We'll get 11% more expensive than the Poles. However, if we are talking about specific numbers, there are only a few things that need to be said. To say that the share of the Slovenian industry will be greater in the case of this Finnish producer is quite questionable for a leading defender in this country. Especially because you know that production will not be possible in Slovenia for a year and a half. So the first 64 armored men will undoubtedly be produced in Finland. I wonder what the share of the Slovenian industry and Slovenian workers in these armoured personnel will then be. It is also clear to laymen that this is a whole series of irregularities. And in particular, you haven't answered the question: How can 1,450 pages of such documentation be studied in two hours? Tell me this as an expert, that's a fact, that's indisputable. Can a commission in an hour study two 1,450 pages of such material and say: Finnish armors are better than Slovenians. Not to mention, on the same day, tests were carried out on the driving characteristics of these vehicles. There's a whole kind of irregularity here, a whole series of doubts, so I'm asking you: Will you support the revision of this procedure? Are you going to pursue the interests of taxpayers that the Ministry of Defence directly enters into business with anyone rather than using intermediaries?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u51	Some things have to be said about these claims. For the first time, the Member has come up with a smooth idea that the offer is 11% more expensive than in Poland. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] The negotiations will need to be concluded before the percentages can be discussed. Only the tenderer has now been selected before the contract is concluded will there be a set of configurations and more. As far as intermediaries are concerned, this government has not established a system of public procurement in the defence field, it has not established a system of anti-supply, we have inherited everything from you, it is done in exactly the same way. The intermediaries are here for, say, the organisation of domestic production and the organisation of anti-supply. I don't know why you didn't remove the brokers when you had this thing in your hands for 12 years. As far as one of the bidders who is supposed to work at the Ministry of Defence is concerned, this is entirely possible. The Director of Systemic Technology, now represented here, is also a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, even our Member in the first reference. If these things were to work and make political decisions, the result would probably be different. Not me or anyone by the government has interfered with the procedure, and it will not interfere now. I will not order the minister to do the audit, nor do the audit. Things have to go exactly as laid down by the rules. I think it would be very good if, instead of asking such questions about the work of demagogism, everyone advocated that the possibilities for producing, wherever they were used, and in particular not to make any advance promises, people were deceived and then manipulated, if someone had taken something away from them. State institutions are obliged to treat everyone equally, to respect the rules when it comes to taxpayers' money, and to choose better and cheaper bidders. I'm sorry that you're defending yourself for something else. I'm sorry that you did this once, but that's not how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u52	Thank you. Do you have a proposal to discuss the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u53	Thank you very much. In accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the Assembly that the debate be held on the response of the Prime Minister to my question of the delegation, which is justified by the following facts. The undeniable fact is that the Minister of Defence has already discussed the characteristics of this business in the parliamentary group of the largest government party and has apparently convinced Members of the largest government party that this deal with Finnish armoured personnel is appropriate, so I think we should remove any irregularities or possible doubts in the National Assembly, where an appropriate debate is held on the response of the Prime Minister. Another time. Of course, the Prime Minister has deceived in his reply that I am not the one to talk about irregularities, because I also cited very precisely the source of 'defence.talk.com', you can see. In fact, the price that Minister Erjavec is operating at is 11% higher, he actually got it wrong, and I didn't want to mention it, because he's talking about the 2.5 million euro price for the armor, I actually calculated that there would be 1.93 million euros in these prices, so there's obviously a severe lack of mathematics or there's some irregularities in the background, and I think it's right that we're talking about these things too. The third thing I mentioned was just a fact, Mr Prime Minister, I did not object to the fact that the security of Slovenian soldiers is first, that it is in the interest of Slovenian taxpayers, that it is cheap to buy and that Slovenian production is maintained. I have here established reasonable doubts that in this case it has been so, and I have told you very specifically how it is with this material that it is so thick that a person can barely carry it and the Interdeputy Commission has studied it in an hour, two and made a decision. This seems to me like a necessary argument to clear up this issue here as well. Fourth time. When we talk about the involvement of the Slovenian industry in the programmes of the Slovenian army, it is necessary to point out that production on the Ravna runs, there are employees, you were up, you went to the factory, also your esteemed Member cut the tape and you certainly saw that it is there. In fact, there is no production in this case, only virtual promises on how jobs will be created, and a member, the president of the Interdepartmental Commission has even said, should be trusted by the directors. However, Koros could also receive 5,000 different statements about their intention to participate in the production of other local companies. There are many doubts, we are buying foreign armoured personnel, we are buying more expensive than in comparable countries, and the fact is that there are also many suspicions of irregularities in the choice of procedure, so I propose that this debate be held on the Prime Minister's response and that it is actually determined who is misleading here. Dear Mr. Prime Minister or myself [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Mate Lahovnik to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister. His question will be decided by the State Assembly in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will ask the question on behalf of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u55	Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The European Council meeting, which you participated in last week as Prime Minister, recorded another important event in Slovenian history, as a decision was taken to include Slovenia in the euro area from 1.1.2007. Last week, the European Commission published an annual report on public finances in the European Union, assessing, inter alia, the long-term sustainability of public finances in the Member States, including in our country. Mr President, I would like to ask you about your position on the statements or projections contained in the annual report, which relate mainly to the increase in the budget deficit and public debt, which the European Commission expects mainly after 2020. What does the government intend to do to avoid the possible fulfillment of these predictions? Recently, we were able to read estimates that the pension system we have in Slovenia today is sustainable without any more radical interventions by 2020. What are the government measures envisaged to prevent the implementation of such bad predictions and what has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia done so far? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u56	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u57	Thank you very much for the question, including the fact that someone in this Chamber noticed the fact that a European Council decree had been adopted a day ago, which notes that Slovenia can introduce the euro as of 1 January 2007 as the only new member. I am also pleased to be able to answer this question concerning the long-term sustainability of the pension system. This has been very manipulated, and the European Commission, in its annual report on public finances in the European Union, of course even in Slovenia, has assessed the situation quite correctly with us on the basis of data which are official Slovenian data. The data are also comparable and this situation has not yet been as it was tried in Slovenia, not in this pension system-related segment. The European Commission notes in its annual report in this segment that there is no need for short-term austerity in the pension system in Slovenia at this time; notes that Slovenia has adopted pension legislation to ensure that pensions are adequate and sustainable by 2020 in accordance with the socio-economic principle; that the pension reform of pension and disability insurance has quite realistically assessed changes in the ageing of the population and that Slovenia has introduced voluntary supplementary pension insurance, which already yields results. The report also shows that the ageing of the population in the coming decade will have no major impact on the public financial deficit. The share of public expenditure on pension insurance in gross domestic product is thus expected to increase by 0.6% of gross domestic product by 2015 and by 1.3% by 2020. Only after 2020 could there be a very serious situation if certain measures are not taken by then or if the measures already taken and planned do not produce results. The measures that significantly improve this picture, correct or reduce the pressure on pension expenditure are as follows. The first is an increase in economic growth; if we create more, it will be a significantly smaller problem. Secondly, to increase employment rates; the latest trends are positive if they continue, this will significantly reduce this pressure. Furthermore, to increase the share of insured persons throughout the population, including to maintain an adequate ratio between active and retired populations, to promote greater individual responsibility for their social status and to promote inclusion in voluntary pension insurance. In this regard, the government plans to amend two laws this year, which are very important. It is a novelty of the law on pension and disability insurance and a novelty of the law on investment funds and management companies. These novelties will lead to the separation of collective and individual insurance which will allow for the free decision-making of undertakings and individuals for products on the market, the continuation of separation for the period of saving and payment of pensions, the tax neutral approach of undertakings and insurers between providers and the elimination of the obligation and the linkage of the minimum guaranteed return. In order to improve the image, some other measures under economic and social reforms are also important. Let's say a measure to encourage early entry of young people into employment in order to shorten the study period, which is why a reform or Bologna process is taking place. And also through various measures, one of which is the most important labour market flexibility, which is one of the key reform measures. If all of this is done, then the projection after 2020, as it appears so far, will not show such alarming data.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u58	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The question raised had to be asked primarily because there was daily misinformation about how non-reform or anti-reform was adopted, how pensions were indexed, which is not true, of course, because they were still lagging behind to increase wages, although slightly less than before, and of course also information that the percentage in the social product would increase for pensions and that I do not know what the greater burden in the budget would be. I must say that the answers have finally clarified the real picture, because it is wrong for many who think that the sustainability of the pension system is primarily about reducing rights. Today we have learned that a number of other measures are equally helping to ensure the long-term stability of the system, and in this regard I thank you for the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u60	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u61	Earlier, there was no time to clarify, in my view, the necessary backdrop of these repeated pressure on the government to exacerbate the conflict with the pension generation. I really don't know who needed this after the law that stopped pension reconciliation from falling, but not compensation, it is also necessary to say that what was accumulated was passed almost unanimously, and for this law, many who have been very loud in the last days, in this criticism of the government, I think it is an unprecedented hypocrisy without chance. We, too, have committed ourselves to the principle of intergenerational solidarity and social justice in the wake of pension reform; it would be unfair for the pension generation at a time when a good future can be expected that future generations will live much better than those of the past, than those who are now retired, to put a disproportionate burden on them, including for reforms in the future. Especially if there are no reasons for this, I do not know what the reasons are, but even if the situation was worse, we should share these consequences fairly and evenly. I am also very disappointed that this topic has come to the fore. In the media, this was precisely what they said to the alarming warning, which of course was not true, the European Commission is focused on much more attention than the fact that Slovenia was the only one among the new members of the European Union to meet all the criteria, just all the criteria for taking the euro, that we received a congratulations from all our colleagues in the European Union for this success, and also wider, and that on this occasion, Slovenia in the world newspapers has written a lot, and this is positive, far more than after we entered the European Union, because we were then in a group of 10 countries, now we were alone, and that, of course, this is also a reflection of the positive results that we are simply achieving. At times, we would do well to look forward to the good news, not just the bad news.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u62	Thank you. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Dr Slavko Gaber will ask the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Secretary! As long as we were in the National Assembly amending the law on research activities and supporting the institutes, you were telling us something that ordinary people don't understand. You said that the greater impact of users, especially the economy at the work of the institutes, would be achieved by representatives of the Prime Minister and you, instead of representatives of the economy, sitting on the boards of the institutes. At the time, the economy did not agree, nor did the institute. Then, when you forced the institutes to run stately and put them back far back at this point, we thought it might be a nuisance, an exaggeration that would go away. But today we are witnessing that you have sent to Parliament a law on higher education, which is clearly not supported by the University of Ljubljana, the University of Primorska, the University of Maribor, that it is opposed by a student organisation, that there are skeptic employers to it and that it is not supported by your higher education world, that is, the flower of the higher education profession. I ask you therefore, Mr. Minister, why do you make changes without the slightest sense of an agreement between those who have to live through this law? What, Mr. Minister, holds you in the belief that in practice there will be a law that no one supports? Have you ever thought that it is possible, as you declare yourself, that you are wrong and not those who warn you that the law is unthinkable and that Slovenia will do much more damage than the benefits?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u64	Thank you. Mr. Minister, Dr. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, I'd like to say that this question was completely different from the one I got written, but that's not why. I will first answer what has been written and then some comments on a completely different question. Your question was: How do I picture the participation of universities, students, trade unions, employers in the design of higher education policy in the Republic of Slovenia? Cooperation is usually formal, informal. Formal nature is the work of bodies established by laws and regulations, for example in the administrative boards of higher education institutions, in the administrative boards of public research institutes, in the world of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education, in the world of student issues, in government and the like, formal and at these levels the government is extremely well involved. When you asked what we did, when we determined that there were a majority of founders on the boards of public research institutions, according to local institutes, and you said we would appoint state officials. If you look at how we've defined the sequences of our ministry, practically the people in them, except one by one, they're all from the economy. So this is what we wanted to achieve, and certainly not what you want to tell us that we just left to the administration. We actually wanted to hire and infiltrate the economy and we did. As far as informal cooperation with the groups is concerned, we have working groups, we have public debates, we have dedications, we have meetings and we have meetings at the Rector's Conference. In terms of working groups, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology has set up a group for the resolution of the National Higher Education Programme, involving representatives of all three universities, representatives of students, representatives of the Higher Education Council, the Science and Technology Council, the SAZU, the KORIS and the SOS. Various institutions participated in the organisation of public debates, together with 29 letters with comments and proposals, on the completion of the National Higher Education Programme. In addition, in February, three ministries - the Ministry of Education and Sport, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology organised a national debate on the European Qualifications Framework. We organised a consultation in Portorož on 8 May, with a consultation on the content of the institutional aspects of further development of higher education, where all representatives of higher education institutions were invited and participated. The organisation of meetings, for example, was agreed at the meeting on 17 May to continue the regular meeting. This is how we meet regularly with the union and we have already met about the National Higher Education Programme. We also participate in the meetings of the rector conference, of course if we are invited there. As we signed in the Bergen Communication, we agree, and we do. In short, we are stepping up our cooperation in achieving the objectives of the Bologna process in cooperation with all stakeholders. Of course, this cooperation is also essential for the implementation, writing or adoption of certain acts that we need to adopt. Therefore, we are actually looking forward to any cooperation and we do not mind if anyone, even informally, comes to us and we consult with them, or if he proposes, we are always open to consultation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u66	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we seem to have gotten along too well. You know exactly what I'm asking you for, but I have a feeling that your success in negotiating and partnership will not hurt us. Here you have listed what you are supposed to do formally; you will not believe, I myself know these formal frameworks. Once again, I ask you: How can you not find a common language with such partners as universities, employers, student organisations and, like your higher education council, on the issue of the core of higher education policy, this is the law you have brought to this Parliament. This Parliament - I do not speak for you, I speak for the sake of others - will address the law on the areas of identification and quality assurance, on the decision on accreditation of new institutions and programmes in higher education, on how habilitation is decided, on what is with the levels of education of people in this country and the comparability of different levels from different periods. You have not reached any agreement on such important issues, and these are facts. On the committee you have been told this, everyone in this Parliament and every day in the newspapers, and they warn you that they would like an agreement in this area to take place. Then I ask you, of course, I was not interested in how formal this is arranged, this is what too many people in this country know, if anything were to come to life in practice, there would be absolutely no harm, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u68	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Once again, more precisely as far as this law is concerned, although this was not a question, I repeat. As regards quality and the fact that the Council for Higher Education has accreditation, evaluation and habilitation powers, we fully agree, and in principle students and everyone else agree. What is at stake is just a form, in which there is no consensus, we are now talking about an evaluation, accreditation and habilitation system, in which some want to have an agency and we have defined it as an office within the Ministry. It was the only indisputable point, while the rest was not incontrovertible. As for the levels and comparison of the level of education, this is a major distortion. In my own answers, in my conversations with universities, with individual universities, with individual teachers as well as with people and most of the European professional public, and I agree with you that perhaps one part of the Slovenian professional public disagrees with this proposal, as regards coordination in education levels, but that is how the German, Austrian, Swiss, Italian, Czech and Croatian professional public agree with this. If one part of the Slovenian public disagrees with this, it is possible to explain this as a certain inadequacy or ignorance of a particular problem and I can again provide you with those five points that I have listed on the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology, and I will not repeat them here because they are on a magnetogram. We have five very strong reasons to accept this and I hope that those 130,000 educated graduates who will have a preserved level of education in the future labour market will also support this. If some of the Ljubljana and Maribor faculties believe, I apologize, they supported me in Maribor, or in the coastal colleges, that this is not appropriate for the social professions, of course they have every opportunity to adapt the programmes, but at the level of Slovenian universities, at the level of the Slovenian education system, a country simply cannot afford to destroy the level of all Slovenian students from 1919 until today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u70	Thank you. Mr. Gaber, would you like a proposal to address the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u71	Yes, Mr. President. On the basis of Article 246(2), I would like to discuss the Minister's response. I think it would be very useful at all to understand the development of democracy in this country. The Minister’s position and people’s position are not surprising and nothing is new. It is essentially more difficult than having your position to formulate this position and also to formulate a policy in some area on the basis of a broad agreement and, of course, to exchange enough arguments in seeking this agreement, not only to constantly repeat your views that someone else will accept your argument. 22 Faculty of Ljubljana University opposed - and we both know how many there are together - decisions related to one of the articles discussed here by the Minister. I don't even care about this article in this discussion here. I justify my proposal to discuss how to establish a consensual type of democracy in Slovenia, the type of democracy in which we agree on the most important things in this country. If higher education is not important if the agreement on what the education structure in this country will look like is not important, unless it is important that we have students at the front of our agenda, that the higher education institutions are against us, that even the Supreme Council in this area in the State of the Minister gives up the competence to understand the law governing higher education, then I simply do not know what is important. To some, polarization in the country and the spread of people at all ends is clearly more at heart than incompetent than to try to take that step forward. From coming and explaining at a meeting, what our position is, to leaving the meeting with an agreement, is a long and painful path. It was carried out under the existing law on higher education and is seen by all from different political perspectives, but there was no agreement in this law and, as it is clear, this agreement is also not in the national higher education programme, these are two key documents that regulate this area in the long term. I think it would be good to discuss how to agree on such important issues as these.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u72	Thank you. The proposal by Mr Slavko Gabra to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology to his question of the mission will be decided by the State Assembly in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Miran Potrč will ask the question of the Member of the Minister for Health, Mr Bručan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Bručan, we agree that the system and arrangements for the award of public contracts are both legally difficult, but are such as to prevent or at least reduce the possibility of abuse on the part of the contracting authority and at the same time to ensure to all tenderers equal conditions of participation in the tender that this is a matter of significant public resources, and of undisputed public interest, it is not necessary to stress in particular. All of this is evident also in the public procurement of the 18 operating tables of the Ministry of Health, including the most urgent procurement of the operating table for the oncology clinic in Ljubljana. In the interest of the patients, we want and demand that the Ministry of Health conduct a negotiated public procurement procedure in such a way that the contract will be made definitively and without such suspicion of illegality or fraud to the best bidder as soon as possible. In doing so, we stress that the responsibility lies with the competent minister and with you, Minister Bručan, as the Minister of State. With regard to the new procedures, some questions are again being asked in public whether or not it will be, so I ask you whether you can ensure that the procedure for the purchase of 18 operating tables, as presented publicly on 14 June, is in line with the legislation and decision of the State Audit Commission for the revision of the procurement procedure and that no further complications will arise in the implementation of this procedure? Specifically, when can we expect the procurement procedures to be completed by negotiation, the operating tables will be delivered to hospitals to serve their purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u74	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr Member, for the question, thank you very much for your words, Mr President. As far as these 18 operating tables and procedures are concerned, I can say that by now the procedure has been legal under the applicable legislation. Of course, I can also ensure that the next procedure or the ongoing procedure is kept in accordance with the law and also with the decision of the State Commission to revise the procurement procedures and, of course, to enable such work to ensure this. The other thing is, of course, what you are asking me is whether there will be more complications in the implementation of this procedure. What are these complications in such an order, we know more or less. In most cases, this is justified, at least sometimes and in most cases under the current legislation, but may also be partly justified, partly unjustifiable and, of course, unjustifiable claims made by tenderers. And specifically to your final question, the answer to what our plans for the procurement process are and when this process will be terminated. We have sent tenders to 12.6. to all tenderers, that is to say to the tenderers outside, the number of previous tenderers, the preparation of the tender documentation and the acquisition was prepared within two days, 14.6.; 23.6. will open the tenders. From 26.6 to 29.6., negotiations and adoption of the award decision and notice of the selection of the tenderer will be held between 26.6 and 29.6 and the finality of the procedure, according to the deadlines existing under the law - 11.7, with the signature of the contract 12.7. These are the dates that are foreseen if there are no different complaints. As I said before, they can be established, but mostly, as they were before, they're not founded. And now a few more words, at the Ministry of Health, we started a new procurement procedure for 18 tables and related equipment. Due to the complications of past years in proceedings, it is essential that the procedure, of course, be carried out as soon as possible in accordance with the rules laid down in the law and ensure the signature of the contract and the execution of the contracts by the end of September at the latest. Towards the end of September, these tables should be installed according to the plan ahead of us if there are no unnecessary complaints. The Public Procurement Act allows the contracting authority to carry out a negotiated procedure if there are circumstances that require the execution of the contract as a matter of urgency. Thus, the law expressly provides that the contracting authority may award a contract under a negotiated procedure without prior publication where the reasons which the contracting authority could not foresee are given and cannot be prescribed to the contracting authority. Due to exceptional urgency, public procurement is inevitably necessary and it is not possible to respect even the shorter deadlines prescribed by the Public Procurement Act. We have also informed the Ministry of Finance of the planned implementation of this procedure in accordance with the law. The urgency of carrying out this contract was the reason we decided to carry out the negotiated procedure without prior publication, i.e. without a call for tender. In the present proceedings, notably on the basis of the last procedure, in the case of this contract, it has been shown that there are certain elements the contracting authority could not have foreseen. Since it was an international invitation to tender and since the tendering documents were not contested, the tenders received showed that the market was not operating. On the one hand, we have dealt with offers that, as the State Audit Commission has found, are incorrect about formalities, but they have been substantively correct because they offer products of the same manufacturer and therefore have almost the same price. On the other hand, there are two, not only formally, but also substantively incorrect offers, which could not be the subject of a choice in the event of irregularities which could not be remedied under the law of procedure, offered goods at a substantially lower price. And as you are informed, the procurement process is now under way by the new 6-member expert commission. As the present part of this invitation to tender has taken place, I have already told you, and I think that we will be able to remove this calendar, which is here before us, subject to all legislation. The Commission will negotiate with all tenderers. I must say here that the tenderers are now significantly more than at the time of the first invitation to tender, because we have also sent the offer to those tenderers who did not take part in this last invitation to tender but have participated in another invitation to tender. So now it's 13 offers. I think we'll be able to choose suitable tables with this competition. Of course, negotiations will be concluded, expected at the beginning of July. I hope that there will be no unnecessary complaints that the procedure will be carried out through this calendar that is here [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u76	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You claimed that the new procedure was also a prior practice in line with the decision of the State Audit Commission. So I want to know: Did this Commission advise you to proceed with the procurement process by negotiating because you did not receive any correct offers within the open time limit? Is there another way? Secondly, what, in your opinion, are the reasons on which I, in principle, have not been able to hear in particular, which have not been foreseen in the present proceedings and therefore give you the right to attribute a different procurement procedure? I wonder, do you count on the urgent adoption of a law on the revision of public procurement procedures? The necessary adoption of the law which is in the procedure, we both know, on which I believe that in the case of re-competition in the procurement procedure, you will be able to rely on the decision not to suspend the implementation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and thus conclude this procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u79	As regards the procedures themselves, we have decided on the basis of the opinion of the State Audit Commission, which in fact did not foresee any procedure laid down by law. The law provides that, in this case, under Article 20, paragraph 4, of the Public Procurement Act, the contracting authority may carry out such a procurement procedure without prior publication as we have now set out in this case. We've decided on urgency, urgency and unpredictability. On the basis of this decision, we have also decided on this procedure for the reason that we have to get to these seriously expected hospitals as soon as possible, and I would like to say that it is not just the Oncology Institute, that it is also the other hospitals that need tables as urgently as possible, and that there is no big difference between one and the other hospitals, although now the most talk is about the Oncology Institute, which urgently needs these tables, but there is a link to some other solutions that are under way and will be regulated in the short term. While in another hospital, where tables had been practically placed in the previous term, in a Maribor hospital, they had to be cancelled and even removed because of this central method of ordering, and they would have operated on these tables long ago in a Maribor hospital. This is based on the decision of the former Ministry, which decided to implement the central call, which in this case proved to be catastrophic and which led to all the current problems. In this regard, I can only say that I will try as much as I can, that the legal path will be made and that we stick to the decision of the State Audit Commission. As far as the law itself is concerned, which is supposed to be adopted quickly, even if it is adopted, I hope that it will not have to be applied in this case, and that we will nevertheless achieve the procurement of operating tables without the application of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr Branko Marinič will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you very much for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Dear Ministers and Honourable Minister Podobnik! It is almost amazing to ask you in this modern time of technological and technical progress in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia: When will households in the Halo Congregations of Videm, Zetal and Majšperk receive water from the public water supply? This is a joint project of the Western Halose water pipeline, funded by those municipalities, the Ministry of Environment and Space, and co-financed by individual households, which have already settled their financial share in the municipality. Some of them were more than a year ago. Since December 2004, I have been working towards the implementation of the project as soon as possible. Unfortunately, to this day, I have come across deception and empty promises to start now. That's not gonna happen. According to the written sources provided to me, the Ministry of the Environment and Space provided financial resources in the spring of 2004 to the extent that the work started in autumn 2004. On 26 May 2005, at the second meeting of members of coalition parties with ministers, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia asked me when the project Vodovod - Western Haloze will be implemented. After more than one year, things are still beginning. When you visited the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 21 and 22 February this year, you also made your visit to Videm Municipality, where you also assured me that you are now starting seriously. And yet again, none of that promise. On 31 May this year, I sent you a written question why the project is still not starting. I already received a written reply within three hours in which you stressed your personal engagement to include the Ministry of Environment and Space with financial assistance in the project Vodovod - Western Halose. You further inform me that there have been some complications in interpreting formal procedures. Anyway, things are too long and they're pulling. I ask you: Is it a deliberate delay in unnecessary bureaucratic procedures that do not have time limits? Is it complicated because of the narrow interests of individual lobbyists at the Ministry of the Environment and the place where Mrs Bernarda Podlipnik and Mrs Meta Gorišek play a double role, followed by Mrs Bernarda Jurič as project manager? In view of your statement, I ask you: When will the congregations of Videm, Zetal and Majšperk receive all the powers to start the project? Does your statement that the congregation of Videm will receive [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member Marinic, I am happy to answer your question. First of all, hold what you stated that in my quick response to your electronic message I indicated that I personally engaged myself to resolve this issue. And I assure you, if I did not personally engage myself, then I would not be able to tell you today this information, which you also partially already know, that all procedures are formally completed and we can gladly find together that the municipalities now have a completely open path so that this process, which was not procedurally easy, can continue. I would like to stress here in particular that we have also worked very hard with our colleagues in finance, and that Minister Bajuk and his team have also engaged in this case. And before me I also agree to the financial coverage of the investment project of Videm Municipality, the provision of Haloz with drinking water, the first phase. It is important that I mentioned the municipality of Videm, for I also took the stand that the municipality of Videm is the one carrying the project, not the ILO, that is, the congregation. And I assure you, it has not been easy in the context of a relatively complicated procedure through colleagues in my house, as well as elsewhere to achieve a proper, legitimate, legal path. And that's what we've done now. I assure you that there has been no deliberate delay and, above all, it has never been on my side to fail or make empty promises. Those who know me know that I have no habit of lying publicly at any time. Even in this case, I did not, but with my personal involvement, I achieved that part of Haloz will get what they deserve, and this is drinking water. Now this project also has full financial coverage. In 2006, these three congregations - including Majšperk - will participate and reap 165 million and 165 million next year. Of course, we have a common agreement that we will continue and conclude the matter in the coming years. When we also agree on the financial coverage of the investment project, I can only say that the direct user, this is the municipality, will be given a decision on the amount of co-financing of the investment project. We will also conclude a co-financing agreement with it and will enter into a public tender. I hope that they will get the contractor as soon as possible so that the call will be so ready that we do not expect a complaint and that in the early autumn months in Haloza there will be dynamic construction in this area. Some names were mentioned. That's all I can guarantee you, mag. Bernarda Podlipnik was one of those who contributed greatly to this conclusion today. I'm basically a minister who I trust with my associates. Only if I get clear, unequivocal proof that anyone is acting contrary to the legislation in force, but then I am also taking action. In this case, I have no proof of that, so I trust my colleagues. So I want the Haloses to get drinking water as soon as possible, this part that doesn't have it yet. And in this place also thanks and trusts all those citizens and citizens, especially in the Videm Congregation, who contributed themselves in 2004, I think that in the amount of EUR 1,000 in this project and they have to wait until now to know that the project will be successfully completed. And about the deadlines, there's this information. On 10.4.2006, when we went through complicated procedures, we found, on the basis of the opinions of financial colleagues, that the municipality of Videm had yet to complete certain documentation - that is, this was on 10 April this year. And then the congregation of I see this documentation in accordance with Article 5 of the special rule, so we can now come to a conclusion. I also have an operational drinking water supply programme ahead of me, which will be dealt with shortly by the government. However, we also have an agreement with our and your Committee on Environment and Space that the Committee will also receive this material and also deal with it or familiarise itself with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u84	Thank you, Minister Podobnik. Mrs Majda Shirca will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Nice welcome to the ministers. Mr Drobnic, I regret that your answer will not be witnessed by citizens and citizens, because, as you know, there is no direct transmission of the questions sent today. Unlike the old times, when this happened, the second day you filed a law to abolish the RTV contribution. But I'll still be happy with your answer, I hope. My question concerns your interview you gave at the beginning of the month for the Evening with a talkable address of 7,500 births and 9,000 abortions. In this interview, you said that in Slovenia there is obviously not enough joy in life, which is especially evident in births. Mr Drobnič, what will you do to bring joy to life in Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u87	Thank you so much for asking. Dear Member, first of all with regard to RTV, I am not competent, I have no influence. And, of course, I'm also not competent, and I'm not particularly thrashed. I think that people will still find out what the government's views on the larger fertility strategy are. On one occasion, the Prime Minister stressed that one of the key objectives is to increase births in Slovenia, for various reasons: economic, social, social and could still be listed. You're probably aware of that, too. We are preparing a strategy for greater fertility in the Republic of Slovenia, which will contain a series of measures. Above all, those who have been neglected in the past, we would like to emphasise in this strategy and which have an important impact on the increase in birth. From the measures so far, it can be understood that only economic, only monetary measures do not affect the increase in births, so of course we take into account the professional and other public and the profession in order to develop measures that will lead to, as you say, a state in Slovenia where greater joy will be shown for life and will not be some form of demographic suicide. The measures will be in the areas of health care, the protection of pre-school children, education, parental protection, family benefits, parental competitiveness in the labour market, housing policy, pension and disability insurance, the tax system and the promotion of family life and, of course, life in general. We are not waiting for a strategy to be put in place. We have implemented some measures, such as a large family allowance. You are aware of this, then with regard to the right to a shorter working time, which is extended to the 6th year of the child. Then we made provision for the payment of contributions or employment for those who have four children, for the father or the mother, whatever their choice, and for the exemption from the large family allowance imposed by the previous government, and we made it possible for the family to be released. There are now some changes in employment, the release of contributions for young people under 26 and 28 years of age, and for those unemployed who replace their mother or father on parental or maternity leave. Unfortunately, this employment law is getting stuck. We have foreseen a number of good solutions, but in Parliament you are discussing how to postpone the enforcement of this law. Just like with parental protection. That's unworthy. The law contains a number of measures, in favour of promoting families and employment for women, and in particular for those who go on maternity leave. And now what we intend to do. That birth data, it's not accurate about abortions. In Slovenia about last year, this year around 17,500 births and between 8 and 9,000 abortions a year, which marks us on abortions on a severe blacklist. In the course of this flood of measures or protective measures, there are clearly many unacceptable abortions in Slovenian reality. We're going to reduce the number of abortions. This is within the health field. We will maintain or improve the level of rights regarding the health care of pregnant women and mothers. Reduction of abortions in an appropriate way, so that we inform and also influence young people so that they do not choose to do so. Then the protection of preschool children, the area of education, as far as school is concerned, then parental scholarships, student families, parental care, family benefits, early decision-making premiums on the birth of a child, the labour market and the competitiveness of parents in the labour market, where we also proposed within the EU [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] coordination of work and family life within the framework of the Working Time Directive, in the housing area of the introduction of the so-called first family home, in the employment area [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, thank you. Mrs. Shirca, would you like to complete your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u89	I see that there will be no lack of joy in life, given what Mr Minister promises, but I must point out at the same time that it is interesting that the information you have repeated has been stated and, as has been said, that in Slovenia, 7,500 births and 9,000 abortions have not been corrected and also exercised the right to correction, if you already believe that the data were not accurate. Nor is it true that there are between 8 and 9,000 registered abortions in Slovenia. That's not true. There are currently 6,403 registered abortions in Slovenia, which is 40% less than in the early 1980s or 7% less than in the previous year, and the birth rate is almost 18,000. I want to tell you something else that your emphasis on the high number of abortions, which is also related to your response to reduce them, may have some purpose and possibly is also in the midst of what we heard from Mr Rodet when he was talking about killing in gynaecological clinics. I therefore urge you to tell me more in the add-on of the answer about how you will reduce the number of abortions that you find unworthy of our country at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u90	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thank you very much for the additional question. Anyway, the numbers I mentioned were official in the past years. They're just averages. This number is very large if we compare it with what I have also mentioned, and that is why we are all responsible, so moral, social, economic and any other, that we can meet with it, we can say, evil. Look, it's about disrespecting life, it's about the essentials, and of course we can't just walk past it. We will therefore introduce a series of measures: raising awareness, education, educating young people about family planning, about partner communities, about preparing for a common life. Those who find themselves in a situation when unwanted pregnancy occurs will be helped to make choices about life and not death, for in our time the culture of death has been too elevated and promoted. Helping those who choose to live, young women, and we firmly believe that this is the right way. This means that when they find themselves in this situation, they will be assisted in either installing, advising, and in various forms of assistance through NGOs, which are large in our country. These are those measures that we believe are totally indisputable. Of course, they will also contribute to more births. This is one way to raise ourselves up a little bit on this scale and in Slovenia, as you said, there will be more joy to life. These are the measures. You will have the opportunity, including NGOs, to help and influence others in designing a programme for greater fertility. We certainly all agree that we must do something in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u92	Thank you. Would you like to propose a debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u93	Paragraph 246 of Article 246 allows me to speak in Parliament as soon as possible about the culture of death that marked this nation clearly so far and about the measures outlined by the Minister and to speak as soon as possible until it is too late. Obviously, I have read more scientific research on this problem as a competent minister, because the belief that fewer abortions will increase fertility is misleading, as everyone who deals with it not only with statistics but also with an analysis of this issue. There will be fewer abortions, but we know that some contraception is already on the list of paying aids. I am certainly not satisfied with your answers, so I think it is reasonable, useful and urgent to discuss plans that may also be controversial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u94	Thank you. On the proposal by Ambassador Majda Shirca to hold a national assembly at its next meeting at its parliamentary debate, the State Assembly will decide in the course of tomorrow's debates or tomorrow's votes. Mr Dusan Kumer will ask the Minister of Finance a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! A while ago, I raised some questions from Members of the Government, State Secretaries and other government officials regarding the irrational spending of budgetary resources, such as diaries, nocturnals, air transport abroad, meetings of government members, state secretaries and other government officials in supervisory boards and administrations, where the owner or co-owner is also a country and, last but not least, a very good number for a large amount of money in business and copyright contracts for advice and professional assistance to individual ministries, although the government has taken measures to reduce employees in the state administration. One of the reasons or the bearer should also be too much money for wages. In addition to the concrete data that may have surprised someone in the government, such as that the Ministry of the Environment had over 600 million contracts concluded last year, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs for more than 350 million contracts, some State secretaries and other government officials were sitting in several supervisory boards or administrations, where they still received or earned quite expensive fees in addition to their salaries, until payment for bed and overnight abroad for almost 900 euros and so on and so on and so on. In addition to these data, promises have been made that the government will short-circuit these meanings and nonsense and anomalies. That's why I'm asking you, Dr. Bayuk. Firstly: Has the Ministry of Finance already developed an appropriate systemic solution and thus created a legal basis for a comprehensive regulation of this area, particularly in the areas of travel costs, meetings, supervisory councils and so on? Secondly: Has the government taken any concrete measures, and if this is the case with regard to the envisaged high funds for commercial and copyright contracts in 2006 for individual ministries? And a third, which I add in relation to the latest current issues: whether the State as owners and government as the supervisor of the KAD and the SOD, through which almost 400 supervisors are appointed in companies where the co-owner state or majority owner, agrees with one-stop meetings and other allowances to supervisors, volunteers who several times exceed the average wage of employees in these companies. Only example: an employee representative in the supervisory board may receive an even greater fee than that paid in the same company or company. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u96	Thank you. Mr. Minister Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u97	Dear Mr President, honourable Member! Thank you very much for your question. It's true it's not the first time you've asked me that question. It is also true that there was still quite a productive communication between the Ministry and you when we provided you with the information you requested a few months ago. Surely it is also true that in this Chamber I answered your question two months ago that we are working on this regulation, which is supposed to settle it in a systematic way, and that this has already been in inter-departmental coordination. Of course, I will also repeat - and I read from this magnetogram that I also said - it is true that this is a very complicated matter, obviously I underestimated it so that we can find a solution so quickly. But I think we're really close to a final solution. Many coordination and negotiations were needed. This is a very complicated matter precisely because of a legal basis that is not the same for all companies and institutions in which the state operates as owner. And then as a direct owner through such and different organizations or institutions, which really blurs the image of a final solution. I hope that I will be able to answer you in the future, but now, yes, for weeks, because I know that you will remind me again at one of the next meetings that this needs to be resolved. As far as your last question is concerned about the measures to be taken with regard to the funds earmarked for business and copyright contracts. We also gave you statistics for two years, I think for 2004 and 2005. Our system does not allow me to answer you very easily through accounting a few years ago. The fact is, however, that the competence of any minister who has to assess to what extent individual author and business contracts are necessary for the smooth functioning of the Ministry. Each minister shall make such a decision, and shall have such decisions in his/her jurisdiction. But it is right that such things become public, I think it is crucial that they become public and remain public. Finally, it is public funds and public responsibility of the officials who have these resources. As far as the specific question is concerned, if I have understood you correctly, there should be 400 alternate members in the supervisory boards through the SOD and the KAD. This number is way too high. I will present to you, as well as to all the respected members of this National Assembly, how many have actually been and what are the institutions in which the Supervisory Councils have changed to make any changes? In any case, it's far below this 400. It is necessary to settle this matter, but it is always necessary to have the following in front of your eyes. However, the responsibility assumed by a member of the Supervisory Board in accordance with our legislation is immeasurably great. Nor do they exist, I would say, provided insurance mechanisms because they finally respond with their own resources and with their own assets for errors that they may make. This is in our legislation and such a responsibility must also be recognised. In a specific case of the Ministry of Finance, I can tell you that as an institution as a ministry, we need certain people directly involved in these institutions in the supervisory councils, so that we can exercise what is essential to us. It is not so easy for officials to ask for such additional work and I would say that payments, meetings of the most insidious cases, are, you know, the biggest cases are very hidden from the public's eyes. For example, meetings in the supervisory board of the New Ljubljana Bank, and I guarantee you, we have already given them to you, that they are not so high that someone decides to go into such a business if it is not strictly out of service or that he has access to other privileges as a member of the Supervisory Board. I'm sorry, we haven't finished this yet, and I assure you, we're going to have a solution very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u98	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u99	If I start back here, when I last asked this additional question, now a new question, because I didn't say here that he replaced the SOD and the KAD, but through the SOD and the KAD in those companies, companies where the co-owner state or majority owner is about 372 state-owned supervisors. Here I would like to make one suggestion and I am interested, this is the second question, when we are always talking about European models, it is good to take any European example or standard that applies to supervisors in those companies where the State owns, have a limited ceiling on these fees, prizes and so on, if they are supervisors from the State to other supervisors who are on the market or other companies. It would be good to follow Europe's example here, as in other matters. And since I am likely to continue to struggle with rationality and the spending of taxpayers' money, I will only give an illustration that this is another irrational spending, and this must be our school, let's say the OSCE Presidency. We have spent a lot of money, two billion more, and I would ask you, since the last Parliamentary Assembly, when it was in Ljubljana, whether anyone has heard a word about OSCE in public in this Parliament within the government and so on. Unfortunately, I didn't hear anything about the OSCE anymore. If I didn’t know who took over at that time, I wouldn’t know who was presiding today. Once again, it is a major asset both for travel logs and other promotional matters and it is good that, indeed, within the government, even with regard to the code adopted by the government, the government is preparing these austerity measures for rational spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u101	I'm sorry if I misunderstood you about these numbers. In any case, I think that it would be only fitting and right, because there are such and different numbers appearing in the public to give you this too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr Milan Petek will ask the Minister of Transport a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you, President for your word. Your Honor, Mr. Minister Christmas! My colleague Han has addressed detailed questions to the Prime Minister, however, I am asking similar questions to you, because I believe that when you took over the ministerial function, you have made sure to the members of the National Assembly and to the public that you will try to regulate the situation as soon as possible in the entire Slovenian Railway System and will see to it that you accept the national programme for the development of railway infrastructure, which must oblige you after half a year. In contrast to your current assurances and obligations, which are also enshrined in the coalition contract, you and I both know that the situation in the entire rail subsystem, especially within the Slovenian Railways holding company, is catastrophic. Thus, in the last week, the management and resolution of accumulated problems was demonstrated by the management of the Slovenian Railways holding company, with Dr Jožet Jurkovic at the head, as well as by the supervisory board headed by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, namely your Minister, Dr. Peter Verlic. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, as Minister, you are aware of this responsibility, which, of course, you bear as the first ones called, when you fail to fulfill the promise you made at the time you began to minister, and I believe that you are aware of what will happen if the collapse of Slovenian railways occurs, which, of course, will also cause chaos in passenger and freight transport, endanger mobility and the safety of passengers, and I believe that it will also cause great economic damage, which is why I ask you the following questions as the first person responsible: First time. As the competent minister, will you suggest or ask Dr Jožet Jurkovic, the Director-General of Slovenian Railways, to resign from the position of Director-General of Slovenian Railway Holding? Another time. If Dr. Jože Jurkovic does not do so, will you ask the Governing Council to resolve him? Third time. Do you and when will you propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to dismiss the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Railway Holding and appoint a new one that will be professionally competent and politically independent? Fourth time. Are you going to propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that because for more than a year and a half he has done nothing to improve the performance of the holding company because he has failed to complete the restructuring of the Slovenian Railways, in accordance with the law and the referendum decision, and because he has not yet submitted to the National Council for the consideration and adoption of the national programme for the development of railway infrastructure, the discharge of the Secretary of State, including the influential member of the SDS, Dr. Petr Verlic? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr. Minister Mag. Christmas is your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u105	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good day, and also thank you for the question to the Member of Parliament. I'm going to try to answer all the questions I've been asked, which are quite a few, very briefly. To sum it up, we're not thinking about any human resources solutions right now. The rules of the game are clear, everyone has to do their job. Thus, the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Railway Holding, led by the Secretary of State, Dr Verlic, requested management to commit and strictly implement the 2006 Business Plan, which was adopted and endorsed by the Supervisory Board and will monitor implementation and, in the event of derogations, take action. At the same time, the Supervisory Board instructed the management of the Slovenian Railway Holding to develop a business strategy as soon as possible, where it will present ways and measures leading to the recovery of the situation in which the Slovenian Railway Holding is located. I believe, however, that when we are critical of the personnel that are doing very difficult and difficult work, we should also look at the situation and environment with which these people are confronted in their work. The situation in the field of railways, which we received in our mandate, was more than worrying. The whole railway system, because of some, in my opinion, wrong moves in the past regarding the distribution of key functions to individual entities, could not function as necessary. On the other hand, we are faced with the consequences of long-standing non-investment and neglect of the whole system and of the rail infrastructure itself by the State, which is reflected in a state which cannot be remedied without major financial contributions. The Ministry of Transport has drawn up a so-called railway legislative package whose railway project security law between 2006 and 2009 is already in government procedure, just before that, the railway transport law, after which we will incorporate the railway safety law into the procedure and then a series of sub-legislative acts. A national programme for the development of railway infrastructure, which is financially valued and defined by the dynamics of implementation, is also awarded and concluded. It only needs to be complemented by the choice of a financial model. When we adopt the legislation and at the same time start implementing the projects, I estimate that we will arrange and do a great deal of work in this area. In view of the fact that the Prime Minister has already explained certain situations and, above all, the situation in this area, I would only add that it is expected to adopt a global infrastructure investment plan in the Republic of Slovenia and also to adopt a national programme for the modernisation of the railway network, which will certainly improve in terms of the effectiveness of the operation of the Slovenian railways and the entire system. As far as all other procedures are concerned, I have also said that all relevant legislation, including legislation, is being drafted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u106	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u107	Minister, I was kind of expecting such an answer, especially when you inherited a bad situation, which I believe is true, but I did not ask the question of responsibility because of the poor situation, I asked the question because a few events took place in the last week, which require a clear responsibility of both the Director-General and the President of the Supervisory Board. At least in my opinion, the administration obviously does not control even the most basic business processes, since, we all know, first of all, it asked for a loan of three and a half billion tolars, and the supervisory board rejected it. On the second day it was found that cash low allows for 300 million credit cuts, or this 300 million has increased by 800 million, and eventually granted a loan of 2.4 billion tolars, one billion less than was planned first or preferably first. And at least I have doubts whether it was here for speculative reasons and here I see this first responsibility of the administration, so no administration in a serious economic society should speculate and try to swindle the supervisory board. The Supervisory Board is a body that consists mostly of former and current employees in the Slovenian Railways. He's not even responding to Dr. Jurkovic's statement. [[You know them.]] that two hours a day is enough to keep the Slovenian Railways holding. Therefore, what would only solve the President of the Administration or the entire administration, who is not in favour of this issue, nor of the irrational and uneconomic blackmail carried out by the trade unions. There are so many things in the current business, not in history, that I think you should react if you want to protect yourself, protect your integrity, and, after all, take care of your destiny as a minister yourself. That was the purpose, so I asked if you really didn’t see the possibilities and reflections of resignations or reliefs for these reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u108	Please, Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u109	Thank you very much for the possibility of further clarification on the additional question and the interpretation of the Member's interpretation from his point of view. I can add that the Supervisory Board has taken full responsibility for taking the situation into account and discussing the issue of financing and providing the necessary money for the functioning of the Slovenian Railways. For this very reason, I can say that both the management and the supervisory board have fully carried out their task, because much differently I could have thought if it had happened the other way around - that to this debate, which was substantive both on the supervisory board and also on the management side, the proposals put forward could have been to consider that those who run such a large system had acted irresponsibly. It is precisely these discussions that prove to me that the Supervisory Board, and ultimately the management of the Slovenian Railways, are also well aware of their responsibilities and the tasks they have, that these problems are presented on the open table and that this is being discussed openly. Here I see the quality that has never been possible before. Everything that has happened in the past has been hidden to the public's eyes. These discussions, both by the owners' representatives in the supervisory board and management, are open and I see a higher quality here than before. I think that both the management and the supervisory board have done their job properly. But I think that the problem that comes a long way back has to do with the situation that we've found. Once again, I refer to the missing funds that were finally identified at the beginning of the mandate, which were as an unknown fact, and I expected that we would be able to manage this system sooner than we could. The 25 billion tolars found in the cash register in the railway area were impossible to recover in one step or at one time or in a short time. We did what was possible. Of course, I expect that in the next steps that I have also announced, we will fully resolve this issue in the interest of the State in order to ensure the functioning of the rail system in a safe, efficient manner and that this trend, which continues and is positive in terms of the cargo carried and in terms of the end of the passengers transported, can be even greater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Happy Friend will ask a question from the Minister of Defence. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I have already asked you several times: When will we adequately address open problems, human rights irregularities and other irregularities at the Ministry? Something, I have to admit, you did. Certain matters have been resolved in a less satisfying way, but I would remind you of the greatest things we have not touched at all. Mr Janša, then Minister of Defence, promised to respect their pay grade, the post-systematisation classes, as was then in force under the existing acts, to all offenders who had crossed the line. That didn't happen later. It was followed by degradation. Today we have a series of unresolved issues, thousands and several lawsuits in court. In a specific case, because you asked me to send it to you, I sent you four cases, two of which are still pending. Although they embody the diversity of this issue, they are not alone. Printed by Bratin Slavomir and Slaver Bozidar are two cases that suggest that this should not happen. In particular, he was the last high-ranking expert in military circles, considered to be an instructor and a maintenance man, including aircraft, but later landed as a builder’s master. The latest irregularities in the Slovenian Army alert you in an open letter in the Command of the third operational 17th Battalion of the Military Police, where there are apparently many crimes. And the fact is, those responsible were still rewarded for these acts. If I move to another important area that you should also cover with full responsibility, that is essentially fire safety. We know that in hotels, hospitals and other industrial facilities, we all know fire extinguishers, they don't work. Even in the letter you're answering when you've been warned about this, I have a letter here that's very arrogant, so you're saying that fires don't start because of the sprayer's inaction, which we know is not true. The military can be claimed to be [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] corruption, as well as immorality, if you look at the newspapers of erotic magazines, you can also see beautiful soldiers in need or almost undressed. I ask you: When will you cover another area? [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u112	Time's up. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u113	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Thank you for the question, honourable Member. Dear Members and Members! The questions you've asked are a little different than those I've received, but it's no big deal. First of all, with regard to personnel matters at the Ministry of Defence, we are preparing a reorganisation of the administrative work of the Ministry of Defence, where we want to properly organise the administrative work to support the new situation, that is to say the professionalisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the fact that we must carry out certain tasks related to our NATO membership. All tasks will be reviewed in the context of this reorganisation and staff will be properly deployed in administrative work. With regard to the fact that there are several thousand lawsuits, let me say that this statement is not correct. The lawsuits are over 300. But it's true that we have 1,800 contracts. In this regard, a special group of lawyers has been set up since January 2006 to deal intensively with these objections. However, I must say that it is interesting that some refuse to work in this working group despite the Minister's appointment of the team. This may also point to philosophy in this ministry. However, we will also resolve this issue. With regard to two specific cases. You stated that someone who specializes in aircraft maintenance is now performing works as a builder. I have to say that I don't really understand this as well as possible, but I am going to make sure that this is true because it seems almost impossible to do so. Unless there are any security concerns and it is therefore unable to perform certain parts because this is related to a security reservation. But as I say, we're going to go over this case separately. As far as the state of the military police is concerned, I agree. It's a bad situation. There are also several charges against members of the military police. In particular, when it comes to data relating to formal education, a number of cases were discovered when these documents were falsified. As you know, the new Chief of Staff has been appointed and one of the first tasks is to reorganise the military police in the sense that certain staff exchanges are carried out within the framework of establishing a new organisation. With regard to fire safety, I must say that this is the area in which we have been paying even more attention over the past two years, and the funds have increased significantly. Only this year for 350 million SITs. In this area, I do not see any particular problems. You know our plans, we have met several times in Sežana, where we are building a training centre for Western Slovenia, and I know you know the problem well. With regard to corruption in the Slovenian Army and so on, what you mentioned at the end is serious, serious accusations. I hope you're not summarizing what the Directive says, but that you have some specific cases. Then we will give it to the competent authorities to deal with this. But if that is not the case, you do not have such evidence, but I would like this part of your statement withdrawn because it is too much of a word for a system like the Slovenian Army. I don't think we can discuss the Slovenian Army in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u114	Would you like an additional answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The questions cannot be different, simply not because I have asked you about this once before and even asked me to provide you with additional documents that will show the actual state of what I said. You've got this, you've solved two cases correctly, one in full, two in all, but you're not aware of the diversity of this problem. I've been telling you that in fact you have no respect for the signed decisions, that you have even demolished people who have pledged loyalty, and that you have damaged them materially. That's interesting. The documents are even lost. As far as statements are concerned: I will not withdraw anything, not because you yourself have admitted that criminal charges have also been filed on your part and that there has indeed been an irregularity. You have more than a normal number of lawsuits and I don't know why you don't once look at your legal, human resources service, what it does to you in writing decisions, that you really have so many decisions on your work relationships. This is simply incomprehensible. And that on a "low dog," on a low level -- so not on a low dog -- "on a dog," is a fact. Open the daily papers and you'll see. I mean, it's more than shocking that we can actually afford what daily newspapers say about the Slovenian Army. Last but not least, recent cases show that it does not act in accordance with the Slovenian national interests. Today, quite a few speakers here have pointed to you in essence directly, direct questions about also possible corruption - the acquisition of weapons. You know, it's not possible to get past this and keep your eyes closed indefinitely; it's just that some things are gonna have to be handled and solved. I am more than honest, specific cases, which are also supported by the judgment of a court which you did not take into account as minister and you did not want to carry out - more than I can give you. Excuse me, Minister, who's kidding, me or you?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u116	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u117	Thank you for the opportunity to explain further. Let me say that such judgments, which I would not have carried out as Minister, do not exist, but I will also check this, just in case, because this is unacceptable from the point of view of the rule of law. With regard to criminal charges, let me say that they are not brought about by corruption, so I insist that you give me a specific example that we will process the procedure. Now, what are the newspapers like the Directive, etc., I wouldn't comment, but I'm glad we've solved three cases already, as you said, and I hope we'll solve those two cases too. I'm going to take a look at these two cases in particular, so I don't think there should be any problem with the abuse of the law, we're going to sort this out. But if that's not the case, then it's impossible to fix it, because we can't give anyone something that doesn't belong to him by law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u118	Please, please. Can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u119	I would like to draw attention to the right under Article 246 to take advantage of the call for special treatment on this subject, because the Minister's replies have not satisfied me. So, Minister, see to say that, when weapons from the military disappear, it is not a corrupt act, that nothing has happened, while some have been beating the Slovenian flag, and we have not yet resolved that, given that you have such and other immorals, I will say, standards in the ranks of the Slovenian Army; and that you do not respect even the courts that issue legal decisions; while in fact it is a suspicious acquisition of basic funds for the military, that you are actually damaging even the national interests and that you are also damaging the economy of the Republic of Slovenia by giving someone a third advantage. The fact that they're turning into a cellophane, and we put the ointment up, it's not enough to make everything okay. In fact, I would like to define matters in the Ministry of Defence in a joint debate and to discuss and open up all open issues. Because what happens to you is not normal, to say the least. It's an abnormal state, and in fact nothing flatters you, and it doesn't do you any good. Thus, Mr Vice-President, I demand that this be voted on and that special time be devoted to the issue, which is more than evident at the Ministry of Defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u120	Thank you very much. With regard to the Rules of Procedure, I inform you that your proposal has been adopted or that we will vote on your proposal tomorrow at the time of the vote. Mr Anton Kokalj has the floor to ask the Minister of Transport and the Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u121	Since this is the same content, I will ask both ministers the same question, and then I would ask if each of them can answer it from their own perspective. The problem of two petrol stations at the section Vrba-Crnivec is said to be in the construction of the highway, the mountain highway, this work that is still missing. The Radovljica Environmental Protection Society and its civil initiative for a previously built and cheaper highway has been working for more than six years to avoid these petrol stations being built in this section. There are currently over 750 statements against pumps; not only against this, they also disagree with the toll station on this location and the undercarriage as planned. I ask: Is there any economic and other reason for this installation of pumps, given that this is a relatively dense solubility, and this would be a distance of about 40 kilometres, given that some of the standards of these facilities are usually a little larger in Europe. Even in the study, as far as I know what Dars is referring to, the written opinion is not favoured by these pumps, not for economic reasons, but for environmental and spatial reasons. This was clearly the case in the previous term, in the mandate of the previous government for some kind of trade, if I may say so. Almost two mandates were strongly opposed by the municipal council and the Radovljica motorway commission, as were three additional underpasses under the highway and two more under the highway. The pumps are surrounded by Radovljica connection, which is also an expert report advised solution. In June 2004, despite the opposition’s obstruction, the municipal council gave a positive opinion on the proposal for a national site plan, despite a few years of opposition. In September 2004, the Government adopted a regulation on the Vrba-Crnilec motorway. In August 2005, the company wrote a petition to Mr Podobnik, signed by the entire municipal opposition and some civil society, and in April they also proposed a solution and presented to the government an initiative for the meaningful use of the tolerant Article of the Regulation. I ask: Will you propose to the government to amend the regulation and thus try to achieve a compromise solution with this civil initiative? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u122	Here you go. Both ministers have five minutes together. Please, Mr. Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u123	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the question. I hope I don't spend too much time with Minister Sponik. An integral part of the highway network is also the area for accompanying activities along motorways. Areas for accompanying activities are needed for the supply of gas-road users and also offer opportunities for rest and recreation, while commercial and catering facilities offer food products, tourist products, exchange office and the provision of tourist information. As a result, areas for accompanying activities are also planned within the motorway. Only petrol services within the motorway regime can provide an adequate level of service to the users of the motorway, through the impact on the operating time and with direct accessibility without leaving the motorway. The section of the Vrba-Peračica motorway was located within the framework of the State Location Plan Regulation, which also includes the location of the two-sided petrol service in the Radovljica connection area. The intended location of the two-sided petrol service includes parking spaces for passenger cars and tourist buses, recreational areas, a gas station and tourist information. The location was determined in accordance with a study of the following following motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, supplemented by 1996 to 2003, where an optimum distance between gas services is proposed between 25 and 30 kilometres. Given that the planned location of the petrol service is 27 kilometres from the Torova gas service and 20 kilometres from the Jesenice gas service, the location chosen by taking into account spatial data is optimal, which also confirmed the subsequent verification of the installation of the petrol service in the space between the Bezje connection and the Viaduct Dobruš. The verification was carried out in February 2004 on the basis of a decision of the municipal council of Radovljica. The presentation of Radovljica connection to the pre-trace field resulted in a combination of Radovljica connection and the two-sided petrol service. In accordance with the requirements and decisions adopted by the municipal council of Radovljica, the original design of the petrol service was amended to the following extent: instead of external accessible ramps, internal ramps will be implemented to reduce interventions to nearby agricultural areas. In the area between the highway route and the internal ramp, counter-group bulkheads will be made to protect the space for rest and recreation and the existing local road, allowing local traffic to access the petrol service, with a physical separation from the traffic on the highway. Unfortunately, I cannot agree with the view that similar supply facilities are built at a distance of 50 kilometres or more. Supply centres on the highway network of Germany, Austria, Italy and Spain and France, most developed in the EU, are built at an average distance of 25 kilometres. You can check this information on any global advisory network that is accessible to the European road guide, most famous of which is Michelinov. The Ministry of Transport has on several occasions expressed its view that the proposal to amend the local plan regulation would not be submitted, since, given the catastrophic traffic situation in the Radovljica area and, above all, the more than a decade-long politicisation of addressing the problem of putting the route past Radovljica, this would be a major step back for the start of the construction of the Vrba-Peračica motorway, according to our deep conviction, a minimum of five years. 75,000 vehicles are rolling past Radovljica during the summer tourist season and it might be wise to ask the townspeople of this town what they think about this type of pollution of the environment and emissions of harmful substances due to unsustainable transport into their living space right next to the current main road, that I am not even talking about traffic chaos. The State Location Plan Regulation allows the construction phase and the Ministry of Transport will not oppose the decision not to build or build gas services at the first stage of the motorway construction. As a result, the regulation does not need to be amended as it allows this possibility through the construction phase. Decisions on whether or not a gas service will be built cannot be taken by our ministry, but only concessionaire Dars, based on his contractual relationship with the future owner of both petrol services. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u124	Would you like an additional answer? 36 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u125	Thank you very much. In 36 seconds, there's something to be said. Like a fellow magician said. Christmas, not the amendment of the DLN Regulation, but the use of an article on tolerances under which different arrangements are allowed. And the regulation itself also lays down the conditions and solutions for placing a petrol service in the space and allows the investor to obtain a building permit for it and does not oblige him to actually build the facility. Therefore, the decision not to build a petrol service or to plan any more cost-effective connection in the regulatory area of DLN does not require any change in the national location plan. In other words, I said what my fellow mags said before. Christmas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u126	Would you like an additional answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u127	Thank you very much. It certainly wasn't the intention of my intervention to change the location plan. I think that here is the intention of a civil initiative, and also almost half of the municipal world, in that only certain things that have been adopted are trying to be negotiated by reaching some consensus. From this point of view, I appeal, not only from the point of view of the issue of petrol pumps, but also the locations of the main station where this civil initiative comes with concrete proposals. And from this point of view, I would appeal to both ministers to try, of course, through their powers and services, for which they are, in some way, equally responsible or cooperate with them. [[Dars was mentioned earlier]] , achieve a compromise option at least on which of these segments, which are so exposed in a civil initiative, from undercarriage to petrol pumps as well as possible movement of the frontal station, which I think is well-founded. Of course, it also disturbs the fact that the implementing contracts for certain matters have already been signed and the building permit has not yet been signed. A comment on this may not be too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u128	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u129	Thank you very much for the opportunity for further clarification. Very briefly. True, contracts for construction works are signed. This means that the building is full of glass, and this means that we have a valid building permit, purchased land, so that it is possible to optimize only within the framework of what you have said, within the framework of the building permit. As far as the issue of trains and exports is concerned, I believe that this issue is of a substantive nature and in this case the change regulation on the local plan should be amended. With regard to the location of the toll station and also of all other accompanying facilities, I do not think it is possible to amend it at this time, given the tolerance and definition of the location plan or regulation. In addition to what I have said, I would like to see, within the framework of cooperative cooperation and in particular in contacts, initiatives that are understandable to try, in fact, within the framework of the possibilities offered by law and allowing the regulation to actually approach positive approaches here. I will also order Dars in this name, which has not already been said many times, and contacts have also been in recent weeks to try to find the best compromise solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u130	Ms Cveta Zalokar Orazem will ask the Minister of Health a question. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, well-respected ministerial assembly! Current developments around the purchase of 18 operating tables have also raised the issue of the usability of replaced 38 tables at the Clinical Center. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, I proposed a decision at the meeting of the Health Committee on the public procurement of the operating tables, inter alia, because of the unreceivable response, calling on the Ministry of Health to inform the committee within 30 days of the report on the further use of the 38 tables when they were replaced by new tables at the Clinical Centre. All of our proposals, including this, were expected to be unvoted. So on this occasion, Mr. Bručan, I ask you: Where did the alternate tables of the Clinical Center go? Let me freshen up the story a little bit. Three years ago, 38 operating tables were replaced at the clinical centre, and the exchange cost taxpayers 1.1 billion tolars, more than the 18 we are talking about now. There was no public contract at all, at first it was only about renewal and investment maintenance, but later it ended with the purchase of new tables by the Aico-Med supplier. The Ministry of Health’s special commission at that time found that it was not necessary to replace all tables at all, since 9 of the total 38 tables were purchased in 1990 and later, meaning that these were relatively new tables. Otherwise, the tables were overpaid and public finances were then damaged by several hundred million. We were able to understand from the media's statements that some of the tables needed minor repairs had been moved to smaller outpatient rooms, some of them were supposed to be obtained by Slovenian hospitals, some of them were supposed to be waiting in the basement for destruction. At the same time, it was explained that none of the hospitals had used the tables offered. In short, it is not possible to identify or understand from the media what is actually the correct information on the fate of these tables. With all the current developments, we can conclude that the previous tables are not spent, at least the nine not younger ones, are certainly useful, and as the legislative branch of the authorities we cannot directly ask for an answer to the story, so we hope to receive it through the Ministry or Minister Bručan. That's why I'm asking you, Minister: What exactly happened to the 38 operating tables that were replaced at the Clinical Center three years ago?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u132	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u133	Thank you very much for the question, Madam Members. Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Events around these old 38 operating tables at the Clinical Center have been in the debate for a long time and recently again. The last official record of the condition of these tables was from November 2003, then presented by the Commission and at that time there were all these 38 tables in storage. Later in 2004, due to the depreciation of all these 38 operating tables, that is to say, in 2004, when Mr Hočevar was Director and Mr Keber was Minister. At that time Mr. Hočevar, after writing off these tables, offered operating tables, whole or parts of tables, to all units at the Clinical Centre and other hospitals in Slovenia. In the last time these stories started again from that past period, we have studied intensively where these tables are today, even on the basis of that last question of yours on the Health Committee, and have received the following answers that I now call here, but the answers sent by the Clinical Center are the answers, and the whole research thing is not quite finished. Since the question has come today, I will tell you the information that is known today. On 24 August 2004, 12 operating tables were taken over by the General Hospital in Jesenice. After talking to the professional director of this hospital, none of the tables are in use. They're all like written off, stored in the warehouse of an autumn hospital. Why did the hospital accept 12 operating tables at the time, six fixed and six mobile phones when there are only four operating rooms, I don't really understand. You'll have to ask those who talked about it at the time. One operating table was purchased on 30 November 2004 by Buba, Pink Valley 5, Grosupelj for 20,000 dollars and 20% tax. Buba is a veterinary station, probably using it in veterinary medicine. In March 2004, eight operating tables were taken over by the Gynecological Clinic. One operating table is used today for minor procedures - abortions, and seven operating tables are stored in a storehouse of gynecological clinics in Leonište. These seven tables, which are no longer as useful as operating tables, wanted to turn them into investigative gynecological tables, but then it turned out to be too expensive. One operating table was brought to dialysis in January 2004 as an investigative table. One operating table went to rheumatology as an investigative table, two operating tables took over the clinical department for abdominal surgery in 2004 and used for endoscopy. Two operating tables were taken over by a clinical section for thoracic surgery, one served as an investigative table in the department, and the other in the warehouse was useless. One operating table was taken over by the hospital Trbovlje and after talking to the professional director this table should be restored and the cost is too high, so the table has not been used at all. 10 tables are dismantled, stored in the Clinical Center, which are useless, at least according to what I got from the Clinical Center, I haven't checked them myself yet. However, they are stored with no value or in the opinion of the Clinical Centre only as much value as the value of that iron, otherwise they have no value. That's the information I'm getting right now. But I must say, I will continue this investigation at the Clinical Center regarding the tables. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u134	Would you like an additional answer? Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will put the question to the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Many of our citizens are employed outside the borders of our country and are thus saving their lives. In particular, many such people come from the Styria region, i.e. the region where I come from, the Municipality of Šentilj, Kungota, Pesnica, the newly formed Municipality of Apaca, Gornja Radgona - that is, the Pomur region, the Koro region and all other demographically endangered municipalities, where work is particularly difficult to obtain. I have recently received a petition in which these citizens who are residents and who work abroad state that they will be financially heavily burdened by payment of income because they are treated unevenly against other citizens, as they are not subject to a duty paid by a foreign country in the calculation of the tax base on income, and not even to the cost of transport to work and food. These amounts are so large that they can cause real family tragedies, and many think of leaving work abroad because it is simply not worth doing abroad. This can cause thousands of new unemployed people, which our country certainly does not want. In addition, it should be pointed out that these citizens are deprived of the many benefits that the state of Slovenia offers to other citizens. They thus have the right to only the lowest child allowances, they pay the full price for kindergartens, their students and students have no opportunity to obtain scholarships, their mothers of parents working abroad do not have the right to one-year maternity leave, but they can only be at home 8 weeks before and after birth without any adequate financial assistance. Personally, I must point out that, as a Member coming from this environment, I am truly concerned, even after yesterday's meeting in the Apache congregation, where there were a lot of people from this environment who are burdened by this problem. And the answers given do not, in my opinion, solve the integrity of the problem. So, Mr. Secretary-General, Dr. Bayuk, I ask you: Who and when did he introduce taxation based on the principle of global income, which is obviously poorly regulated and thus guilty of the problems of these people? Ter: What are the proposals and actions of the Ministry of Finance for a comprehensive solution to these people's problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u136	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u137	Thank you very much. On your particular question, who and when introduced the principle of universal income: this was introduced by this National Assembly on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the law adopted in 2004. But the fact is, it's not like a Slovenian unique. This principle is introduced in all OCD countries and that we have had it in the past. However, we also need to clarify certain principled things. Taxation of all income of individuals and also of legal persons is in the tax jurisdiction of each individual country. Each State shall have the right to determine the taxable person, subject to taxation, tax base, tax rate and method of tax collection. When it comes to the taxation of the income of natural persons, all OCD countries, as well as other countries, have designated as taxpayer a resident of the country and for the subject of taxation the income of the resident, wherever it is achieved, this is a principle of universality. The fundamental basis of this principle is that it is appropriate for residents who benefit from the public goods provided by the State of residence to pay taxes in this country. Already with the Income Act adopted on 20 May 2004, a limited scope of taxation on global income was established, and the concept was fully built up by a new law on income. In accordance with this principle, the residents of Slovenia are obliged to pay their income from all their incomes, regardless of where they acquire these incomes and the non-residents from the incomes obtained in Slovenia. The tax liability of an individual therefore depends on whether or not he is a resident of Slovenia. The Income Act also lays down the conditions to be met by a natural person in order to be considered a resident of Slovenia. In certain cases where natural persons acquire income in one country but are residents of another country, there may be situations in which they have the right to tax certain income, in a particular case of income from employment, they own two countries; that is the country where the income has been achieved and the country where the recipient of the income is resident. In order to eliminate such double taxation of the same income, a mechanism has been incorporated into the Income Act to ensure double taxation of the same income and double taxation is also eliminated through international agreements on the elimination of double taxation of income. In a specific case where the residents of Slovenia are employed in another country, for example Austria, the Income Act allows double taxation of income from employment to be prevented by the tax to be paid by the resident of Slovenia from income generated in Austria in Slovenia by the tax already paid in Austria. If such incomes are taxed at a lower rate in Austria than in Slovenia, the resident of Slovenia, who achieves such income, must pay the difference to the rate that would apply to the taxation of his income if he were taxed only in Slovenia. In this way, the tax on income from employment of residents of Slovenia is generally the same, regardless of whether residents receive income in Slovenia or abroad, which ensures the equal position of all natural persons who are tax residents of Slovenia. It is therefore not the case that Slovenia does not recognise the tax already paid to its residents in another country on the taxation of income from employment. This was also explained extensively on Saturday evening at that meeting, where about seven hundred people were in Apache. As regards the tax treatment of the reimbursement of labour costs, this is an explanation already made by the Ministry of Finance, together with the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia, on the payment of transport costs to and from work and on the food received by the resident of Slovenia from a working relationship abroad, according to which these workers are subject to the relevant provisions of the Regulation in the amount of the reimbursement of labour costs and other income that are not yet included in the tax base, while the taxable person is recognised for those days when he has actually been present in the workplace abroad. Thus, the residents of Slovenia are now treated in the same tax way as the other residents of the Republic of Slovenia in respect of the reimbursement of labour costs abroad. It is also important that in the new tax legislation, which is being drawn up, as you know, part of the whole programme of amendments or reforms adopted by the government, we will make this clear. The question was, what to do with the cases of income in 2005, when this was interpreted differently. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] And this interpretation, which was issued last week, ensures that these costs will be included and that we will ensure the principle of equality of all before the law, including those of our residents who work in Austria, where they do not know [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone!]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u138	Mr. Secretary, time's up. Would you like an additional answer? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u139	Dear Mr. Secretary! With regard to your answer to my basic question, I would like to stress that the problem of global income taxation arises mainly when Slovenian citizens earn most of their income in a country with an average salary of several times higher than in Slovenia. Then, automatically, when applying for income in Slovenia, according to the principle of world income, Slovenian citizen falls into a higher income scale than he had when paying an income advance abroad [[For example, Austria, Germany, Italy]] . The situation is that additional income should be paid to the Slovenian State from a net salary. This is an incomprehensible situation for most citizens, which probably does not bring net benefits to Slovenia. It is known that Croatians have already adopted an arrangement in 1991 whereby their nationals, returnees, natives, temporary workers abroad do not pay the final income higher than they have paid the income advance abroad. Therefore, Minister, I hope that you will seek solutions in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u140	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I think that there is another dimension missing in your presentation, and that is that, if anything, this data actually shows the incomprehensibility of the degree of progressiveity that our legislation on income recognises. And one of the key elements of the reform agenda is that we will actually balance this progressiveness, to what extent we can balance, but it depends on concrete analyses and other objectives that this country must meet at the same time. This is the question whether we are going to reduce this progression to this extent, as indicated at the starting point for a change in income tax, a single tax rate or not, or whether we are going to reduce this progression to such a extent that we can ensure sustainability, social sustainability of the transition as well as the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia since 26 August last year, and that we will not have such a loss of revenue that would actually put into debt problems that we as a country have with regard to the Stability and Growth Pact, that is to say, the financial stability of the public financial situation in Slovenia. We will also go in this direction in any way to reduce progress, to a lesser extent, and then the differences will be as clear to us as they are in this case. And I would add that certain social rights, which are not all so negative - it is true, as you mentioned, that the neighbouring state of Austria does not know such compensation or allowance in the case of birth, when a woman is born and a one-year maternity leave is not known elsewhere in the world, it is only a Slovenian specialty, so long as one year, and on the other hand there are allowances for children whom we know here and which this government has introduced and this national assembly has recently accepted, which also compensates us to a large extent for such cases. In any case, we are going to a new situation, and in return this is the explanation that the Ministry, together with the management of the tax administration, has already provided to the public, and partly saves things for the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u142	Mr Ljubo Germič will ask the Minister for Education and Sport and the Minister for Public Administration a question. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! So, in the area of basic education, we have adopted several laws that were, inter alia, justified by the need to take very rational care of the use of public funds, so we have adopted a so-called change in the concept and sense of external knowledge verification, and so today, in this rationality, we have the most expensive knowledge verification system, which serves as feedback, with this external knowledge verification no longer having a function in transition from primary to secondary school. At the same time, with the same argument, we also adopted a legislative amendment when we talked about introducing additional forms of differentiation in terms of the abolition of low-level teaching, and now that we are also looking at the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on children's guidance with special needs, we can see that certain rights of these laws are also justified by rational use of public funds. On the other hand, we have also adopted a law in this mandate, an intervention law, on a system of public sector wages, where we have in fact shared a unified view that there is a need to regulate unwarranted high wages and directors' awards in the public sector. And on the basis of this law, first of all, of course, the upper value of these salaries has been temporarily adjusted and the basis of this law has also been laid down for the adoption of a regulation that would definitively regulate and place all directors in the public sector in wage classes and, of course, regulate the evaluation methodology. However, when I monitored the monthly salary figures for March in April, the fact that the Director of the Centre for Vocational Education had a seventh-place salary on this scale will be in her eyes. Thus, wages were paid over all ministers worth 1 million 439 355 Slovenian tolars. I therefore ask both ministers: Can I explain the composition of this salary to the Director in question and is the fact that the Director has been paid this high value on the basis of the estimated work performance?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u144	Here you are, Mr. Minister, Dr. Virant. Both ministers have five minutes available.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u145	Thank you very much. It's a very fitting question. The pay was actually paid at this level, as you said, but about 500,000 of this was paid illegally. Since 1 March we have a new system of directors' salaries in the public sector, things are regulated and transparent. Every month, our ministry checks according to AIPES data, or any of these salaries, about 1,900 directors, does not deviate from what is stipulated in the regulation. In these first months, we are primarily checking those top-ranking salaries if they occur, and as soon as we find out, we request this information from the department, or we request that information back on the composition of the salary, so that we can verify that it has been paid legally. And that information that you mentioned stabbed us, or fell into our eyes, so the Ministry of Education immediately went into check, found that payments should be paid substantially lower. And, of course, the Ministry will also benefit from sanctions, the possibilities offered by the Public Sector Wage System Act from 1.7 last year, which will be explained by a fellow Minister of the Beast.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u146	Here you go, Minister Beast.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. Thank you for asking, too. As my colleague Virant has already mentioned, the salary has indeed been illegally paid. I reacted before you asked the question, so I ordered the company's world to eliminate the illegality of paying the wages. It was about the fact that last December the new director, who took up the job, had already requested payment of the work performance just before the end of February for certain reasons. I have already made it clear and loudly that there is no legal basis for anything similar, but for reasons unknown to me later, the Council of the Institute confirmed, adopted such a decision and came to a realization. The fact is that today the Council of the Institute has held a meeting to address my warnings and repeal the illegal decision and have adopted an additional decision that it will have to pay back the overpaid salary, or that 502.179 tolars, which is supposed to be a performance allowance for the past period. Here the rules are perfectly clear and I do not know why there has been such a drastic breach of legislation, but in the coming days I will examine the matter thoroughly and, if necessary, also certain sanctions or human resources measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Do you want an additional reply? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Just for closure. From what has been said, I think it is clear that the salaries of directors in the public sector are under control and that the system works.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u150	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I hope that it has been so, that my question in question is only an explanation of the events that are taking place in this area. But I'd like to ask myself another question about this subject. In view of the fact that, in accordance with the Regulation on the salaries of directors in the public sector, which in Article 10 speaks of the need for criteria and for the determination of the level of part of the remuneration for the performance of the director, it is necessary for the competent minister to lay down those criteria by no later than 1.3.2006, in accordance with paragraph 4 of Article 22 of the Law on the Public Sector System of Wages. I also checked to see if it was done. I would ask the Minister, Dr. Beast, in view of the fact that I have found these criteria for a number of ministries in the Ministry's review, but I have not found these criteria to be adopted by the Ministry of Education and Sport by this time-limit, and I wonder: Is the review of the rules on the criteria in my records incorrect and this ministry has also done so, but if it has not done so, why not and until when? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u152	Look, I wouldn't answer that question right now because there might be something wrong with a date, but I don't think you're right. Allow me to answer this additional question in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister! On 16 February this year, at the home work body of the National Assembly, the Labour Committee, the Family and Social Affairs Committee and the Disabled, we discussed the issue of the implementation of the parenting activity in our country, where you were not least present and presented your views, it is said, by the competent minister. As part of the debate at that time, I drew attention to the crucial role of the social work centres, which should be carried out in the framework of foster care, which is all too often neglected. I also drew attention to the issue of control over work for social work as well as the work of foster parents or the situation in foster families. The issue of questionable standards for the implementation of fostering activities was also raised or raised, as it is too often the case that persons who meet legal requirements are unable to provide adequate assistance to their parents and foster parents; in short, they do not have adequate professional skills. That the breeding area was poorly regulated and incomplete, they also warned the foster parents themselves, who also highlighted the need for professionally guided acquisition of additional knowledge and skills in working with foster parents and foster parents. On the basis of this meeting, specifically in April, I asked a written question, on 21 April 2006, to which you actually answered in two sentences - what is important. I will quote: "The legal arrangements for compulsory training provide foster parents with the necessary and comprehensive knowledge to carry out the foster work. If there is a need for new knowledge or new content in the future, we will complement you." End of quote. At this point, I remind you that specific warnings have been given, specifically at this meeting of the home working body, and you have also received numerous written complaints, comments and warnings. Last but not least, I ask you, Mr. Secretary, and I will read: "The training of new caregivers in our country lasts 12 hours, those with any qualifications, the most dangerous game for butchers, sewing, baking, pastry. And for the training of those who are already foster parents, within five years of a total of 20 to 25 hours, for the protection and upbringing of foreign children, of whom 33% of them have been recognised as such or otherwise and have been placed in a foster family, which, of course, has the care and responsibility of the State of the Republic of Slovenia even after the constitution. I ask you, Minister, when are you going to join the changes in this area?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u155	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u156	Thank you very much. In order to control the foster care in Slovenia we have the law necessary to do so, this is the law on social protection and inspection. That's assured. Vocational training shall also be provided to that minimum extent. But if you think we're going to change the law so that we can then require a special professional education to carry out the foster care, then of course I'll tell you: no. Such initiatives have been taken in the National Assembly. In order to carry out foster care in the family, that is, in the family, it is especially important that the family be groomed and that this motherly or fatherly feeling is appropriate, not that it has a high education. That, I think, is a clear solution. For we do not want things to take place in an orphanage or something like that, so we have also strongly rejected some initiatives on the placement of children in such institutions. We argue that our care management system is adequate, but we will probably strengthen the part of the training that will ensure better implementation within families. We are also opposed to all those initiatives aimed at making a profit in order to do so through economic activity. This must be done within families in the way that any child is cared for, we are also committed to an international standard, and in this way we approach them as closely as possible. So, professional supervision, too. I do not accept lump sums, negative ones, for the work of social work centres. You also know that in the event of a decision being made, then after the installation to ensure that an appropriate committee is provided to monitor the child in foster care. Thus, this monitoring is not dependent on just one person, but it is multidisciplinary, which can help a family or foster parents offer appropriate help, advice, counseling, so that the child is installed in accordance with a law that feels good, just as it is in the family.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u157	Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Minister. I believe you know you've been deceiving the answer. The subject of my question was not profit, but was intended or promised to change if changes in this area were to be made. The calls of foster parents and foster parents tend to do so, not because of higher or higher education, but because of their professional qualifications, if necessary. And given that it is an important institution, which was not last adopted by our State of the Republic of Slovenia by the Constitution, it is necessary for the State to treat this institution responsibly. Last but not least, it's children coming from troubled families, and as I said, 33% of these families have different disorders, it's 5% easier to hurt children, 7% of children with emotional disorders, and last but not least, children are abused among these children and heart culture, unfortunately, not enough, Minister. Another issue that also relates to the field of fostering. From the minutes of the 13th regular meeting of the Management Committee of the Community of Centres for Social Work of Slovenia of 16 May 2006, it is clear that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs last year terminated the contract for training of the Centres for Social Work of Domžale, which was concluded on the basis of the choice of the contractor from the invitation to tender for the period 2004 to 2008. Minister, I ask why and on what basis a new provider of such training will be selected. Specifically: Will you assign this function to the new training provider without or without a call?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u159	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u160	Thank you very much. First, on the last part of the question whether this implementation will be entrusted to a public institution. These are professionals at social work centres, so you know very well that there is no call for proposals. However, it is necessary to set the standards that will implement this. And that's exactly what was problematic about training in the past tense. At the same time, however, it was poorly organised, so that some of this system failed completely unjustifiably, and some have accumulated obligations, making it difficult for them to carry out their other obligations. As has already been said, if it is carried out by a social work centre, which is a public institution, then it is certainly not necessary to make an invitation to tender. In fact, the Ministry shall grant or conclude a contract for the implementation of this programme, which shall highlight what this programme contains, which shall be prepared by the experts and shall then do so. Since these things cost, of course, one way or another, then this must be ensured. About the abuse. Yes, the newspapers said it was about abuse, but they were ordinary slanders, where it was then found that in those cases - now I will not mention a specific case - supervision runs well, that the commission is monitoring and that the truth has not been published in the media. That this group has worked well for this foster child and therefore the right form of responsibility has been established.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u161	Please, do you have any suggestions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u162	Thank you very much. In accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I would also like to take advantage of the possibility of a wider debate at the meeting, in particular on the issue of fostering in our country. Minister, you yourself said that the contract issued on the basis of the invitation to tender of the Centre for Social Work was cancelled because there was an irregularity. You're bringing yourself into some kind of contradiction. On the other hand, you find that there are no irregularities in the area of fostering in our country. I have pointed out some irregularities, and irregularities are also noted by herds and foster parents. They point out that they want to, they need additional expertise. It's not about education, Minister, it's about additional expertise. And when you mention how there is no invitation to tender for the implementation of this type of training task when it comes to implementation through social work centres, the former social work centre operator Domžale was selected on the basis of a call for proposals [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u163	Madam Member, this was a procedural issue. Please make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u164	I would like to clarify the procedural question that I will then be able to form it so that they will know what to vote on tomorrow. [[Back-up advertising.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u165	Mr. Secretary, you don't have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u166	Let me finish, Minister. You mentioned that no invitation to tender is required for implementation when it comes to a social work centre. In a specific case, a call was made and the selected Centre for Social Work of Domžale, which was the only one meeting the tender documentation. In this case, as far as I am aware, and therefore I think that Members and Members of the National Assembly have also been informed, you intend to hand over training to professional workers of social work centres under copyright contracts. This activity is expected to be carried out in the future by the Community of Centres for Social Work under the copyright contracts, which are estimated at 40 to 50 million Slovenian tolls of budgetary money. This is the information that comes to the public that is evident from the minutes and on the basis of which I now claim that a broader debate is needed or that there is a need for changes in the field of fostering in our country. I therefore propose that this be voted on tomorrow and that a broader debate be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u167	Members of the National Assembly will vote on your proposal tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Mr Franz Kangler will raise a question of the delegation to the Minister of Defence. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! It may be a little strange that it was up to me to ask the Minister of Defence a question, but I would like to explain in the introduction that I have decided to ask this question for a number of reasons. The first reason is that I have been fighting the centralisation that has been happening in this country for many years. The second reason is that I visited this region alone as a functionary of the Football Association of Maribor and in some ways also met the economy. The third reason, however, is that I was stabbed by your statement, which was written in one of the Slovenian newspapers that you gave when purchasing 136 Finnish armoured personnel, for example; we chose Patrio because these vehicles are more cost-effective and because the business will have a good effect on the Slovenian economy. Of course, in what way will the business affect the Slovenian economy? In the second statement, you also said that 320 jobs would be given the opportunity directly and indirectly to 1920 jobs. Where and how did you get these numbers? On the other hand, how will this business - 63 billion tolars - affect the economy in Koroška? A respected colleague and colleague who has not been to Koroška, who does not know the situation in Koroška, may then think so. I am convinced that the government should make sure that, even with jobs such as the acquisition of vehicles, the economy in this region, such as Koroška, develops a little bit more. And I listened thoroughly and substantively to the debate presented to the Prime Minister, where he spoke about the ownership structure of the System Technology. Sir, I don't care who owns it at all, but I'm interested that the workers in that region will keep their jobs, that they will have their daily bread and that they will have social security. Social security is at risk in this region. And not only in this region, we can talk about Prekmurje and we can talk about Styria. So I don't care who and how he spends 63 billion tolars. Finally, I ask: Does the Slovenian Army really need 136 armoured men? It's like we don't have any armor today, like we're not in combat readiness or we don't have trained units, like we're refitting our units completely. 136 armoured personnel in one such period [[End warning sign]] That's too big a number. I can only say this based on those times, the times of 1991, when I was able to see in my eyes what kind of protection is the most appropriate way in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u169	You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u170	Thank you for the question, honourable Member. I am very pleased with this question because I think we will resolve certain dilemmas. First of all, why do we need these armors 8x8. Let me say that in the context of joining the union then we have committed ourselves to form two middle battalion groups, and this is possible to form with heavy armor 8x8, because these are the armoured men who will transport our soldiers - I hope they will transport them safely - and have the appropriate power. This is recorded in the long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, a document adopted by the National Assembly in 2004, in the medium-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces for the period 2005-2010, which is now being updated in accordance with the law for the period 2007-2012. Let me say that this is about the fact that both companies that have run are Slovenian companies and that the criterion was commercial - price. Here, let me say that Patria or Rotis, who is in charge, is 10 to 18% cheaper. Then about the technical capabilities that nobody has ever seen, say, a rag, because it's a prototype that's supposed to be in the Ravna, and we've tested a cop, an Austrian vehicle. Regarding the economic benefit, however, let me say that the rag, which otherwise bears the Slovenian name, will have only 20% of the Slovenian parts in the vehicle, while Patria has 30% of the Slovenian parts. Let me say that production will also start next year. Gorenje also participates in Rotis, which joins 50 Slovenian companies in this project. I hope we all agree that Gorenje Group is a Slovenian company. Let me say about the question of Koroška, here the representatives of Rotis and Gorenje have already offered Systemic techniques to participate in this project, but the management of System Technology does not want to be involved in this project. With regard to economic benefits - 320 jobs are offered by Rotis and Gorenje, which brings together the Slovenian industry in this project, while Systemic technique only 180 jobs, this group offers indirect jobs in 1920. Let me say that this is not a project of Koroška, but that this is a Slovenian project, this is one of the biggest contracts in the Slovenian army, this is a very important Slovenian project and this is not a narrow project that would only be connected to a certain circle. Let me say I'm disappointed in Systemic Technology because it has a tradition. We have concluded contracts with these companies from 1993 to today for 25 billion Slovenian tolars, and one would expect this company to be more involved in Slovenian space in order to make it easier to obtain Slovenian companies for this project, but unfortunately this has not happened. Allow me to reply to what is mentioned in the media today about Croatia's offer that it is 43% lower, let me say that it is not true. Patria offers the same price for these vehicles in this part of Europe, but it depends, of course, on the configuration of how individual vehicles are equipped and so these allegations are misleading, because these 200 million euros they spend on this project in Croatia are the funds they spend on buying, but it does not mean that they will buy as many vehicles as they will get for the money they get. Let me say that I will insist on concluding a three-party contract, that is to say Rotis, Patricia Finland and the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u171	Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u172	Thank you. I have an additional question. Is it true that this is a Slovenian project, or does this mean that they cannot carry out such a Slovenian project in Koroška? The other thing is. Dear Minister, for 136 armoured men you would have purchased, you need 1360 Slovenian soldiers who must carry out their service professionally, at least 10 soldiers per armoured guard. 63 billion for those armored men. This is only a purchase price, but what about annual maintenance and servicing, and how much is the price set here? Public procurement at such a large amount must be transparent, we must not be repeated, we must not do what is happening to us today at the operating tables. I think we could learn something from this. When I communicate with the Korosks, they are very disappointed both with the government and with the country and say that in the next week the black flag will have half the drugs hanged, and that is grief, respected minister. I am very concerned about the social and economic situation in this region, although I come from Styria. Since I know the situation, I can honestly tell you that it is a major crisis and if the Systemic Technology has so far been able to cooperate with the Ministry of Defence in this amount, then I do not see the problem why not continue negotiations with some quality, with some quality. Why aren't the tests public, why don't you put this in the public eye? And the final question. Is the resignation, the voluntary resignation under the terms, the former Chief of Staff, Mr Lipic, connected to these orders?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u173	Thanks for the extra questions. The withdrawal of the Chief of Staff was his personal decision and has nothing to do with this business. Let me say that the public procurement system is in place. While the invitation to tender is confidential, certain criteria apply here, namely the price, the economic benefit and technical capacity of the vehicle. Unfortunately, in this case, Rotis was more successful than Systemic Technology. And the Koreans could get this deal if they met all three of the criteria. With regard to the process, let me say that 50 people participated in it, not by a small narrow group, but by 50 people, at the same time participated in an independent engineering college and an expert in thermals. With regard to technical capabilities there is no secret, this data was presented at a press conference and journalists could see for themselves what the capabilities of one vehicle are, and what is not yet, because Austrian cop 3 was on the test, Krapana. Regarding the black flags in the Koro region, I don't know, the black flags could hang in Velenje if we start this discussion. As Minister, I am responsible for choosing the best vehicle at the minimum cost, and I am also responsible for the soldiers who will drive these vehicles. Five years from now, I wouldn't want anything to happen to anyone, because the vehicle wasn't safe enough to be my responsibility, because System Technology would certainly not have taken that responsibility. You remember the story with the Hammers, which was a similar discussion of why we're buying this, American vehicles, expensive vehicles, I don't know what. Last year, when they ran over the mine, there were four lives left. And this is about this, it's not about the Korean region, it's not about, I don't know what, but it's about getting us the best car for the taxpayer's money, the cheapest vehicle, but I've already told the union today, which was protesting against the Ministry of Defence, but there's no reason that there's no reason for certain work to be done in Koroška. Of course, this decision must be taken by the management of the System Technology, but I am afraid that it is not about jobs, as I said, in this project there would be more 100 additional jobs than System Technology offers, but it is clearly the interest of the management of the System Technology to "cassify" the profits from this business.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u174	Mr Mag will ask the question of the message. Borut Saiovic to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, who is duly absent. You want to ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Greetings to colleagues and to rare colleagues, including the absence of a minister, justified or unjustifiable, are, of course, symptomatic of the situation in Slovenian agriculture, where problems have recently been intensely swept under the carpet. Today, the minister was also expected to answer the question of how it will be with the Sugar Factory in Ormož and more. I myself will touch on a problem that also excites Slovenian farmers and the Slovenian public, which is clearly a dispute within the agricultural and agricultural chambers, where the government and the agricultural ministry, with some decisive move of this agony, could end already. Before the day, the Minister stated the following: that this financial failure of the agri-agricultural chambers is not based on the fact that there is no approved work programme, which is being blocked by the bovine business association, because it is obviously not in agreement with the management of the agri-agricultural chamber. In this regard, we ask the Minister what is the reason why the agri-agricultural chamber does not receive funds from the state budget, who is to blame, that, in the middle of the financial year, the agri-agri-agricultural chamber has still not received the funds already foreseen from the budget. Above all, we are interested in the impact of borrowing and paying dear interest on the financial situation of the Chamber. Do you know how much money has already been borrowed from the agri-land chamber and how much interest will be paid for these funds? What the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has done to obtain these funds within a reasonable period of time, when these funds will actually come and how you assess the role of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber within the agricultural sector and in the implementation of agricultural policy, and in particular how the performance of the current work of the Chamber is assessed. And perhaps, which is not irrelevant in this story, or as a minister you support or oppose the intentions of the Ministry of Public Administration, Mr Virant, that agri-consulting services or agri-consulting forestry establishments should be re-assigned to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food; or that you support the position of one of the government parties that compulsory membership in the Chamber is simply to be abolished, or that you could support the other position that must be maintained in the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, while, of course, increasing the amount of cadastral income, so that approximately half of the members in this Chamber would be less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Member, do you insist on an oral response? Then you'll get it at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Mr. Mag. Milan M. Zwickl will ask the Minister of Finance a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u177	Members and Members of Parliament, Mr President, Slovenia and Slovenia, wherever you are watching or not looking at what is supposed to be a direct transfer of the questions sent. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance how he intends to manage public debt and guarantees even more restrictively at the time ahead of us at a time when we will take over the euro. The EU has warned us a few days ago that the sustainability of Slovenian public finances is under threat, otherwise Mr Janša says otherwise that the system is sustainable and that it will not be necessary to radically change it, but you yourself, Mr Minister, have already spoken if we do not do anything about the pension system, we will know. And we'll know if you don't control the debt. Let me mention just two cases. A Slovenian compensation company whose assets are expected to amount to approximately on the last day of last year. 170 billion, I'm not supposed to have enough money to cover my obligations anymore. The SOD gap is estimated at 110 billion. Of course, the SOD, the Slovenian Compensation Society will not be able to cover this by itself, but will have to be covered by taxpayers. The capital company, which is also supposed to ensure long-term sustainability of pension funds, says it will issue 200 billion bonds because it has an obvious problem with the management of assets and the provision of additional funds to the pension fund. At Dars, you allowed almost 400 billion dollars at the time of your government, 1,640 million euros in debt to Dars. The consequences will be toll increases, but if the toll does not rise, the burden on taxpayers will fall. I therefore ask you, Mr Finance Minister, how you manage and what measures you take to reduce the indebtedness and issuance of guarantees to budgetary and non-budgetary users and state-owned enterprises. Please provide the Slovenian public with detailed information on changes in debt and guarantee at the time of your government's appearance by the end of May this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u178	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The debt of the state budget, as regards direct budgetary users, is the first part of the response, as follows. Every year, the Republic of Slovenia owed itself to the amount defined in the law on the implementation of the budget. The debt of the state budget continues to decline from the start of the new government. At the end of 2004 it was 25.8% of gross domestic product and at the end of 2005 it was 25.3% of gross domestic product. By the end of 2006, it is expected to be 25.2% of gross domestic product. The debt situation today is 721 413, 1721 413 million, that's billions. At the end of the year, we expect 1764,903 to be planned, and we also expect to achieve this because of the fact that, due to the dynamics of budget implementation, most of the debt realised in the first half of the year, while in 2006 debt repayments were higher in the second half of the year. The debt reduction trend is due to a low deficit in 2005, with a rebalancing lower than the approved budget and a projected reduction in the next set period. The consumption of NLB's early repayment of debt in 2005 also played an important role. However, as far as the public sector is concerned, this is what indirect budgetary users call an enterprise in which the country has a dominant influence. The public sector debt supervised by the Ministry of Finance consists of the debt of the so-called wider country, which includes agencies, funds and institutions or so-called indirect budgetary users, and the debt of public undertakings, public economic institutions and legal entities where the country has a dominant influence. The scope of the public sector's debt and the extent of the State's guarantees in each financial year are also determined by the annual quotas, which form part of the law on the implementation of the budget, which is adopted as part of the budgetary legislation by the National Assembly each year. Public sector debt increased by 13.7% from 2003 to 2004 and reached 12.7% of gross domestic product. In 2005, it was maintained at the same level, while in the present state, these days in mid-June 2006 it represents 12.5% of gross domestic product. Maintaining the 2004 GDP share is due to a lower debt growth, in 2005 - 6.9% and in 2006 - the first half - by 2.7%, compared to a much faster increase in this debt in 2004. The trend is also reflected in the implementation of the statutory debt quota. This was realized in 2004 at 95 billion tolars and in 2005 only 54 billion tolars. While in the first half of 2006, only 23.2. The public sector's debt increased by only 77.8 billion SIT in the 18 months, a poor fifth or exactly 18.4% less than in the last year, the 12 months of the previous government, which was 95.3 billion tolars. As regards state guarantees, 133.2 billion tolls were issued in 2004 and 90.7 billion guarantees were issued in 2005, 11.4% less than in 2004. To date, 84.1 billion guarantees have been issued, which is 2.8% below the level of guarantees issued in 2005. A total of 174.8 billion tolls were issued in the year and a half, which is relatively less than in 2004. It follows from all this that the introduction of the new government has reduced the debt of the state budget as a share of gross domestic product, while at the same time a more selective approach to consenting to debt has reduced the public sector debt trend, while at the same time reducing the issuing of State guarantees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u180	Here you go, please. Would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u181	I gave the Minister of Finance some other information that the Minister did not tell. We all agree that in the National Assembly we have issued a guarantee of EUR 1 billion for Dars, that is 240 billion. You have all heard that, of course, the SOD intends to cover the hole, probably only with a guarantee, and Mr Toplak speaks in the media to issue the KAD for 200 billion tolls of bonds. I hope you know that, too. Above all, Mr Minister, after hearing a whole bunch of data that you haven't told me, and I hear data that, in my opinion, require at least a methodological explanation as to whether it is a question of issuing guarantees on the basis of a paid realization or in terms of taking on commitments, we think it would be right to say this, two would be additional to clarify. The first explained that your debt was partly reduced because you managed to spend your purchases from the New Ljubljana Bank, but I am hearing today, of course, so I am also asking as a question, KBC intends to sell its final share. Then how will you be able to reduce your debt to the country? And secondly, because it is very topical, what we are doing or doing with these armoured personnel, Mr Minister, as a member of the opposition, you have been very critical of the basic development programmes. Now, as I hear it, you've just confirmed to the government that you're going to devote an additional 170 billion debt to defence investments. If I add all this up, Mr. Minister, then during your government's time you've allegedly issued or already indebted the Slovenians for more than 1150 billion. Summarize the numbers and I ask you how you plan to manage the borrowing and guarantees ahead?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u182	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u183	As far as basic development programmes are concerned, it is very well known to the Member that this is not a programme that the current government has invented. If what this government has done - and this will come now, if it is not already under consideration in the National Assembly - we will change this system, since 2008 it will be a finally transparent system where the minimum conditions required when such things are being bought will be respected. You know that this is done by different keys, but I am very pleased, exactly what we have been committed to even when we did not have the responsibility of the government to make this thing happen. So as far as basic development programmes are concerned, this will be much more transparent than in the previous decade when this programme came into being. As far as the SOD is concerned, I think that the entire Slovenian public is also aware that the SOD has assumed certain responsibilities and that sufficient resources have not been provided in time to carry out these responsibilities. In the coming weeks, I will very simply present everything that is known, as far as this is concerned, I have no problem with this issue, and I will do so in full. But I don't know what kind of connection this is supposed to be - we never denied it, not just that, we said it in public. If you have not followed this, then I regret it, but I think who follows the public statements by the Ministry of Finance knows well that we have yet to say and with the Bank of Slovenia have also defined a programme and a timeframe last year that we can use these funds, which were actually intended for this very purpose. However, we have never spoken differently than we have reduced our long-term debt because we were in time, so last year we used these funds that were available to us and were, from the very beginning, designed to settle the debt in accordance with the law. As far as that's concerned, I don't know why it's surprising. However, if there is to be a sale when you ask and link the possible exit of KBC, I do not see any connection to this particular case. That's their decision. The government will only act when the final parameters are also known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u184	Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u185	I would like to ask that, in accordance with the relevant Rule of the Rules of Procedure, Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly shall hold a debate on the incorrect reply of the Minister. For the Minister did not fully answer the questions raised, nor did he fully answer them. First of all, I would like to ask Mr Minister - and I want this to be a debate - Mr Minister says that we will have a transparent programme for TRPs only since 2008. Mr. Minister, you have been sitting in the government since 3 December 2004! [[Back-up advertising.]] I, Mr. Minister, haven't sat down for ten years. Other finance ministers sat down. And you say, Mr Minister - you don't need to get upset - that this will only happen in 2008. What does it mean to buy armor in an untransparent way? That's the first one. Secondly, as far as the SOD is concerned, Mr. Minister, you've been in the government for some time now. I explain procedurally why I believe that a debate is needed. The Court loses potentially only one business of up to 29 billion. Of course, the Minister did not respond adequately to the KAD question. When he didn't mention it. In my question about the wider sector, he did not mention the municipalities with a word. Minister, according to the law adopted in this National Assembly, municipalities may be additionally indebted at annual level to about 3% of [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u186	Mr Squeakl, once again I warn you, this is not a debate, this is your procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u187	It is not, but I am simply explaining, Mr President, why a broad debate is needed on the problem of indebtedness.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u188	I think we get it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u189	Can I complete the rules of procedure in three minutes? I'll be done. We need to have a debate because we have a situation in which some institutions, I mentioned the SOD and the CAD, are behind us, including railways belonging to them, the state guarantees them or guarantees them without knowing the comprehensive programme of borrowing and issuing guarantees. At the time of this government, we estimate that there were 1,150 billion issues, either guarantees or direct debt. Around some of the debts, Mr Minister, the debt was indeed reduced only because you managed to spend the purchase from the New Ljubljana Bank, if I recall, it was done in the mandate of the previous government. Therefore, I propose that tomorrow, at the time of the vote, you allow us to explain to Members and Members why it is necessary to support the urgent debate on the extent of indebtedness in Slovenia, because we are taking over the euro because it is necessary to be restrictive in public finances, and this government has so far committed each of us to 960,000 tolls or a bad billion, total 1150 billion, and that is, of course, to the Slovenian public. It would be right to ensure that such things, at least the Members' questions, are provided, if not elsewhere, on the third television programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be discussed by the National Assembly tomorrow during the vote without discussion. Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen will ask the Minister of Transport the question. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u191	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Member of Parliament and Members, Mr Minister. My parliamentary question concerns the use or validity of an enterprise contract for qualified retired drivers. We are aware that the Road Traffic Safety Act, which entered into force 1.1.2005, lays down, inter alia, the conditions for driving bus drivers, their psychophysical ability and other expertise. Regrettably, the provisions of Article 18 of the Act have been discriminated against in the implementation of that law. In the Republic of Slovenia, there are increasing numbers of pensioners who have all the documentation in place to drive and who are not allowed to drive buses. This raises the question of why people should not drive under a contract for a certain number of hours per year, since the record is recorded in all documents of both drivers and tachometers. In addition, other pensioners, such as doctors, professors or teachers, can still do occasional and occasional work as lecturers and the like after retirement, so I ask you, Mr. Minister, why not the same solution also apply to qualified retired drivers or, what are you going to do to make them equal to other pensioners who can perform occasional and casual work from their previous profession?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u192	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President, and of course also for the question of Mr Ivan Yelen. With regard to the application or validity of the undertaking contract for qualified retired drivers, the following explanation would be given. The currently in force road transport law, which entered into force in 2001, introduced in its 28th Article as one of the mandatory documents to be held by the driver of the domestic carrier during the journey in the vehicle, including a contract or a certificate of employment. In order for drivers to be employed by the carrier, Article 7 of the Act already provides for the conditions for obtaining a licence. The provisions of Article 7 state, inter alia, that employed drivers must fulfil the conditions of professional competence and that employed bus drivers and vehicle taxis must actively speak Slovenian language. Under the Employment Relations Act, an employee who is employed under an employment contract means an employee. Such arrangements dictated the situation in the labour market at the time for the driver's profession, as it was necessary to regulate their employment mainly from the point of view of prevention of work in black and in general due to the regulation of an area which had by then been rather unregulated. The carriers also agreed with this solution. In the meantime, it has been shown that the driver’s profession is deficient and that the term “employee” too restricts carriers in the employment of drivers and drivers themselves in the search for work. At this very moment, a new road transport law is being drafted to liberalise the employment of drivers, so that drivers can work with carriers also on the basis of other contractual relations, not only on the basis of a contract of employment. However, this liberalisation should apply only to the driver of the domestic carrier carrying out the transport of goods. In coordinating the text of the new law, the representatives of the Association of Bus Carriers at the Chambers expressed the wish that the existing regime would be maintained. Therefore, the driver of a domestic carrier who carries persons carrying a vehicle with more than 8 seats in addition to other documents in the vehicle will have to have a travel order and a contract of employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u194	Would you like another answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u195	Dear Minister, you have answered part of my question in an understandable and correct manner, but I would like to know even more precisely whether it is your opinion that there has been a case that is not common, that a bus driver - a pensioner in 2004 has helped a private or independent entrepreneur in emergency driving, and the inspector has found, in reviewing the documentation, that he also has an employment contract with him and has not punished him. In April 2005, the same driver, even at this moment an occasional retired bus driver, had a rental contract with him and was punished by an inspector with 100,000 fines if the contract was not in force. Thus, the driver paid 50,000 tolars and did not complain because it was not possible to get the right opinion of a higher or supreme court. I want to hear your point of view on this issue, because it is a socially beneficial work.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u196	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I think that's actually an additional question. I don't fully know this case. However, I would like to provide a written answer when we examine the matter. Certainly, if I comment in some way, it is a similar story that has a different approach to solving and punishing, and I do not think that this is right if I look at it quickly. However, we will send you an appropriate response from our ministry as soon as possible, without deliberation or blinding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr Pavel Gantar will put the question to the Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister or Minister, distinguished fellow Member and expert co-workers! That's actually what I've been saying to everyone. I would like to ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Mr Minister will recall that more than one year ago, a year and three months ago, I asked him an oral question about the further spatial development of the port of Cyprus. When you have also accepted various representatives of the initiative committee, including opponents of the construction of the third pier, the government has set up an interdepartmental working group and you have announced the initiation of a procedure for the preparation and adoption of the state site plan for the port of Cyprus. Dear Minister, I ask you: How far are the preparations or the process of drafting the site plan and when can we expect a final decision on the construction of the third pier, or when should the government adopt the location plan? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u200	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Dear Member Dr. Gantar, Mr. Vice President! Also this year, in the spring months, I re-adopted representatives of the initiative committee of the Ankaran local community. On your very specific question, however, I would like to say very concretely that on 25 April 2006 I received the official formal initiative of the Minister of Transport to draw up a state-level plan on the comprehensive spatial arrangements of the port for international transport in Cyprus. The entire area of the port of Cyprus is considered to be a spatial arrangement of State importance, this is a clear conclusion. That is why we have always been convinced in our ministry that the only possible and professional solution for the entire port area is a single national location plan. Once adopted, the provisions of all existing municipal spatial acts will cease to apply. Until then, after our assessment, the procedure will begin this month, at the end of this month, from then on we will consider it to be accepted by the government no later than 18 months on your specific issue. However, until then, with regard to the first and second prayer, I would like to make it particularly clear which is regulated by spatial regulatory conditions, which was adopted by the municipal council of the Municipality of Koper in 1998, and in this case, the investor, Luka Koper, may obtain a building permit for all buildings which are defined by type and activity in the existing PUP and which have not yet been built. It is also possible to extend both dams to the extent determined by the applicable PUP. This is said to be the case in all these cases, building permits shall be issued in the manner and procedure laid down in the Construction Act, so they may be granted relatively quickly a construction permit for piers 1 and 2. With regard to the national location plan and the procedure itself, a comprehensive environmental impact assessment will also be necessary during the study phase in accordance with the Environmental Protection and Conservation Act. The deadlines are relatively long on the basis of the legislation in force, just before we adopt a law on spatial planning in the government. However, this law proposes that procedures for the preparation of those national location plans that have not yet been made public continue and end under the provisions of this Act relating to the adoption of the State Spatial Plan. In this case, the deadline until the adoption of the regulation will be substantially reduced by the end of the adoption of the State Spatial Plan Regulation at the point where, in accordance with the applicable law on the regulation of the premises, the Government will adopt a decision on the variant. That's why our forecast is that this will be possible in 18 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Would you like another answer? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u203	Well, first of all, around the facts. It is a fact that you have only received this formal initiative from your fellow minister in April, and if we take into account the fact that this preparation will take time, it is necessary to know that from last year's date, as of 2005, three years will have passed if we reach the location plan in the form of the development plans for Luka Koper, which exist. Another interesting fact that you have mentioned is that at the Ministry of Environment and Space you are based on the fact that the entire area of Luka Koper is subject to the regulation of the State's site plan, while at the same time you say that you can otherwise work in a certain area of this port of Koper, while the first and second docks work on the basis of building permits issued on the basis of old PUPs - spatial regulatory conditions. So why not continue the process of constructing or sorting the third pier on the basis of a legal plan drawn up by the Kori municipality in recent years. This could avoid delays, but I must say that these plans also require an appropriate impact assessment and does not mean a derogation from the standards we have in the field of protecting this environmental impact assessment. And second. In this regard, I am particularly interested in the added question of what is the role of this Interdepartmental Commission, or is this informal body in some way already replacing formal procedures when adopting a local plan? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u204	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u205	Thank you very much. For the first time, it happened to me that I only answer to one Member of the National Assembly, but I am happy to do so. The Interdepartmental Working Group was meeting, I'd say, dynamic. It also had other tasks, not only the process of preparing the national site plan itself, but also the Interdepartmental Working Group will not be involved in this process, it will be a classic procedure as is the case, and this working group has dealt with some administrative, financial and other very complex issues related to the operation of the Koper. I would like to give you a very clear answer to your specific question, which is very important. Indeed, the Municipality of Koper adopted a decree amending and supplementing the spatial components of the long-term and social plan of the Municipality of Koper, which entered into force on 15.9.2004. The changes to the plan have also reached the area of the third pier, a width of 80 metres in the direction of Ankara to the area of the third pier where construction is envisaged according to the regulatory plan [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] rail track. [[...]] With regard to these amendments, the Municipality of Koper also adopted a decree establishing which components of the spatial implementation plans are contrary to the elements of the long-term and social plan of the Municipality of Koper, which provides that the decree on the regulatory plan of the Court of First Instance cannot be implemented in a work contrary to the decision amending and supplementing the spatial components of the long-term and social plan of the municipality of Koper. This compliance decree entered into force on 5 November 2004. With the adoption of this Decision, the regulatory plan became virtually impractical as it is not possible to implement the envisaged technological process on the third pier without the possibility of construction of the power rail track. And since the municipality adopted the decree in 2004 and thus repealed part of the regulatory plan, which has been considered a national location plan since 7.6.2003, the municipality was not, in our opinion, competent to adopt such a regulation. With these actions, we believe that the Municipality of Koper has intervened in the jurisdiction of the State in the area of spatial planning and therefore its conduct in terms of the legality of the decisions taken is legally and substantively controversial and, consequently, the formal validity and substantive relevance of the regulatory plan can also be disputed as a basis for the issue of building permits directly for the construction of the third pier and the spatial arrangements on that pier. In this explanation of all these actions, there is no argument that we are convinced and we believe that, on the basis of such a spatial act, the distribution plan of the pier three, it is not possible to issue permits for interventions in the area without the preparation of an appropriate new national location plan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u206	Thank you very much. I thank the Minister, the Prime Minister and the Ministers for the answers given. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear Member, I inform you that I am adjourning the 18th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much. Good night!
