ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! It is nine and a few minutes, we will begin with the 13th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting: Matjaž Han, Ferri Horvat, Victory Jelinčič Tribal, Anton Kokalj, Dr Mitja Slavinec and Milenko Ziherl. We're moving to 2. Period of the day - another defense proposal for a law on a personal name. I would like to inform you, however, that the debate will take 38 minutes. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Mr. Minister Dragutin Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! There are minor changes to the personal name law ahead of us. At the outset, I would like to point out that the law in force in 1974, that the last amendments to this Act were introduced in 1991, that there were some new legal solutions at the time, are both the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, the Law on Offences, and the Law on the Functioning of the State in 1994. That is why we have prepared a new law and introduced the following essential changes and solutions. We define more precisely the concept of a personal name, its composition and the conditions for use. Cases in which the right to choose a personal name may be restricted shall be established. The method of changing the personal name shall be defined in more detail. The decision-making authority is removed by local authority, so that now, with this change, the personal name of the law can be changed by the inhabitants of Slovenia in any administrative unit in the Republic of Slovenia. The law lays down a single reservation for a change of personal name. The amendment shall not be permitted for persons who have been convicted of offences which are prosecuted under an official obligation until the punishment has been carried out or the legal consequences of the conviction continue. At the same time, we reconcile the law, as I said, with the law on offences. This is why fines are imposed instead of fines. The amounts of fines defined in that Act shall also be changed and a new criminal authority shall be established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u3	Minister, thank you for the introductory explanation. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, to present the report. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u4	Nice greetings, presidents, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law at its regular session. In its supplementary explanation, the representative presented the reasons for the draft law, stressing in particular that the adoption of the new law on personal name was needed primarily because the applicable law on personal name had already been amended several times in 1974, most recently in 1991. The bill therefore eliminates the weaknesses found and shortcomings of the current law and constitutes compliance with the rest of the legislation adopted, which also concerns this law. The representative of the Legal Service pointed out that the applicant almost fully followed the comments made in their written opinion, which were mainly aimed at making the proposed provisions more clear and to simplify the use of the terms in the legislative text. Opinions and support for the bill were expressed in the debate. The Committee then adopted some of its amendments to certain articles of the law and voted on all articles of the law together and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you for the report. We, in good practice, are moving on to a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups. I give the floor to the representative of the DeSUS Group, Ambassador Willi Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your word and a very nice greeting to everyone. As we are now starting a marathon session, perhaps it is not too much if we first express the hope that the work will be as few and as effective as possible, which, of course, we can only contribute to by ourselves by means of our own way of discussion, by our own discussions and by our own proposals. It has a personal name law, a so-called Metosalamic age, which is why the proposaler did not decide to modify and supplement it, but prepared a new legal text. On this text, which is not too extensive, all of the articles are 28, so to speak, it has been suggested that any addition was made, what a minor change and much of that, 14 amendments, was also accepted. Such an updated and improved text is also supported by the DeSUS Group of Members. It is one of the fundamental rights, it is that a person has a right to a name, it is that we give that name to a child who cannot decide for himself and has the right to protection. And it is also, of course, that certain restrictions are imposed on the designation or that the possibility is given for the name to be changed as well. This name, a personal name consisting of a surname and a name, has the task of identifying people to give them individuality, to alert them to the difference, as well as to allow a person or that personal name to be monitored. Of course, restrictions on this are, in particular in the sense that those who receive a name against various discrimination must be protected from possible insults of feelings, either national, religious, political or any other emotion and those who receive a name in the prime of their youth, of course, in their childhood, this right, or the possibility of defending it at that time, must be protected. Therefore, it must be allowed that this can later be changed if that is the will of the individual. Yet, in empirical reality, we also face problems in this area, especially when it is a matter of overestimating differences, when someone specifically wants to give his child a name that he or she will point out when it comes to parents not being able to agree on their child’s name, and even when it comes to certain legal names being too long. Personal names, therefore, consisting of a name and surname. As we say, in the DeSUS Group, we support this law, but we point out the following. It has not been taken into account what the legislative and legal service has also pointed out, namely that in Article 2, where we are talking about restrictions, a great opportunity for arbitration has been given, especially because it is not defined how public rights, morals, freedoms of other people are protected. So here is the possibility of arbitration. We also feel that it would be better to define more precisely how a name can be challenged. Perhaps everyone is just not satisfied with what others have attributed to them. It is unclear who has active legitimacy in the challenge and what the procedure is. Perhaps we should also point out that we are still somewhat discriminatory towards youth, for for example, someone who is seventeen years old, who is still 18 years old, still has no right to make a proposal to change his name, even if it is difficult to identify with. However, because we doubtfully believe, in the DeSUS Group, that the marriage is better than what we have had so far, and because we are counting on the consequences of warnings to be monitored, on the basis of the warnings we have given, we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members. Madam Ambassador Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, chairman. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Given that the area of personal name is governed by a law that was passed in 1974 and has been amended several times, it is essential that this area be regulated in a completely new law that will be acceptable for the time in which we live. The proposal, which we are considering today, removes the weaknesses found and shortcomings of the law now in force and represents compliance with the legislation adopted later. The draft law defines the concept of personal name, composition and determination and the conditions for its use and amendment for nationals and nationals of the Republic of Slovenia. It is determined what a personal name serves, what must be provided to an individual and on which cases the right to choose a personal name may be restricted. This may be restricted only exceptionally if it is necessary to ensure public security, morals or the rights and freedoms of others. A change in the personal name of a person convicted of an offence until the offence has been committed shall be rejected on the basis of this provision. It is also possible to reject a chosen personal name that would be immoral or offensive, which prevents an individual from safeguarding his or her personality and dignity or from interfering with the rights of others. A change of personal name may occur due to family legal relations or on the basis of a request by a decision. The bill also removes the local competence of the administrative unit at the place of permanent residence of the applicant and provides that any administrative unit in the Republic of Slovenia may decide to change the personal name. It is important to stress, however, that, following a new proposal from the law, the applicant no longer needs to state the reasons for changing his personal name. When it comes to changing the personal name of a minor in the event of disagreement between the parents, the dispute shall be decided again by the court and not by the social work centre as laid down in the law currently in force. Members of the parent's working body expressed their support for the bill in the debate. A particularly positive change brought about by the new law is that the name of a foreign citizen, consisting of more than two words at the time of the conclusion of the marriage with ours, remains inseparable. The new law brings a lot of positive changes, and even in the opinion of our Group, it is right that the area, which is particularly sensitive from the individual's point of view, should be completely new. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposal for a law on personal name.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you. We are moving to the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members, Ambassador Mojca Kucler Dolinar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u10	In the New Slovenia Group, we welcome the new proposal for a law on personal name. A personal name for each person is the first identification mark and how sensitive we are when someone misuses our name, even if we cannot use the name we want. On the one hand, it is the obligation to use a personal name and, on the other hand, the right to choose. This individual's right may also come into conflict with public benefit and these cases also provide for a new law. Therefore, there are some restrictions in the proposed law. We believe that they are adequately foreseen, that this is when the choice of a specific name is not allowed to avoid insulting different feelings, but also morals and in cases where a person has been convicted of a criminal offence that is prosecuted under official responsibility until the punishment is carried out or the legal consequences of the conviction persist. Recently, we have also received initiatives from our parliamentary group to make the necessary changes in this area, particularly by persons whose name was composed of more than two words after the marriage. Thus, in practice, the new law will bring relief to all those who have more than two words of last name. So far, due to legal restrictions and as a consequence of technical obstacles, it has not been possible to use a surname with more than two words. In this case, problems arose mainly with regard to the issuance of documents and legal transactions. This, on the one hand, impeded the fundamental right to use the full personal name, which is in the future and which is properly regulated in the draft law. The proposal also provides for the protection of minors for whom age is being reduced, where they must give their consent to change their name and other developments that have a positive impact on this segment. This is how we support the proposal for a personal name law in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Ambassador Bostian Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. Fire, please. The Act on Personal Names was passed in 1974 and amended in 1991. This law does not contain the definition of a personal name. This is defined only as a personal right and a duty for each person to use his or her personal name. The restriction also contains a provision relating to the choice of surname after the conclusion of the marriage. If the chosen surname consists of more than two words, the spouses must make a declaration at the time of the marriage. This may consist of any two words, both of which they had prior to the marriage. The problem arises mainly in cases of the marriage of our citizens with foreign citizens, often made up of several words and meaning an inseparable whole. The draft law defines a personal name defined as a surname and a name, each of which consists of several words that form a whole. A personal name is an individual’s right and must be used. In addition, the draft law provides that the right to free choice of personal name may be restricted if this is necessary to ensure public security, morals or rights and freedoms of other, national, religious, public order and even before an individual is offended by the dignity of the individual. I like it so much that there may be no longer the desire of individuals in this country, including some parents who have given their children strange names such as Banka Slovenije or even Dog Fido. The amendment is also not authorised at a time when a person is convicted of a criminal offence and does not end the sentence of imprisonment. The Marriage and Family Relations Act will also need to be aligned with the provision relating to the change in the personal name of the minor child. In order to protect the benefit of the child, the proposed law introduces a specific form of control. These are all the reasons why we will support the proposal of the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law tomorrow, 1 February 2006, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Minister for his cooperation. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and insurance. I would like to inform you, however, that only 33 minutes are scheduled for discussion. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. The main purpose of the bill is to eliminate three constitutional non-compliances with the provisions of the law on enforcement and insurance. Thus, the proposed amendments specifically regulate the situation where a creditor or a related person purchases property for a price lower than its established value in the enforcement procedure. In this case, it is established that, irrespective of the actual amount of the purchases made, the remuneration of this creditor is deemed to have been as much as the value of the property found, which means that the creditor is considered to have been paid at the level of the property’s found value. Secondly, it provides that the court shall defer enforcement on a proposal from the third party, without prejudice to the eligibility of such postponement, on the basis of the criterion of the existence of damage which may arise to the third party if the third party proves its right on the proposed enforcement subject matter with high probability, such as a legal decision or other public instrument, by a private instrument having the nature of the public instrument, or if the existence of its right is based on facts which are generally known. If the third existence of a right cannot be demonstrated by a high probability, the court shall, on the basis of the criterion of likely injury, assess the third delay of enforcement as already done. Thirdly, it provides that the court will issue an enforcement decision to the new debtor, which constitutes an old debtor, in order to ensure that the new debtor is informed of the content of the enforcement decision and can effectively enforce the objection that the obligation has not passed on to it. At the same time, we have taken advantage of these amendments to several other amendments and additions which aim to harmonise the law with the provisions of the legal acts of the European Union and international treaties directly applicable in the Republic of Slovenia. This is an increase in the publicity of certain data relating to enforcement procedures, for example, the publication of data on public auctions of property and the operation of enforcement agents on the websites of the Court or the Ministry; then the alignment with later adopted laws, the alignment with the principle of European Community law on the prohibition of discrimination against residents of the Member States of the European Union; the elimination of certain obvious editorial and technical deficiencies of the law and the acceleration of enforcement procedures, for example, the provision of security at the expense of the court; the indication of the debtor's identification number on the application for enforcement; then, the courts themselves obtain information on employment and data on intangibleised securities; the reduction of the deadline for the re-offendure for three months; then that the court itself obtains a copy from the Land Book and some minor changes. It is also proposed that a comprehensive regulation and simplification should be made to demonstrate the maturity of the claim resulting from the notary record, by means of a creditor’s statement that the claim has fallen and not as now, when it is necessary to demonstrate the maturity of the claim, to lodge a finding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u16	Thank you very much, very nice greetings to representatives from the Ministry of Justice. At its 16th session, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and insurance. The representative of the proposal submitted an additional explanation to the bill. He said that the proposal for a law removes constitutional non-compliance with the provisions of the law on enforcement and insurance established by the Constitutional Court with three decisions and aligns the law in force with the provisions of the legal acts in the European Union, with the provisions of the international treaties, with the principle of European Community law prohibiting discrimination against the inhabitants of the Member States of the European Union and later adopted laws, in order to increase the publicity of certain data relating to enforcement procedures and to eliminate certain obvious technical shortcomings. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the Ministry of Justice, with proposals for amendments to the Committee, had taken due account of their written comments. Members and members of the committee supported the amendment of the law. In particular, the reason for the need to bring the law in force into line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court was highlighted, and the representative of the proposer stressed and said that a more comprehensive preparation of the amendments to the law on enforcement and insurance was under way, which was to be prepared by the end of this year. They shall prepare it in cooperation with experts in this field. Thus, the Committee adopted some of its amendments and all the articles of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you for the report. We are moving on to shifting the positions of the groups of Members. The first position will be given by the SDS Group of Members, Ambassador Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u18	Thank you for saying so, once again, hello to the representatives of the Ministry of Justice. The Enforcement Act provides for enforcement proceedings as a means to creditors to achieve the fulfilment of their claims. Effective and swift enforcement is extremely important in terms of legal protection and it is therefore important that creditors know all their legal options and resources. The appellant shall normally initiate the procedure by means of an enforcement proposal proposing an enforcement measure and the subject matter of enforcement. Debtors may object in the proceedings by a variety of objections to the different stages of the proceedings. We are therefore also interfering with this law on the property of individuals, so we must be particularly careful when adopting the provisions of this law, in order to avoid any unjustified interference with the debtor's sphere, particularly social existence. You have before you the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to amend and supplement the law on enforcement and insurance. The main reason for the proposed amendments is the three decisions of the Constitutional Court, by which the Constitutional Court found that certain provisions of the law were inconsistent with the Constitution, namely restrictions on enforcement of claims and compliance with amendments to the law on payment and real law. The proposed amendment also eliminates editorial and technical deficiencies in the law in force and in the terminology of non-compliance, with the later adopted Land Book Act and the Act on Offences. In view of the full membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union, the principle on the prohibition of discrimination against the inhabitants of EU Member States on proceedings before the national courts of the Member States of the European Union is also respected. Technical measures are also proposed to help increase the publicity of public property auctions and enforcement. Finally, the proposed changes will only increase the effectiveness of implementation. In the sent group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and insurance.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group. Mojca Kucler Dolinar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Also in the New Slovenia Group, we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and insurance. On the one hand, the law is amended in the light of the three decisions of the Constitutional Court. Thus, the first amendment to the proposed law provides that in cases where the property in the enforcement procedure for a price lower than the value found is purchased by the creditor and if the claim of that creditor from the amount obtained by the sale has not been paid in full, the creditor shall be deemed to have been paid up to the value of the property determined. The second amendment proposes that the court postpone enforcement on a proposal from the third party which has requested that enforcement be declared inadmissible on a particular subject matter without assessing the existence of any damage in the event that the third existence of its right on the proposed enforcement subject matter be demonstrated by a judicial decision or by any other public instrument. In this case, the third testifies to the existence of its right with a high probability that it already limits to certainty and therefore does not need to weigh the damage. The third amendment, however, improves the position of the new debtor entering enforcement. Following the proposed regulation, he will be able to object to the enforcement decision served by the court, together with the decision to proceed with the procedure. He didn't have that right before. The other amendments proposed are some of the consequences of compliance with the provisions of European Union legal acts, international treaties and certain editorial technical corrections. Within our Group of Members, we support and welcome these changes. It is therefore of particular importance to those institutions which have been introduced because of the speedy procedure. The fact is that, among the major problems of our financial market, payment non-discipline is due to a more efficient implementation process, a change that provides that, in the event of a failure of the rubble, the re-suspension can be proposed within a shorter period of three months is further simplified for the creditors, it is established that when the court proves itself from the land book. As it is regulated to demonstrate the maturity of the claim arising from the notary record in a more simplified manner, this will certainly help speed and will also highlight the function that the notary record as a public document must have and under which certain rights are derived and exercised. We will support the amendment of the law on enforcement and insurance, as well as any further efforts by the Ministry of Justice to make the implementation process even more efficient and faster and thus cheaper.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. You're giving up. The position will be given by the Slovenian National Party's Group, colleague Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the executive branch! Today we are talking about a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law resulting from the finding by the Constitutional Court that this law contained constitutional non-compliances, constitutional non-compliances were in the essential three elements. With the provision of the Constitutional Court, this law now aligns or takes into account the legal acts of the European Union, the provisions of international treaties and talks about the prohibition of discrimination against the inhabitants of the Member States of the European Union or, in any case, the second word of privilege, whatever anyone wishes to understand. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose this proposal, but we would like to stress in particular the importance of Article 4 of the proposal, which speaks of the original Article 20, and we hope that it will indeed be so that, with changes in the area of maturity, at least in time, a number of things will actually happen in favour of all debtors and creditors. However, another article of this law, which has not been mentioned today, is important for the Slovenian National Party, namely Article 8 which corrects Article 42a, b. and c. of the original law. All three articles, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, contain a smart protector because they speak of who issues a certificate of enforceability of decisions or public documents arising from a request from the European Union and who gives a certificate of authenticity of a foreign decision, in the first case the authority which decides on the claim and in the second case the Minister, which of course is good and in the Slovenian National Party we see in this Article and in this amendment the protector also in the national interest or in the national field. As has already been said, in the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose the proposed law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and insurance.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you, Comrade Barovich. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the DeSUS Group. Ambassador Willy Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thank you very much. In the modern business world, and even in our everyday life, the situation is such that, as key determinants, we can label, say, non-compliance with the rules so that at every step we can find avoiding different obligations, including the playing of laws or the inability to pay. This is no more recent finding, so we were united before the signing of the Coalition Treaty, that payment non-discipline must be changed, that those who are creditors must be protected, and that those who are in debt and are in unpleasant situations must also be protected because of a web of circumstances. The proposal, which we now have under consideration, follows primarily, as has been said, the decisions of the Constitutional Court and aims, for the first time, to prevent encroachment on behalf of those who have become debtors, is intended to postpone enforcement in favour of the protection of the third party and is also intended to protect the new debtor who has emerged in legal traffic. We are looking forward to more effective and faster protection, as well as debt recovery, at least by the proposer. However, some technical improvements are foreseen and we believe that these improvements will also have a positive effect, including the feasibility of notary records. As the Secretary of State mentioned in the introduction, it is also a matter of compliance with European Union regulation and certain editorial corrections. In the DeSUS Group, we support this bill for the following reasons. For the first time, because in reality the situation is calling for such arrangements that this payment discipline is reduced, however, by the time it cannot be completely prevented. The second is that we will fulfil one of the coalition obligations, not in its entirety, but a partial contribution to improving payment discipline. It is also a matter of more effective protection and greater enforceability and harmonisation of regulations. We are particularly pleased that the proposaler himself has found that this is not a comprehensive regulation in this area, even because we do not yet have adequate experience because the law is not so old after all. However, it foresees a more comprehensive regime, based on empirical analyses, based on an analysis already carried out in 2004 and based on the results to be obtained by a group that has to present its results to us already this year, and also on those warnings we have from the courts. Let me mention this past the beam, in the evening before a late day or two, it was said that only in the Ljubljana court have monthly executions of between 150 and 200, and this trend is still on the rise. Since all these measures are going in the direction of improvements in this sensitive area of insurance and enforcement, because this is a first step towards comprehensive solutions, the DeSUS Group will also support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u25	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to this amended bill, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law tomorrow, 1 February in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the other hand, the proposal for a law on the growth of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the University of Primorsk for the purposes of the loans leased for co-financing, enlargement and the modernisation of spatial conditions. In doing so, I would like to inform you that two hours and 18 minutes are foreseen or foreseen for the discussion. The draft law was submitted for consideration by a group of Members with the first-signed Zvonko Černač. I give the floor to the representative of the applicants for further explanation. Please, Mr. Blackach, please. No, no, it's my first-signed colleague, Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u26	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, the rest are present. In assessing the conditions of higher education, it is certainly not possible to go beyond the fact that the development area is lagging behind some other areas of increasing human capacity and the wealth of human resources. In general, reasons can be sought both by the organisation of public service, higher education under existing conditions, under-competitiveness and resulting in a modest choice. In order to ensure greater emphasis on higher education and its transformation into a national priority, and to ensure better conditions for its implementation, it is necessary to promote the development of higher education through appropriate mechanisms. New forms should be established and new mechanisms should be cited, while at the same time providing opportunities for the effective functioning of existing universities while respecting their autonomy. In 2002, a law on basic development programmes in the field of education and education was adopted which, inter alia, defined the basic investment objectives in the planned time periods for their implementation. The establishment of these investment programmes was based on years of experience in the field of investment in school space. The Ministry of Education and Sport and the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology have been making investments all the time under the framework of basic development programmes and under the conditions and frameworks of budgetary planning and budgeting, and it is clear that only budget resources will not be able to realise all the investments planned in these development programmes. In the most critical areas, the negative impact of spatial constraints and technological obsolescence on the quality of college equipment is reflected in the quality of study programmes, and this also results in the risk of falling behind in the development and use of higher education skills compared to similar European institutions. The clear circumstances and more detailed analyses show that it is in a financially invisible situation, at least as far as technological and functional equipment is concerned, as few members of the youngest university are concerned, namely the University of Primorska. The main purpose of this law is therefore to encourage and enable, to the extent possible, the autonomous technological development of individual university members with appropriate support from the State and, in particular, the development issues at least at this level, to be separated from the difficulties in providing public funds. The Law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor and the Student Organisation of Slovenia on loans for the co-financing of the extension and modernisation of the spatial conditions and technological equipment of these universities and the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which was adopted in August 2003, did not regulate this area for the University of Primorsk. Thus, by the law, he set a guarantee for the University of Ljubljana up to EUR 5 billion 250 million, for the Student Organization of Slovenia up to three billion, the University of Maribor up to EUR 750 million. For this reason, the proposers proposed a guarantee for the University of Primorsk, taking into account its development priorities up to a billion 500 million tolars. Following the introduction of the law last November, the university's representative presented the latest data on the parent board resulting from the University's new investment programmes, which, taking into account the estimated budget for 2006-2009 of a billion 909 million sitts, assume funding from loans of a billion 932 million tolar. For this reason, an amendment has also been tabled by the motioners, who are correcting the amendment tabled wrongly by the Social Democrats Group at this level. The general objective of the proposed law is to provide an additional financial source as quickly as possible by implementing the planned investments of the University of Primorsk, which does not burden the budget in the short term. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have listened to the needs of the University of Primorska through the law, and we have also followed the support adopted by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology at the meeting held in Koper last May. For this reason, the applicants expect that, valued colleagues and colleagues, our efforts and the law itself will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you. In the framework of the legislative procedure, the draft law treated the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr. Bojan Starman, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. At its 12th meeting, on 12.1.2006, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the University of Primorska on loans hired to co-finance the extension and modernisation of the spatial conditions submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and acceptance by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Tinker Bell. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which made specific comments on the provisions of Articles 1, 3, 5, 6 and 7. The main part of these comments was taken into account by the Committee in the drafting and adoption of its amendments, which are set out below. The applicant refers to the Law on Fundamental Development Programmes in Education and Science between 2003 and 2008, which notes that the planned development programmes will not be implemented only through budgetary means. Representatives of the government, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Science and Technology and the representative of the University of Primorska were also present. In the introduction to the explanatory memorandum, the representative of the applicant pointed out that it was necessary to adopt the proposed law in order to ensure working conditions for the University of Primorska. The representative of the Ministry of Higher Education also supported this proposal that the need to adopt legislation is necessary. However, the representative of the Ministry of Finance did not object and said that these funds were within our budget and budget memorandum and could be approved. The representative of the University of Primorsk was pleased with the initiative and with the willingness of all to help and accelerate the development of the University of Primorsk. Nevertheless, he pointed out that the latest calculations showed that all 432 million tolar loans would be insufficient. He suggested that this figure, a billion 500, as envisaged for the guarantee, be increased to a billion 932 thousand dollars. Various views were expressed in the debate. As this calculation was somewhat too late, given that if the amount was so high, it would somehow deviate from the average that we knew before, from the guarantee at the University of Maribor and the University of Ljubljana, and finally this proposal was not accepted. The Committee has adopted amendments, as I have already said, to those articles, where the comments were made, to Articles 1, 2, 3, 5 and 7 and, in view of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended proposal has been prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which we propose to be adopted by the National Assembly and thus to enable the work of the new Maritime University to be carried out in a normal manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you, Comrade Starman, for presenting the report. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory opinion. Minister Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u30	Mr Vice-President, honourable members and distinguished members of the National Assembly! The Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology took the initiative immediately at the beginning of the mandate and then after talks with the Rector of the University of Primorsk, Ms Lucija Čok, and after the meeting we had in Primorsk, it also agreed to solve the issue of guarantee for credits from the University of Primorsk. As we know, at the time of the basic marriage, it also gave loans to both the University of Ljubljana and the University of Maribor. At that time, the University of Primorsk had not yet been established and, of course, it was in an unequal or unprivileged position. The Ministry of Finance then, at the initiative of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, began to study various solutions, mainly from the perspective of increased public sector debt control, mainly due to the admission to ERM2 as you know, and sought different solutions to minimise this problem. And when the government received the coalition's proposal for this solution in October 2005, the proposal was supported. The law was submitted by a group of Members with the first signed Mr Zvonet Černač and other signatories. The fact is that the University of Primorsk, as a new institution, needs, in a somewhat higher sense, investment assets than other universities and, therefore, there are also certain differences in the amount to be granted. The fact is, initially, it was granted in some respects a proportional amount, a billion and a half, which was in line with previously approved loans. The fact is, however, that the University of Primorsk, as I have already said, needs slightly more resources in its initial expansion, and the difficulties are also in debt guarantees. Nevertheless, after a re-examination and a revised investment plan, when it was found that more than 432 million tolars were needed, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology agreed that the university needed this or would make an important contribution to its further development and stand by and that it supported the amendments given in that direction, namely that this law was adopted at the level of 1 billion 932 million tolars. The fact is, if I just say that the University of Ljubljana has already used 2 billion 164 million out of total 525 billion and is now acting more rapidly on investment ahead. The University of Maribor has already used a total loan of 1 billion 750 million. For this reason, we believe that these funds are very well loaded. These are resources for a modern knowledge-based society, and I therefore thank all Members and Members, for the first time those who have supported this initiative and the law, and for the second time to all Members who have supported this law on the Committee, and I ask them for further support. So much for that, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u31	Thank you, Minister. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups. The first position will be presented by the Liberal Democracy Club, Vice-President Marko Pavliha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues! It seems that Mr Janša's government and much of the coalition are not in favour of Primorski, as he has been hitting her all the time in the last year. Let me mention only two regions instead of three, political personnel clearings at Koper port in Intereuropa, stalling with a second track, blocking some tourist projects and could also be listed. Therefore, the present bill is refreshing and optimistic, as it is a matter of assistance to the University of the Sea, the University, the institution, which our Club of Members or the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia has supported and, last but not least, I am also supporting it, and I have been working for some time now also for the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport, which has passed from the University of Ljubljana to the University of Primorska. The Republic of Slovenia shall provide a guarantee for the credit obligation to be paid by the University of Primorska for the co-financing, extension and modernisation of spatial conditions and technological equipment, up to a total amount of principals of one billion and a half with the corresponding interest and credit costs. These funds are hired by the university to co-finance projects provided for by the Basic Development Programmes Act in the field of education and science between 2003 and 2008, following the prior agreement of the Ministry responsible for higher education. In our parliamentary group, we support this law, but with the remark that the government should provide these funds in a budget that is undoubtedly a cheaper source of funding. However, since the budget has priorities such as the police or the military, these resources are not found in the budget. And it is interesting that a similar concept of such financing is reflected in other areas, just before we finished with the Transport Committee, where we decided on the guarantee for the construction of motorways amounting to EUR 1 billion. And if this information doesn't tell you much, let me put it this way, it's 679.6% more credit, instead of budget and calculation, and according to the Institute of Economic Sciences of the Faculty of Law, it's supposed to be paying off all this debt somewhere until 2070, so on one side of the highway, on the other hand, higher education, I don't know what's going to happen next. Let us really consider whether we have the right to be indebted to our grandchildren and even to our grandchildren. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we have proposed in the draft budgets for 2006 and 2007 to increase funding for education, especially for higher education, but, as we know, our amendments were not adopted or rejected for no reason. We believe that such a policy of funding for higher education and other areas is flawed because, clearly, the victims, as we say, will be our children and, of course, their children and their children. However, we have decided to support this law and, of course, we will continue to support projects that will benefit higher education and, in particular, the University of Primorska, which needs all the help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you for your position. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Member's Social Democrats Club. Comrade Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr Vice President, the House of Respect. The Third Slovenian University, the University of the Sea, was established by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 29 January 2003. So the university celebrates its third birthday in these days. The Group of Social Democrats has always supported the establishment of the University of the Sea, and in its previous mandate, it has also made an extraordinary effort to establish a Club of Coastal Members, regardless of whether Members and Members came from coalition or opposition types. This was our joint project, which was very successful. The establishment of the University of Primorsko for the comprehensive development of this part of Slovenia is one of the most important projects since independence. In the Social Democrats Group, of course, we support the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the University of Primorska on loans hired to co-finance the extension and modernisation of spatial conditions. However, we listened to the main secretary of the university's parent committee's discussion that the funds provided for in the draft law, or the level of the guarantee of billions and 500 million tolars, were too small, so we decided to make an amendment of billions of 932 million tolars in the Social Democrats Group. In order to complete the ongoing investments supported by the Administrative Committee of the University of Primorska and by the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, the funds from a billion and a half should increase to, as said, slightly less than two billion. With this means we could complete a university for humanities studies, rectorate, tourism, language centre and intercultural communication, faculty of education and university of management. Detailed calculations were also presented by the representative of the University of Primorska at the meeting of the parent committee, which we then summarized in this amendment. It is true, however, that we had a minor error lurking here, but it is clear from the explanation of the amendment that this was a typographical error, so yesterday we tabled an amendment to the amendment and therefore I believe that the amendment tabled by the coalition MPs is irrelevant. In general, in the Social Democrats Group, we support the draft law and we will also vote in favour of the amendments and the increase in resources to complete the projects mentioned above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you, colleague Bevk. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Ambassador Cyril Testen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The New Slovenia-Christian People's Party Group will support the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the University of Primorska on loans hired to co-finance the extension and modernisation of spatial conditions. We base our support on the following facts. The University of Primorska fell out of the guarantee accepted by the State of Slovenia as Slovenian universities for the period 2003 to 2008. The then accepted guarantee of 7 billion tolars was only applicable at the University of Ljubljana and Maribor. We believe that the level of guarantee for the University of Primorska at the level of a billion 932 million - here I am also referring to the amendment tabled, which we will also support in our Group - in view of the investment needs, is appropriate and consistent with the extent of the guarantee issued for the universities mentioned above. However, if we compare the scope of the guarantee with the number of students enrolled, this is significantly greater than the University of Ljubljana and Maribor. This is also understandable to some extent, as the coastal university is the youngest and has a lot of unresolved spatial problems. The University of the Sea is also in a position to limit entries due to unresolved spatial problems and their growth is also conditioned by the acquisition of new premises. As far as the terms of the lease and the drawing of credits are concerned, the conditions are normal or similar to those of the other two universities. In Novi Slovenija we are confident that the university will meet its credit obligations from its regular income without any particular difficulties and that the country is only a guarantor of a faster solution to spatial and working conditions. Often, there is a dilemma in the professional circles, or we need a greater number of higher education centres in terms of staffing and spatial conditions. In our parliamentary group we attach to the reform of the Higher Education Programme, which provides for Slovenia between 4 and 7 university centres. Our view is that with a larger number of higher education centres we will make a significant contribution to the more balanced development of Slovenia and to a more even distribution of the student population across Slovenia. At the same time, the problem of student beds will be reduced, as a substantial number of students will be staying at home. In addition, this will help future graduates to look for their existing solutions in environments where they will study and stay, which is certainly positive for more coherent regional development. The New Slovenia Group, together with the proposed amendments, will support the loan guarantee law. In the future, we will also be in favour of other environments that will similarly address spatial and working conditions for the opening of universities under the reform programme. Here I think very specifically first of all to the University of Novi Gorica, which is very successful growing from polytechnics to the fourth university centre. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, Jakob Presečnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance, Your Honor. The Slovenian People's Party has always supported and advocated the establishment of a coastal university, as its establishment was undoubtedly in the national interest and for the great benefit of this part of Slovenia and the balanced development of Slovenia. The establishment of the University of the Sea complemented the network of university and higher education institutions and laid the groundwork for more equal access to higher education in Slovenia and thus provided opportunities for more equitable regional development. At the time of the establishment of the coastal university, we stressed in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that it is also necessary to provide fresh budgets for the establishment of the coastal university. Today, we will decide on a proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the University of Primorska on loans hired to co-finance the extension and modernisation of spatial conditions. In doing so, it should be stressed that it is only a guarantee and not a financing of the modernisation of the spatial conditions of the University of the Sea. We believe that the State guarantee is minimal, which we can do to enable the University of Primorska to develop successfully and enable a bright future. The means for which the law provides for the guarantee are intended to extend spatial capacity and the spatial possibilities are a fundamental condition for any educational activity of a particular educational institution. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy at which this law was dealt with, the representative of the University of the Sea proposed that the scope of the loans for which the State would grant the guarantee should be increased. Various opinions were given on this issue and the Committee did not adopt a proposal to increase the amount of guarantees from 1.5 to approximately 1.9 billion. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we agree that such an increase in funds means a derogation from the relationship we know about investments and guarantees in the case of the University of Ljubljana or Maribor. At the same time, we must make it clear that in the case of the University for Youth, a new university with relatively few resources and additional assistance is essential for its development. The aid in the form of a guarantee is the least we can do, so we have also signed an amendment that helps to raise funds to the already mentioned good 1.9 billion Slovenian tolars. We are confident that this will contribute to the successful development of the third Slovenian university centre. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposed law, together with the amendment. We hope that this will also help to increase the competitiveness of the University of the Sea and its successful further development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you for the position expressed by the Slovenian People's Party Group. We are moving to the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, MEP Srečko Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues, colleagues, a nice greeting to the visitors in the Chamber. So in the strategically important area of South-West Slovenia, a coastal university was included at the intersection of national and international, cultural and political interests and economic interests, as has already been said on 29 January 2003. However, this coastal university is in fact faced with administrative and technical problems, as it is essentially not in the same position as the other two universities, and therefore we have already addressed a request to the Minister on 26 May 2005 to ensure equal opportunities for financial, material, technical and administrative, including for this university in Primorska. As a signatory to this initiative, I have received an answer which speaks of the fact that, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of 31.5., the Committee has in fact been informed of my initiative to grant a guarantee to the University of Primorska for the rental of credits. On the initiative, they wrote: "... Happy Friends, Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education, Science and Technology Development - at its second emergency meeting on 25 May, adopted an opinion on the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of Slovenia for 2005, in which he agreed that the University of Primorska must receive State guarantees for credits as soon as possible, as it is currently in a discriminatory position." Nothing's happened since then. We expected, of course, that the government would write this law itself because it fully agreed with all the open debate that had been mentioned since the very beginning. I am pleased to find out in essence and support the proposal made by my colleague, Černač, who has passed this law as a proposal, but I think this should happen much earlier, because we have a good three years and in fact it is in a very, very discriminatory position up to the other two. So, in the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the necessity of the legal matter to be adopted is, of course, also with all the amendments attached, because it would be pointless to adopt some law with limited financial resources, and one year later to find that these funds are significantly too small, and to re-submit some other proposals that would take another three years. Well, we'll be happy to support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the DeSUS Group. Vice President Mag. Your Clavor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u42	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! I have listened with sympathy to the debate held so far, both by representatives of the Committee, government representatives and representatives of individual parliamentary groups. I am sympathetic because I am one of the six signatories to this bill. At the same time, I can say that all six signatories are also Primors, which we are particularly proud of, because this is our university, this is a coastal university, which we want to develop in the same way as the other two universities, in Ljubljana and Maribor. With everything you said in the previous debate, there is really nothing more to add. And I agree with everything, perhaps with the littleness of some statements not, but I agree with everything and I am very glad that the Maritime University is treated as such a unified opinion. I am particularly pleased with the encouraging words of the Minister and the encouraging words also to increase this figure by 432 million Slovenian tolars. I will therefore, as a signatory myself, and at the same time our Group of Members, support this proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you. A presentation of the SDS Group's position is yet to be made. Member Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and others present! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are pleased to have such a unified support for this law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the University of Primorska on loans hired to co-finance the extension and modernisation of spatial conditions. It is also possible to agree with those debates, which, I must say, I do not personally understand them because they come from LDS species that talk about the need for this matter to be fully regulated by state resources. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we do not know why the University of Maribor and Ljubljana were not included in this law when the guarantee law was passed in 2003. For the decree adopted by the Government concerning the establishment of this university came into force six months before the adoption of this law. But anyway, it's better late than never. From this point of view, we support the proposal tabled by individual applicants because we believe that this law is necessary in order to ensure further appropriate conditions for the youngest university. We will also support the amendments tabled in the parliamentary group. We will vote in favour of the amendment of colleagues from Social Democracy, with little surprise for us, given that the amendment was tabled after we tabled an amended amendment, as it should be tabled. This move shows us that it is unnecessary on the one hand, and shows the way of thinking that part of the opposition is so readily evident to Slovenian Democrats and other coalition parties. The University of Primorsk is not only important because of its borderline position and the development of programmes in this sensitive area. It is also important because it introduces important competition in the field of education programmes, not only in the area of the wider Primorska, but also in the whole of Slovenia, through its activities, new programmes and links with the local environment, especially those most in need. You probably know that individual members of the university carry out activities or education except in Koper, Isola, Portorož, also in Celje, Novi Gorica, Škofja Loki and Radenci. Support for this guarantee is therefore important in order to allow for normal spatial development for the implementation of all these programmes, which have been implemented by these members for many years. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we also hope that similar support will be given to efforts to develop other higher education programmes. We believe that the government's direction in this area, which supports all three state universities, on the other hand by extending the implementation of programmes through so-called private universities, is expanding this area and competition in it, that this direction is appropriate and that it makes an important contribution to the development of higher education in the Republic of Slovenia. We also believe that this competition does not limit the development or activities of individual state universities. On the contrary, we believe that, with the richness of the programme that we will witness in the coming years, as long as the relevant conclusions are adopted by this national assembly, we are introducing an important novelty and expanding the educational field in our country. Although the University of Primorska is the youngest among universities and is far behind in the number of places of entry for Maribor and Ljubljana, let's say for 2006/2007 - 1540, for example, Maribor 8000, Ljubljana 14.500, the programmes it implements are an important contribution to the development of higher education, so we believe that this law needs to be supported and made possible by investments that have already begun, especially with the support of the local environment, municipalities in the area, this is the restoration of Armeria and Foresteria and the tourism facility in Portorož. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled. In Article 1, we have the amendment tabled by the amendment tabled by the Group of Members with the first-signed Tinker Bell. The amendment to the amendment became irrelevant with the amendment of Ambassador Sam Bevko's amendment, following the same objective as the amended amendment by Mr Bevek. In the debate, I am putting forward Article 1, the amended amendment of Ambassador Sam Bevk, which reads: "In the second paragraph, the number is replaced by a number of billions of 932 million." Who wants a word? Comrade Bevk, I will read the Members and Members who have applied for the word: Bevk, Černač, Može, Potrata, Juri, Friend, Irgle. Then we can continue the debate. I give my word to Ambassador Sam Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I don't care what amendment we're going to vote on today first, because it's the same content and that's the most important thing. When we decided to table these amendments in the Social Democrats' Group, we had, above all, a discussion before us of the Secretary-General of the University of Primorska on the Home Finance Committee, which said that only with a guarantee of about 2 billion tolars will they be able to complete these investments, which I had previously discussed and which Mr Baloh, the representative of the University of Primorska on this Committee, also called them: the Faculty of Humanities Studies, Rectorts, Tourism, the Centre for Languages and Intercultural Communication, the Faculty of Education and the Faculty of Management. This is about content and the fact that the Maritime University will receive a guarantee that will be greater than 432 million, and if this is our case, then we could have listened to the Prime Minister yesterday, who said it was important, not who suggested something. So I suggest you support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you, colleague Bevk. I give my word to Member Belly Black. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The content is important to me, too, and if those words were true, which had been said earlier, then it would not be necessary to exercise with this additional amendment, but I mentioned it by the way. I'd say that's a billion 930 million tolar. If it were done by someone who had a small kilometer in this national convention, I would still believe it. Someone who, like you, has a respected colleague Bevk, has a very long mile, but I don't think he can be like that in such an important matter. But no matter what, I think this matter needs to be left alone because it's unnecessary and irrelevant. I mentioned it only because we are in the ruling coalition so often the target of criticism that we reject all the proposals coming from the opposition species, which, of course, is not true and what we can prove by looking at just a few magnetograms of these meetings. We have, of course, checked the reality of this number in terms of budget implementation, the ZIPRO provides guarantees at this level. If that were not the case, it would be totally irrelevant who would have tabled the amendment, even if we had tabled it as a proposal, to reject it. These are facts that need to be talked about. Personally, I also believe that this method is the right combination of different sources of funding in allowing for the expansion of spatial possibilities, appropriate and nothing wrong with one part of such investment being financed through credits, and there is nothing wrong with such cases where there is a clear source of return and where there is no dispute that these funds will be returned, the State will provide the guarantee. Those cases that we have followed in the past 12 years, where there have been a lot of guarantees that have never been realized, are another story. But that's not what this is about. In this case, it is a very clear figure and a very clear picture. Currently, the University of Primorsk pays over 80 million rents per year for the premises it uses. The University will be able to provide services for the reimbursement of these funds and, at the time of adoption, it will receive more favourable loans from the arrangements than it would otherwise have received. For this reason, of course, this solution, this increase is also appropriate and in the sense of the opportunities offered by ZIPRO, I also support and do not oppose it. However, the law or amendment we have before us and the conditions resulting from it are more favourable than in the applicable law, which provides for the guarantee of the University of Maribor and Ljubljana. I therefore think that the situation in this picture is significantly better, and it is unrealistic to expect that all development needs can be financed only through budgetary resources. Even two years ago, three years ago, when the University of Maribor and Ljubljana decided to do so, it was not possible to provide all the funds with a budget. And nothing else brings this amended law. For this reason, I will also support this amendment, because I myself believe that, within the budgetary options given, such a solution is optimal, most favourable and ensures a smooth continuation of the investments initiated in the University of Primorska, and it is particularly important that these efforts are supported in these local communities where the university operates, when individual municipalities have transferred the facilities or land free of charge to them where these activities will be carried out in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Comrade Blacky. My colleague Bevk signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If my colleague Chernač had a little longer mile in this national council, and perhaps even an opposition experience, then he would probably be a little nicer. Thus, with the unanimous support expressed by all the parliamentary groups in the national assembly at the time of his proposal, he first went to the LDS and now to the Social Democrats' Group, which we have just proposed an amendment that improves its basic law. So I don't think it would hurt him a little longer in this congregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you. The National Assembly shall continue its debate. I give my word to Ambassador Rudi Mohet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u52	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we adopted the birth certificate of the University of Primorsk, this is the decision to set up, this state assembly without interparty disputes, with consensus, confirmed this. And when he confirmed it, he also realized that there would be some additional funding needed for this university to be able to walk or at least have a similar standard to that of both sister universities. For this reason, Parliament's concern was also that of this misery, and the Higher Education, Science and Technology Committee has dedicated one of its meetings to the University of Primorska, where, among other things, we have written down, among other things, that it should be equivalent - because we have seen under what difficult conditions they are operating - to provide, as the other two universities, certain credits so that they can somehow overcome the worst problems they are suffering. The second thing, including at the meeting of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology, when we discussed the budget and, especially, which is very important for Members, we have saved investments, we have come to some knowledge and we have also commissioned the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Committee on Finance, which today supports this law to provide additional resources in the budget for the First Force so that those most urgent investments can start and have a basis. But we weren't successful there. But I think we will be successful today, and we will accept this law, as we have adopted it, by consensus. However, I would like to draw your attention to some of the things we need to have in this regard, ladies and gentlemen. The old Latins said "Quidquid agis, preter ages, et respice fine," whatever you do, do smart and think about the end. I don't think this policy that we're witnessing to today is good. I regret that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not passed this law or a broader law, because when considering the funds that are necessary and which are in this amendment, it was stated that these funds could be obtained by redefining the third school toll. At that time, we said that not only because of the University of Primorsk, but also for the needs of the Gorenjeks, for the needs of the Dolenjs, for the needs of the Celjans, for the needs of the Murska Sobota, it would be necessary to redefine this tolar, because with the success that the number of students has increased from 30,000 to 80,000 and it will probably be the goal when we all, who are sitting here now, reach a pension, probably 40% of the people with high education, that we will have to invest in it and invest in it in a way that it will not be as centralistic as it is now regulated. In Prekmurje, I have been stopped many times and asked what you are doing in the National Assembly, that you will establish two universities in Primorska - we know one Primorsko - while one is the University of Primorska with its head office in Koper, and the other will be a coastal university with its seat in Nova Gorica or something like that, while those areas of Slovenia, which are most neglected, are left without the proper care of the government for this area to move anything. And one of the discussers of New Slovenia, in his opening remarks, described these things well when he said that the adoption of this law was just a drop in the sea of what should be done. In my humble knowledge of this area, it would be more than necessary now that almost half of the mandate has a newly elected position to go to redefinition or set up a new national higher education programme, to see where the government thinks, if it intends to set up new universities, how it will be financed, who will be among the founders and how this network will look. You know, putting up a network of higher education and one cohort, and I say goodbye to the expression, ministers to one place, and they talk there, and they say, "You're going to get your university." Then he goes to another place, and he says, "You'll get your university." And third place, "You'll get your own university." Dear colleagues, this is an action that the politicians like, but it is spreading the higher education space that they should keep in this room as the little girl of their eyes. Because of this - I forgive Mr. Minister, because you are sitting here, finance minister, you should be sitting here right now, you are listening to this - this is the thing: we should redefine or re-establish a national higher education programme and when we get a consensus, respected colleagues, colleagues, where new higher education centres will be, where something will open up, who is what - because the state is the financing of this is not a municipality - then this thing can be arranged. And what's even more in the sky is screaming if you look at who's leading the world for higher education. Mr. Jambrek. What is Mr. Jambrek? What function does he have in higher education? If this exclusive case does not point to some form of the worst corruption, I am also not a member of the fifth term. And what we're going to have to solve here is the most pressing thing: between the public and the private. How much we will respect the private initiative and how much it is able to survive on its own and how much we will be able to do, if we give some money, what we will give and what levers of power we have in there and how much will be in public. Because, look, one university professor at a public university is limited by his behavior from the amount of work he gets to the salary he gets, and someone in a private club can cover, but if he gets the right concession, he gets the money from the state, he gets the money from the students, he collects different fees and fees from the others. It can happen to us that if we do not balance this market share properly, we will spread what is very easy, and the higher education network, which has already happened in many countries since Slovakia, which had its own time of 20 universities, it can be compared to us, for which "live baptism" did not know which university means anything and when after "rank list" in the world they mean nothing. If our goal is to save higher education in this way, this is, of course, kind of negligible or very problematic. I would like to say that I would like to place it on my heart today when we talk about trying to redefine the national higher education programme and to redefine those third school tolls that he had in mind, as far as I'm talking about the round number of 80 billion tolars allocated to the construction of higher education institutions, but all these funds are almost extremely focused on Maribor and Ljubljana. And it is necessary to look through Slovenia at where the initiative is, because we have the possibility that these funds will then be transferred to other countries, but not to people from where they do not have the conditions, as in Canosso to the Minister and pray and ask if he will be so good and if he can play the laws so that this thing is good. I will, of course, support this amendment, because I am sure, for the first time, that the University of Primorsk needs these spaces. Secondly, I am convinced that this amount is one that will match the solution to this problem. However, I think that - you know, respected colleagues and colleagues, if another such guarantee law for the newly established University of Nova Gorica comes along, and another such law for the "new university", under the terms of Celje, etc., then this will point to the fact that in Slovenia, when we do this school policy, we do not know who drinks and who pays. Take the words I just said here in good faith. Let us support, as we supported the birth certificate of the University of Primorsk, this amendment, and also support the law in its entirety, so that the Primors can work. The Kurds were so smart that they took what the state was offering them at the time, they set up a university, they're in development. When I lead foreign delegations down, they're fascinated by how much they've achieved in this short time. However, I think that the Primors, if not now, but in the future should unite their forces and establish a single university that would go from Nova Gorica to Kopra, because if I speak in a national sense, we would also protect the belly of our Slovenian chicken on the western side of the border.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you, Comrade Moge. I give my word to the MPs. Spending. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I am particularly pleased to be able, as a Member, to support the draft law and also the amendment tabled by our parliamentary group, which took place "lapsus calami". The amounts we read in the budget are often written in thousands of dollars, but nothing catastrophic has happened yet because we will only vote on this amendment in the evening and it is not the first time that any mistake in the amendment has been corrected in due time. That is why I consider the harsh performance of my colleague, Černač, to be unnecessary, and I cannot place it in the sonic system that rules under this law and with the support of this amendment. Now to the point. I would also like to see that similar support, as received by today's bill, would also be given to the proposal for a law that spoke about the guarantee for the loan to be paid for the construction of the National and University Library in Ljubljana, which has not happened, especially because I consider the library to be an inevitable and indispensable component of every university space. We call the library the heart of every educational system. Unfortunately, even then it was not possible to achieve this, in the absence of at least some of the remedial shortcomings which the government considered to have arisen in the draft law, there was no willingness to amend the law with an amendment or amendments to that extent, in order to also eliminate the high costs that the National and University Library must pay for the rental of premises and everything else that was stated in the law. But when I say my support for the law and the amendment, I would like to point out one more thing. According to a number of universities that are acceptable according to some standards, the formation of the Slovenian higher education space is around how many people the university forms. Let's let what they say to a million people is one university. That is why I am aware or thinking that the number of universities in the Slovenian higher education area should increase, they talk about different numbers, concern especially because I also read the opinions of higher education colleagues, who point out that Slovenian universities, which will be difficult to compete on a list of quality universities in comparison with European universities of the young university, and that the collapse of the Slovenian higher education space will only help to make Slovenian universities more resilient universities and that the outflow of highly educated people from Slovenia will only accelerate this. In addition, I am concerned that the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology has not been able to hear a clear answer to the question on several occasions about the creation of a higher education agency that would play an extremely important role in this context, since the conflict of interest in higher education has just been highlighted. Therefore, a public agency should be set up, without influence, such as and otherwise, to take care of the evaluation of study programmes and the quality of Slovenian higher education programmes, wherever they are already taking place. This is once again an opportunity to call for reflection on whether everything we plan can always be justified only on the basis of cost-effectiveness, economy, some statistics, the need to reduce the number of employees among public servants on the one hand, and, on the other hand, we know that they also require new employees in other bodies; of course, I am thinking about the professionalization or professional employment of three presidents of higher education councils or the demand for five new employees in the higher education world, but there is something else. I also see no reason why three universities could not suck up to themselves as organizational forms of other emerging, in the Slovenian space of scattered colleges. After all, I worked alone for several years at the University of Maribor, where it is known that part of his university is also in Kranj, and now in Celje, as well as in Ljubljana. So I see no reason why the three organisational, strong higher education bodies would not be able to cover what is likely to prove in time in higher education, that the generations of young people who are enrolled are weaker, in fact later than they appear in primary school and will be shown in secondary schools, but also in higher education, because I doubt that, in the case of a network of higher education institutions, in particular universities, as we are now instructed, they will provide such high quality that our colleges will be attractive enough for so many students from abroad to replace this smaller number of domestic students. Read only data, how many students, for example, are already going from northeast Slovenia to Gradec or to Vienna. It would also be possible to discuss the reasons for such a discussion. However, it is certainly not possible to agree to such "ad hoc" setting up university centres, because quality in higher education institutions is growing slowly and 50 years in the life of a university is nothing compared to really famous and old universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you. It's a replica of a friend of Blackwich's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u56	In order not to make unnecessary use of this amendment, my esteemed colleague mentioned me again. There is a magnetogram in it to see how sharp my words were. But if some of you measure the sharpness of the words according to which group one comes from, then you must attribute it to yourself, not to what was said. My words were no more harsh than the words of many others on any other occasion, but I was more silent than I was involved in the debate. In this case, though, if you have acted with humility, create an image for yourself. I said that we had the intention of proposing to settle this matter with the amendment until we had a clear answer, whether ZIPRO allows it or not, we could not do it. And we did nothing but correct our amendments by misapplying the amendment. And there was no need to fix it again. But there's nothing wrong with getting along. And I would like to ask that we actually stop squabbling around because the content is completely different and different. But we're talking about this amendment, I have to say, everything else, just not the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Aurelius Yuri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u58	Thank you, Vice President. I mean, the argument about the content of the amendment doesn't seem necessary. We all know, Comrade Chernač, that there was a billion 600 in our intentions and that there is no doubt here. Now that we are all rowing in the same direction, I am pleased, of course, that this spirit created by the Club of Coastal Members extends to the entire hall and that such consensual support for this law will also happen when we row all in the same direction, without communication to one another and to another, who rows faster, who has a longer oar. Let us all go together, and here we have set ourselves this goal. I'd just like to say and point out once again what was at the outset. It is a guarantee, the financial foundation of the university's supporters is solid and from this title I think the state has nothing to fear, but it is good to stand behind it. The cave is open, Foresteria and Armeria, mentioned by counterpart Cernač, are already the skeleton itself, working on it, building a new building behind them, even archeological excavations are slightly more expensive, but the thing goes on. On this occasion, I would once again urge the minister and the government to give serious thought to the initiative to join our coastal university in the projects of the Mediterranean University, supported by the Parliamentary Euro-Mediterranean Assembly. I have once given this initiative on behalf of our delegation. I hope that there will be a time for reflection here too and that the government will stand for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you. I give my word to a Member of the Happy Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u60	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Earlier in the debate, it was said that it was an acceleration, assistance, etc. to the university. I think that this amendment is not about speeding up and helping with work, but about ensuring a level playing field. And: who was wrong about why he was wrong about where this mistake was written, how it was - this is a completely irrelevant topic that is not debateable for today. I think we can be happy that we are so united on this issue and that we will support this proposal with a large majority. It is true, however, that in the Club of Coastal Members, which I have elected myself, and at that time, Mrs Breda Pečanova, a 100% consensus has been reached on this, and that this question has been raised for three years, i.e. the issue of financing the University of the Sea, but it is also a kind of disgrace. And this government - and the former government - did nothing but establish the University of Primorsk, and then let it live and find its own way. One year after the first initiative came, and to this day, when the government made a clear commitment to prepare it, it is also a disgrace for the government to propose it today and that this has not come from the former government or from the current government immediately. Because this issue has been raised since exactly 29 January 2003. It has been pointed out by almost all Members, and I am personally happy to save it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you. Member Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. Today we are talking about the guarantee of the University of Primorska. This is an extremely important issue, as the endorsement of this amendment proposed by the Social Democracy on the increase of funds and the law that we will adopt in its entirety means, first and foremost, supporting Slovenian development and also increasing its potential, and especially enabling students to work in conditions where they can work well and with good quality. This, of course, is especially true today, when we, as one of the members of the European Union, are involved in the process of creating a common European higher education space, which will, inter alia, allow for the exchange of views and also the unification of certain aspects of the creation of higher education. As a co-signatory under this proposed law, I will support this amendment, even though the drafters of this law initially spoke of millions rather than billions of dollars. I believe that this was done by mistake, however, Mr Bevk initially said that they had noticed this error, but it should be mentioned here that they only noticed the error when the Slovenian Democratic Party tabled its amendment and then, of course, this amendment became irrelevant. But to go back to the content itself. The fact is that individual universities, which fall under the auspices of the University of Primorska, today face daily inappropriate spatial opportunities that do not allow normal study, nor students who study in these universities, nor professors who teach there. It is therefore necessary to ensure the appropriate spatial conditions of the University of Primorsk and thus enable it to implement its programmes in a qualitative manner. The analyses have shown that the University of Primorsk is in a poor and unenviable financial position, particularly as regards the technological and functional equipment of the Faculty, which are members of the University of Primorsk. That is why, of course, I support not only this amendment, but also the law as a whole. However, I would like to point out here that I also welcome all the efforts made in this area in the past, which have also certainly encouraged us to talk today about the bill, which I think should have been adopted substantially earlier. Why he was not - they will certainly be more able to tell the opposition's colleagues about this. However, it is not possible to overlook the efforts of the President of the Republic, Dr. Janez Drnovška, who in the past organised many discussions on the role of knowledge and science in Slovenian society. I would like to stress, however, that this is precisely what I am concerned about yesterday's exit from the biggest opposition party of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, because I fear that this also means a step back in terms of understanding. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u63	Ambassador Eva Irgle, I am obliged to warn you right now that this is not the subject of today's debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u64	I don't know if [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u65	Please, if you stick to the content [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u66	is a sin to speak of the President of the State, then [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u67	the amendment mentioned, or I'll take your word for it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u68	I'm talking about the amendment, because it's about the amendment. The fact is that President Drnovšek has worked hard in this area and with his exit from the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia in the past. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u69	Colleague Irgle, second warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u70	In short, I agree with this law to allow for accelerated technological development as well as a faster adaptation to the requirements of the European Union. That is why I will support this law, as well as the amendment, because this amendment makes it possible to provide an additional financial source. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u71	I give my word to Ambassador Bogdan Barovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! So we're talking about the first amendment, where the number for the $900 guarantee came up, not a billion and a half, as envisaged in the marriage proposal, which of course is good. But if we're talking about this, given that things are getting more and more politicized, as far as I can tell, sometimes it's necessary to say honestly how it happened. Following a proposal for a state guarantee of one billion and a half dollars at the same meeting of the parent working body, the Finance Committee, the representative or secretary-general of the University of Primorska made it clear that they had made an investment programme to review the available resources, to find out by the estimated funds from the 2006 and 2007 budget that they had used the term "strikes" for a billion and 900 and a few more million. So it actually came to this number, and, clearly, then somehow together on the parent's working body we found that what the purpose of the State's guarantee is for a concrete proposed amount of billions and a half if all the needs are calculated and proven by a billion 900. And thank God that we have come to this conclusion that together we have found that this country has invested x money in the 2006 and 2007 budget, and to make all investments it takes y money, the difference is a billion 900 and a few million more. And now it doesn't make sense to say who wrote something, what it isn't, why it isn't. It is more sad that when we examine all the documents, we see first that this country has a fundamental development programme in the field of science and education for all universities built for 2003 to 2008, that all universities have or should have projects and programmes for their development, but the saddest thing is that we hear that a university youth, whom we have all unanimously established and supported, is being followed by the University of Ljubljana and the University of Maribor with a proposal for a law on the guarantee of the country. It is right to follow it, but only tracking in equal or approximately equal percentages does not achieve the objective and content of a respected colleague and colleague. I would be the first to make it out of the budget and from the guarantee law, if we had to talk today about three billion tolars, but believe me, there would be something else to do because we forget that we are now allowing the University of Primorska normal development, but we are forgetting what we have already said under another law; that there is no housing, housing capacity for an increasing number of students. This is probably not already included in the investments envisaged at a billion 900. So, I want to say that we should follow the programmes, projections, executions, work, demand, content, the demand offered by the University of Primorska, but not just follow, I don't know if the country's guarantee is Ljubljana and Maribor, which has so many and so many students, so much so, then we'll give the coastal about the same percentage. No, let's give her more if she needs to. The point is that it is right that we have reached the number of a billion 900, that it is sad that we have only heard this number at the sitting itself, that we have not learned this number before, which confirms the words of the legislative and legal service, that it all seems a little too superficial, too fast, too little shown, too little said and too little projected. And instead of knowing on their own from the professional services and from the Ministry of Finance that the 2006 and 2007 budget provides for so much and so much money and that the university needs so much and so much that there is a billion and not a billion and a half. It's sad to find that out when we have to make a second decision. No harm, the amendment is here and also in the Slovenian National Party, as you have heard, we will support it, with the desire and desire that the University of Primorska develop to make its business, its work visible, transparent, transparent, as is the work of universities in Maribor and Ljubljana, and in particular transparent, as regards the costs of all these universities. But for the next time, colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about this today, and we know what the need will be for the government to make such a projection as is necessary next time. How much money will be needed by 2008, it is defined, the university needs to make the projection and it is necessary to provide it first and foremost - and we agree with it in the Slovenian National Party - the budget resources, only later can we talk and also help with the guarantee law, which we will gladly support, to develop this university.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you. In view of the fact that, during my performance by my colleague Barovic, I have received some suggestions that I have unjustifiably reminded Ambassador Irglovo, allow me to remind you once again that in the debate, Article 1 and the amended amendment by Mr Sam Bevek is in place. Article 1 does not refer in any way to the content previously referred to by Mrs Eva Irgle. He's talking about the guarantee, the principal's height, interest, credit costs, the Ministry's consent. It has nothing to do with Mr Drnovsk's resignation from a political party. That is why in advance, I will also remind all those who will not stick to the content and thus try to emilemise on a groundless basis, reminding you, for the third time, I will also take the word. We continue the debate. Member Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u74	I would just like to draw attention to the debate that was on the committee, on the working body when we adopted this law, and today the dilemma about the amendments is opening. I want to say that the Social Democrats have very clearly pointed out this problem, that it is necessary to make it possible to borrow up to a billion 932 million tolars. Of course, the motioners did not take this into account, and today this dilemma opens needlessly. So our position has been clear all the time and I also expect this amendment to be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to say that I was very, very pleased when I saw the President of the National Assembly's announcement that a guarantee law had been introduced to rent a loan for the University of Primorska. Here I would just like to repair my colleague Rudi that it is not about the Kopercans who were very smart, but about the Primors. With regard to the University of Primorsk, which has a real seat in Cyprus, it is better to use the word relationship Primorci and Primorska than Koper. Not that we have anything against Koper, but, you know, Primorska is a very broad term. I just wanted to say that I didn't care who was signed under the law. I was glad that half of the Club of Coastal Members had been signed. However, I was sad because other maritime Members under this law were not signed. And it would be right for a colleague and colleagues, if, in a manner such as the Maritime Members were to work together, they would also offer this law to us for signature. And when you realized that the amendment was wrong and you agreed with it, because otherwise you wouldn't have tabled an amendment, it would have been just as right for you to turn to your colleague Bevek or me and say, "You know what, let's fix this amendment together." That's all I expected from you. And thank you for setting this off. Thank you, too, for exposing yourself, because I know well that you had to reach agreement within the government coalition, that you are also in the government, with the Minister and, above all, with the Minister of Finance, you probably had to put a lot of effort into driving this law forward. However, one observation, when you need our help from other coastal Members, you will probably ask us about it. When you don't need it, then we're gone, and I'd ask you to work together, not everyone. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u77	The last on the list of Member(s) declared or of Members and Members of Parliament is Member Jakob Preseknik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. From the outset, in my presentation of the opinion of the Group, I stressed that we support both this law and we support the amendment that has been tabled. However, after today's debate, this is what we are listening to. So we all support this amendment in this number, which is the day, but we listen primarily to who submitted it. Therefore, I am once again convinced that my belief at the outset before the marriage was introduced is that this belief is right that it is one of those laws that should be taken care of by the government, which should be put in place by the government or prepared by the competent ministry. Then there would be much less of this discussion today and perhaps even a little more substantive discussion, which I do not dispute, was. Mistakes happen. Apparently, it happened to the Social Democrats when they tabled this amendment, and apparently it also happened to a colleague of Irgle who claimed that the amendments had been tabled by members of their parliamentary group, although this amendment was tabled by a group of Members, including one of our colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you. Minister Zupan also took the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I listened with interest to this discussion and I think that in most cases, when it came to content, it was very constructive. In addition to some prestigious discussions, which are understandable, I agree in particular with the need to present the entire network of these Slovenian or higher education centres in Slovenia, because one of our main priorities was the regionalisation or expansion of the Slovenian higher education area. The second fact is that we have been waiting for the financial perspective to be adopted. if it has not yet been fully confirmed in the European Parliament. However, about how many European funds have been allocated to Slovenia. Now we're about to make this whole cut. I have here before me only a draft of the entire network, I have done it so precisely that after years by 2012 it has been done by individual activities. Let's say that the peak of this activity is in 2008 with twelve and thirteen activities, then since 2006 it has grown to 5, 7, 7, 9, 12. It is 7, we call it, centres in Slovenia, which are distributed completely. In addition to the two main, i.e. the Ljubljana and Maribor region, there is a coastal region, there are campuses, if I call them campuses in one word, we can use this term as a common name, and of course campuses in Celje, New Town, Prekmurje, Gorenjska and Koroška are also taken into account. So that's the point where campuses are supposed to grow from or from these higher education centers. It is also clear that the number of Slovenian universities is in Europe, and this statistics are in the process of preparing these measures for a strategy that will complement Slovenia's development strategy, a strategy in the field of higher education, which provides accurate data and also comparisons. The average of Europe is two and a half universities per million inhabitants. We have one and a half. And that follows the other sequences of this distribution. Of course, it doesn't matter whether college exhibits are set there or whether they're independent institutions. Of course, quality is more important. Here it must be said that NUK 2 is also involved in these activities, i.e. the one on which the discussion was made. One of the Members explicitly mentioned this. I think this is clearly important for Slovenia that this NUK 2 is actually involved in this network. Of course, I also agree with this that, of course, 50 years is a small or short time for the life of the university and that, of course, the quality and reputation of a university is built on long hands, so it means that it is actually more important than the evaluation of self-evaluation and even more important than self-evaluation, and this is the recognition of all those who have worked in higher education positions at any time or anywhere, of the fact that self-evaluation in some way is overestimated in Slovenia. To get down on the real ground, we look ourselves in the eye and tell ourselves what this quality is, and we try to improve this quality here in our own place. And that's what I'm going to learn from you, who told me a lot of smart things, and I'm going to totally try to sort this out into some kind of system. To conclude, this network, which we are currently planning, is said to be somewhere between EUR 50 billion and 75 billion, or about EUR 300 million. We believe that this is an acceptable sum which, of course, can be increased, and the question is how many of these projects will be made. So, so much for this whole thing. And I am once again grateful that you have unitedly supported both the coastal Members and Members of all the Members of the Group. And I think the matter is more than mature to receive. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you, Minister. I give my word to the proposer, my colleague Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u82	Thank you very much. On behalf of all the applicants, I would like to express the joy of the support that this law has received and the amendment to it. On this occasion, I would also like to say that, when we came from a number of billions of 500 million tolars in the basic text, we did so in comparison with the two other universities. It seemed kind of normal to us that these relationships were about the same, given the extent of the programmes of individual universities. And given the extent of the programmes, the percentage of the percentage that was obtained by the 2003 guarantee law to the University of Maribor and Ljubljana was also set for the University of Primorska. So this amount, which I estimate from the points of view presented, is going to go beyond the frameworks set out three years ago for the other two universities, which is nothing bad, of course. Given the opportunities offered by ZIPRO, I think such a solution is also acceptable. However, as the comparison already on the parent committee with the NUK has been reexamined today, I would like to point out that this comparison cannot be drawn in this regard. Indeed, the NUK is a multitude of unresolved relationships. It's twice-bought, paid for uncleared land. It's about such complicated legal procedures where a law would go empty. In the case of the University of Primorsk, this is a completely different situation. I mentioned earlier, these are the lands and buildings that have been transferred free of charge by individual local communities for the implementation of university study programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.35 hours. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Minister very much for attending the meeting. We're moving to five. TIME OF DAY - ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE HYPOTHECARY AND COMMUNAL COMMUNICATION LAW. The debate is expected to take 55 minutes. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly and I intended to give my word to the representative of the Government for further explanation. The draft law was also regarded by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. At its 12th meeting on 12.1.2006, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal of the Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bond submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and acceptance. As additional material, working material, the members received a proposal for amendments to the Committee on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly attended the meetings of the Committee. On the basis of the applicant’s explanation, the basic objective of the proposal is to introduce in both our legal order and practice an instrument of the so-called flag or covered bond, which represents a very high credit quality securities, which means the legal structure of a specific type of obligation, such as extremely safe investments to attract investors, in the largest part of the insurance undertaking and investment funds, including pension funds, in this context, that is, in particular, institutional investors who, due to the nature of their business, have a free long-term asset at their disposal, at the same time the obligation to impose them safely in the first place. According to the applicant's assessment, the implementation of these decisions should have no financial implications for the state budget. The Legislative and Legal Service has prepared 50 comments per 50 articles from a total of 62 articles. Part of these comments were taken into account in the proposals for amendments to the Committee. The representatives of the proposer stressed that the purpose of the mortgage and municipal obligation law is to lay the legal basis for issuing bonds that would be covered by mortgage loans or loans to persons under public law. In doing so, it is important that those types of bonds represent extremely safe investments which are primarily intended to attract institutional investors who, due to the nature of their business, have free long-term resources. In doing so, they want to enable banks to invest in housing financing, which would thus become more cost-effective and, at the same time, longer term. The difference between the two bonds is only in the covered property, which consists of either mortgage loans or loans to persons of public law, with the final guarantee of the State. Since both instruments envisaged can only be implemented under precisely defined legal conditions, they are primarily targeted at the safety of holders. Thus, the basic principle of the proposed law is the principle of the security of both bonds and their holders, taking into account that the issuers are exclusively banks that have obtained authorisation to issue them. This is particularly true of the high quality of the assets covered, since it is mortgages or loans with State guarantees and the special supervision of the assets by the custodian. However, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service was asked if the proposed amendments to the Committee were an appropriate response to their comments, but it was said that the amendments followed the comments made but did not address some general comments, both with regard to the proposed introduction of the terminator, the definition of the underlying assets in terms of legal system coherence from the existing terminology. There are no questions concerning the protection of public interest and institutional investors. After a broader debate in which it was concluded that the law, due to such a large number of comments, was not suitable for further consideration, we also voted on it and, nevertheless, the opinion of most discussers turned towards the need to proceed wisely with the proposed procedure, the adoption of this law. In the end, we adopted amendments to this law. However, a special amendment to Article 3 has been adopted, which should also allow for the necessary addition if necessary at today's meeting itself but no amendment has been tabled, and a proposal for a law based on Article 133, which we propose to be adopted by the National Assembly, has been finalized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you for the position of your mother's working body. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Colleague Weber, procedurally. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u86	Presidents, given that this is an extremely important law, which has also been supplemented by the Committee, and given that the applicant was not present at the beginning of the hearing, I propose that you allow an additional explanation to be given by the applicant to this law, if he wishes to submit it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u87	Comrade Webber, thank you for your initiative. I'll take it. However, I would like to ask all government representatives to come to the meeting of the National Assembly precisely to allow the National Assembly to carry out its work as planned. Just like you get me the time rate or schedule of individual speakers. However, I will accept the proposal of my colleague Veber and invite a representative of the government to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. The proposal for the Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bond, which is under consideration today, was forwarded by the government in November 2005 to the National Assembly for first reading. The main objective of the law is to structure precisely on the basis of a specific type of bond, namely a mortgage and utility bond which will be covered by mortgage loans or loans to persons of public law. In view of its limited coverage, such a bond has the property of an extremely safe investment, which is why it will attract, in particular, institutional investors who have free long-term assets to invest safely. Banks will be given the opportunity to refinance their mortgage loans and loans to public entities by issuing mortgage or utility bonds. The value of such a method of refinancing mortgage loans is the lower exposure of the bank to risks which, in the case of a long-term bank financing long-term loans with largely short-term deposits, results from a discrepancy between long-term asset positions and short-term liabilities positions. This bond, due to its high rating, which provides a legal security element, allows the bank to refinance these loans more cost-effectively. For the reasons mentioned above, long-term housing loans will have a more favourable interest rate. Something else about the fundamental principles of this proposed law. The essence is the principle of the security of the bond or the security of mortgage and utility bonds holders, which is provided through a number of types of provisions of the law. The basic principle is the principle of coverage, which ensures that obligations under mortgage or utility bonds issued are covered at all times by the highest quality legal property. The critical property of the mortgage bond consists of mortgage loans and the critical property of municipal bonds from loans to persons of public law. In both cases, this is an extremely high-quality asset that is provided with mortgage quality insurance on residential and commercial property in the case of mortgage credits. However, in the case of loans to persons of public law, these are loans with a State guarantee. The scope of the covered asset must be nominal at any time at least as much as the claims for mortgage bonds issued, taking into account interest. In addition to nominal compliance, the law also requires the compatibility of the covered assets with issued bonds after the maturity, interest on foreign exchange exposures. I would also draw attention to the important fact that mortgage and utility bonds can only be issued under precise conditions laid down in the law, which are aimed at the safety of mortgage holders or municipal bonds. The law also builds bond security through the provision that bonds may be issued only by banks that have previously been authorised to issue mortgages or municipal bonds, where the law specifies the conditions to be met by the bank in order to obtain such a permit. A bank authorised to issue mortgages or municipal bonds may grant mortgages or loans to public entities alone and may buy them from other banks. For this purpose, the law specifies or regulates the transfer of such loans from the bank which it has granted to the issuer. The law also requires that the assets be kept in a special cover register separately from the other assets, as the nominal value of the covered assets and mortgage bonds in circulation must be visible all the time. The critical register shall be supervised by a custodian whose primary task is to ensure the qualitative and quantitative adequacy of the assets covered. The provisions in the event of bankruptcy are also important. In the event of bankruptcy of the issuer, the law provides for the priority position of mortgage holders and municipal bonds vis-à-vis the other creditors of the issuer. The legal provisions ensure that, in the event of bankruptcy, the critical property remains intact and is therefore separated from the bankruptcy mass and is not subject to liquidation. However, a further and continuous payment of the bondholders shall be ensured by the appointment of the cover manager. Now a few words about regulation in other European countries. In most European countries, the Institute of Mortgage or Critical Bonds has long been a tradition. Although this arrangement of the mortgage bond model in other countries is not entirely uniform, it can be said that it is almost identical. There is currently no harmonisation of legislation at European level in this area, but it is important to mention that last year the Commission of the European Union published a Green Paper entitled 'Hipoteric Credits in the EU', which shows the Commission's intention that there will also be some unification in the common market in this area. We can conclude from everything that it is necessary for Slovenia to also adopt appropriate legislation on mortgage and utility bonds, thereby giving banks the possibility of a new form of refinancing of their mortgage loans and loans to public sector individuals. We anticipate that this bond will play an important role in improving housing financing while also giving institutional investors the opportunity to invest their assets in long-term and safe financial instruments in the territory of Slovenia. That'll be all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you for your position. We are now moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I call on the representative of the SD Group of Members, Mr Janko Vebra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye, everybody! The mortgage and utility bond law means the legal structure of a specific type of bond as an extremely safe investment to attract investors. The highest part is intended to include insurance companies, investment funds and pension funds in this context. In short, institutions which, due to their nature, have free long-term resources at their disposal, which must be invested in a safe manner. Such funds will be collected by banks, the law "may" invest in housing financing, which can become more cost-effective and longer-term, due to lower risks and cheaper resources. With the Social Democrats, of course, we support this possibility of cheaper and faster housing, but we note that the law is not detailed enough and we lack more detailed arrangements so that in the future we will not have possible similar cases like today's Mutual, because it is pension funds, investment funds and insurance companies. In particular, we note that there is no clear text in the work concerning banks that issue mortgage and utility bonds. The text of the law speaks of banks being able to invest in housing financing, but the relationship between housing and other commercial properties is not cleared. In fact, we do not know what direction the government is taking, whether it wants to promote housing, or it wants to promote commercial real estate. And this is one of the great shortcomings of this text, and last but not least it's left to the bank. Under this law, the Bank will be free to decide for what purposes mortgage and utility bonds will be issued. In addition, we find that the concept of a person of public law is not defined. This was mainly the case in the definition of covert assets. And the very coverage of the assets for both bonds is different and then the bonds also differ. The critical property of mortgage bonds consists predominantly of mortgage loans and the critical property of municipal bonds consists predominantly of loans to persons of public law. And here there is no clear relation of this law to the Public Finance Act, which defines the public sector, as well as the manner and extent of the borrowing and issuing of guarantees or guarantees by the State, by the local self-government and by the public sector. We have to believe that this law allows the borrowing of loans to persons of public law from countries that are parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area and from Switzerland. The local community is therefore a local community from all these countries. Whether this law will allow for faster development of local communities in other countries than at home is one of the issues that we also face in this text. To answer this question, we should certainly have a clear relation to the Public Finance Act or whether the Public Finance Act even prevents lending to local communities of other countries, since the Public Finance Act is a law that deals with public law in our country. So this is an uncleared text, which, in our view, is a major flaw in this law. We would like to point out that it is precisely because of these uncertainties that the financial consequences in the country may have in the future, since the State must guarantee unlimitedly under this law the loans to be leased on behalf of persons of public law. Of course, it also raises a major question in the statement in the explanatory memorandum, which is set out in this law, that it will have no implications for the state budget. We will support the law, but we also expect further clarifications from the proposer that there will be no serious public funding implications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you, colleague Weber. I invite the representative of the New Slovenia Group to the floor. Ambassador Cyril Testen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! Today we have on our agenda in our second reading the mortgage and utility bond law. In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we support the law because we believe that this will enrich and improve the Slovenian capital market and make a substantial contribution to a better supply and a faster solution to housing problems. In our view, the adoption of the law is necessary because our banks are in an unequal position compared to other countries of the European Union, where in most cases they have already adopted the law and in the rest of the countries they are preparing for its adoption. In Slovenia, we have long negotiated this law for adoption and finally found a solution that was consistent with all interested parties and was also appropriate for the legislative procedure. The basic principle of the proposed law is the principle of the security of mortgage and utility bonds, which is ensured through the principle of coverage, ensuring that the obligations of mortgage or utility bonds issued are covered at any time by the highest quality of the covered assets. The principle of monetary interest and manual compliance of the asset with its issued mortgages or municipal bonds allows for the minimisation of market risks; the principle of separation of assets from other assets, which allows a clear review of the coverage of covered bonds and the possibility of its separation from other assets of the issuer in the event of its bankruptcy; the principle of additional supervision of covered assets by the issuer of an independent custodian; the principle of priority of mortgage and utility bonds holders in the event of insolvency; the principle of limiting the issuance of such bonds to banks that meet the specific additional conditions arising from the statutory requirements of the Banking Act. The aim of the law is, first of all, to offer institutional investors who, due to the nature of the work, have long-term resources, additional favourable investment opportunities in the domestic market. For now it is happening that funds are being invested primarily abroad. Another important objective that will be achieved by the adopted law is the additional favourable opportunities for renting long-term housing loans on very favourable terms and on significantly longer terms, which is very important for high housing loans. In Slovenia we also had mortgage loans in the past, but they were shorter than in other countries because they were covered by bank deposits. Moreover, the argument that mortgage loans will be a national housing scheme is not true because the national housing scheme is to promote housing based on state subsidies while mortgage lending is based on pure market bases. Mortgage banking and housing savings schemes are complementary over the longer term and will together help to increase supply and lower housing prices. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a mortgage and municipal bond law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Comrade Presbyterian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance, all in attendance! The proposal for a mortgage and utility bond law introduces a bond instrument into our legal system. This is a specific type of bond, which is a very safe investment and which is based on the objective of allowing investment to investors who have long-term assets at their disposal and who in particular want to invest safely. When we talk about potential investors, we have in mind, in particular, investment funds and insurance companies, i.e. institutional investors. If we analyze the current situation in Slovenia, we find that the fact that mortgage bonds are not regulated in our legal order has certain negative consequences. It happens that the funds that potential investors could invest in so-called mortgages or utility bonds are now being invested elsewhere. In most cases, it's probably abroad, which is certainly not our interest. We want to enable domestic investors to invest in Slovenia as much as possible. The essence of the mortgage and utility bond is the principle of the security of bonds that can only be issued by banks under certain conditions. There are many fuses that provide a safe investment in these bonds, so a number of positive effects are expected. It is very important that the regulation of these bonds should accelerate investment in certain areas, in particular housing financing. The realisation of these expectations would have a very positive impact on housing, which is known to present a relatively large problem in Slovenia. The fact that housing financing would be valued or investment in housing would also have positive effects on the economy itself and, of course, economic growth. On the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the draft law was aligned with the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service. We believe that there is now a proposal before us, which is adequately defined and legally appropriate for the follow-up process. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will be supported by the law because of all the advantages it brings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you. We are moving on to the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Comrade Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! It is true that it is the basis for our work to look at the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law; these have been determined in several indents. It was essential that we do not have legal arrangements to issue bonds, that the advantage of such a method as these bonds bring, refinance mortgage loans and thus reduce the exposure of banks to the risk that a lower risk would result in a lower banking margin and thus cost mortgage loans; the bonds enable issuers to refinance their mortgage loans in a cost-effective manner and so on. Of course, it is also clearly and loudly written in the explanation of the law, where the main solutions are that there are two types of bonds, how these two differ, who can issue them and who else is defined in this very large law. However, since I am also a member of the parent financial committee, I was, of course, at our meeting, where we discussed in the second reading the proposal of the mortgage and municipal bond law, where I have very serious concerns myself and my colleagues from the Slovenian National Party. It's very simple to say why. Given that we are the legislative branch of power, we know what the hierarchy of legislation is in the National Assembly. It is also clear to all those who are members of this committee who know each other or learn much, as they do themselves, from working in the National Assembly, that we must have a roof legislation called the Securities Act in this case. An integral part of this securities law is also the law that we are considering today. It's all good and good, nothing from here on out. Nothing because we do not have a securities law in Slovenia. Although we have a law, I think from 1989, it's a law from the State, the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. So we don't have our own special securities law. Therefore, we would be obliged in this law, which we are talking about today, to define the bond as debt securities in much more detail than defined. Another time. We all know that there is a law in force, that is, a law we do not have, because there is still a Yugoslav, definition of many types of bonds. THE proposal for a law does not make it clear which types of bonds are involved. However, this is very important because, as we all know, bonds give very diverse benefits. However, the highest level of doubt about the adoption of this law gives guarantees, ensuring that in the process of adoption in the National Assembly there is a very extensive proposal for amendments and complementing the law on the securities market, namely the one mentioned earlier in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Absolutely in the law already under way, the solutions contained in that securities law will also reflect the law that we are still adopting. This logically means that if a mortgage and municipal bond law is passed, this law will probably no longer take into account the many elements of the securities law that the National Assembly forms and adopts later. Which will mean once again the amendment of the law amending the law o, etc., etc. It would be right and fair for this national council to wait for us to adopt a law on securities as a basic law and all the elements that the new law, which will be adopted, will include in the mortgage and municipal bond law. In the Slovenian National Party, we will decide on our own conscience, and I will act on my own as I am on my mother's working body. I estimate that it was not suitable for a second reading, and I also assess today that it is not suitable for the creation of a securities law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Ambassador Willi Rezman will present his position. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Today we are talking about utility bonds and mortgage bonds, which are relatively new in our market, in our everyday life. It is therefore likely that, although the principle is actually very simple, but the mechanisms are quite complicated, a large number of comments on the proposed novel were expected. This is the case for as much as 90% of the amended articles or articles on which the comments were made and about some more than 1/3 of the articles that were adopted by the amendment and amendments on the working body. However, this improved text in our judgment, in the opinion of the DeSUS Group, is good enough and suitable for further consideration and will be supported on our part. However, the situation in which this law is being passed or changed is that we still have a relatively underdeveloped financial market, that we often also have relatively poorly insured players in this market. It is also a matter of having a rather unregulated real estate market and, according to our assessment, a very unbalanced housing market relationship. That's why we have high prices, so we also have high prices and land shortages, and that's why we're also missing a lot of land that would be communally equipped, so we're ready to invest. The law nevertheless intervenes significantly in this area with certain improvements. It foresees and promises more investment, especially those investors we call institutional. It is important for us, for those who represent the interests of DeSUS, to also allow good quality investments of the pension fund or, say, our real estate state fund. It is important that construction may increase and that is also why this novelty is important because it offers certain opportunities for local communities to make investments. Whether the law, as it is suggested, will have real consequences for demographics, for young families and so on, and would not be able to put their hands into the fire because we will see that the purpose or purpose of this law is not, of course, specific in this direction. It will be mainly about the movement of the structure on our market. We see that a large part of the available funds will become more involved in the financial market and less in the real sector, less in the productive areas, and we see that this, of course, means for a number of borrowers the risk of mortgages, which are likely to be followed by a wave of such effects that the borrowers did not want or did not plan. However, I would like to point out in particular that the question has been raised, what in fact do we tend to believe that the basic objective is not to increase, to invest in housing. The main objective is to invest free funds. And those who have these funds, of course, tend primarily to be remunerated with an appropriate profit measure, not just to build apartments. Perhaps another area could be attracted if the profit margin was greater there. While it is welcome that there is an opportunity for the available financial capital, the financial industry remains on domestic soil so as not to move abroad. However, as it comes to mortgage bonds for housing, it is not too much to mention that this is a construction for the market, that there will be no construction for the part of our housing market that is most sub-capacitated, i.e. for the non-profit housing sector. Nevertheless, we estimate that positive effects can be expected and therefore the DeSUS Group will also support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members. My friend Happy Hwauc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! We have before us a proposal for a mortgage and utility bond law that brings new securities to the Slovenian market that we have not known so far. It also proved to be a new matter when we discussed a proposal on the parent's working body, where a lot or a lot of amendments were tabled. The long debate has also shown that it is a new and relatively extensive and complex matter. We do not have experience with such securities, with such or similar ones. However, experience in many other countries in the European Union is very positive, and I am sure that we will also have some positive effects. As mentioned above, these are two bonds which are virtually indistinguishable by their nature or by their elements. But it's just a different cover. From the point of view of investor safety, it is not even that important when it comes to a mortgage to cover loans with which housing or commercial construction is either credited. It is the fact that this is a first-class insurance and that the safety of these investors is maximum. This law will provide us with a very high-quality security on the Slovenian paper market, the quality of which is already very close to those state securities guaranteed by the State. It is important to mention that these obligations will be issued by banks which, of course, will have to meet the relatively strict and broad criteria, with the agreement of the Bank of Slovenia. This will ensure investor safety. It is also important that investors in the event of bankruptcy have virtually the same status as mortgage creditors in bankruptcy. This, of course, will further increase interest in investing in these papers. Banks will, of course, acquire long-term resources to reduce interest and extend the repayment deadlines. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the Slovenian banking market is so developed and that there is sufficient competition between banks that these beneficial effects of changing the structure of resources in the longer term will not then flow exclusively into the profits of the bank, but in fact that those who take these loans will also receive loans at a lower price. The same effect as expected from the mortgage bond is expected in utility. We believe that, due to more favourable credits, public law persons will actually be able to carry out some projects that have been more difficult to access so far. And if I finish. In the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the new law will bring about significant changes, positive changes in two areas, on the one hand those seeking credit either for construction or for other projects, will come to cheaper loans and also with a longer repayment period. On the other hand, investors will be given a new opportunity to invest safely. For this reason, we will support this law in our client.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Nice greeting from my side, and thank you very much to Vice-President Seal for his leadership so far. I would like to take the floor by inviting the last representative of the Group of Members, mag. Practiced to present the LDS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u102	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! On behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament, I say that we will support the proposal for a mortgage and municipal bond law. We have begun to prepare this law in the former government under the leadership of Liberal Democracy. It was completed at the end of 2004, so we will also provide substantive support. In my implementation, however, I will focus mainly on the fact that when we examine individual materials and when we hear the applicants, there is a feeling that the government has a mortgage and municipal bond law, and then some other laws have a partial solution to housing policy, and that it does not really know what the specific objectives of this government are in the field of national housing policy. The Law on Mortgage Municipal Bond should be viewed in conjunction with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the National Savings Scheme, with the amendments to the tax legislation adopted in December 2005 and with the amendments and additions to the Securities Market Act to be considered at one of the following meetings. The point is that these laws are now in the process, but there is not enough substantive linkage between them. If we are first talking about the relationship between the mortgage and municipal bond law in connection with the establishment of the National Savings Scheme, it is not clear whether this law will affect the implementation and maintenance of the sense of the National Savings Scheme. The question is whether, given the level of return, it will still be interesting for the savers or financial institutions that offer it. It is true that the Law on Mortgage Municipal Bond and Amendments and Supplements to the National Housing Savings Scheme Act are not excluded, but the question arises whether the power or purpose of the National Savings Scheme is as present as it was at the beginning of the new millennium, at the end of 1999, when it was introduced. Of course, we would expect the government's answers to this question. Another time. The Mortgage and Municipal Bond Act should also be seen through the tax legislation adopted in December 2005, where a new tax relief, regulated by the Income Law, for the purchase and construction of low-income dwellings is a maximum of 4% of the annual tax base, and is also limited in time. In this regard, we believe that it is also necessary to consider whether the introduction of a mortgage and a utility bond is possible and will, in fact, be feasible if there is not a suitable tax relief, for example, in the form of a tax credit, or if an individual is exempt from payments, such as interest on those loans that will be created on the basis of sources obtained from the mortgage and utility bond. And a third emergency link. In the National Assembly there is a law on securities market and also solutions in this securities market law will be reflected in our assessment of the implementation of the objectives of the mortgage and municipal bond law, and this is not clear. That is why we would like to hear from the government whether the amendments that are now being drafted and the amendments to the securities market law adequately address open issues. We would like the government to give us these answers and opinions, but we will have the law, given that we are assessing that it means a good way to achieve an additional source, mortgage and municipal bond in low interest rates, low inflation, compliance with the Maastricht criteria in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the State Assembly will vote on the law tomorrow, 1 February 2006, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government. It's 6 o'clock. Agenda item - Second defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Price Control. 38 minutes is available for discussion. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. The word has magic. Vizjak, Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The proposed amendments to the Price Control Act relate to three content sets and are minor changes. That is, the first content set replaces, that is, aligns the law with the law on offences and replaces the word "money penalty" with the word "deep". Then the second set of amendments concerns the harmonisation of the amounts of monetary penalties or fines on real value in 1999, since so far there is about 40% real difference between the amounts of fines that were then defined and, of course, because of inflation so far, and the fines remain in the same range. However, the third most important part of the amendments concerns the addition of criminal provisions, since there is currently no sanction control law for certain infringements. This, of course, makes it difficult to effectively monitor price developments, so the amendments also propose sanctioning that the Minister may require pricing firms to have all price control data. This has not been sanctioned so far and in this regard we propose to supplement the criminal provisions, as well as to supplement the penalty for sending incorrect data under Article 8(9) of the Price Control Act, which is also the case in order to obtain incorrect data. Of course, the purpose of all these supplements is to ensure a smooth and effective monitoring of price developments, which form the basis for decision-making and effective functioning of market prices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Rezman, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u106	The government has therefore proposed a law amending the price control law, which is only five years old, even though it was adopted in the previous century. The law is short, it has only four articles, but in principle it is mainly about ensuring a mechanism of state interventionism. In fact, for the mechanism of how the state should intervene on the free market. The law, as well as the explanations, provides that price control is necessary to ensure the effective functioning of the market. Only this should cover both price monitoring and analysis of these prices, the preparation of intervention measures and the implementation of state intervention in relation to market regulation. Thus, the market itself, as we see from the Government, is not perfect. The reasons for the changes have been mentioned, and the main reason is that fines, as in many other laws, are established after the offence law has been passed. It is a matter of correcting the amounts that were written down in 1999 and of defining sanctions for those offences that have so far been impossible to sanction. To this end, it was also presented to the Committee with an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which goes four ways. For the first time, they pointed to the need to correct the title, warned in a way that harmonises amounts which are not normal and which the Offences Act does not provide and pointed out to amounts which are not rounded as usual. They also pointed out that there is an unnecessary duplication of the content referred to in Article 2. Some opinions and comments were accepted by the Government and the Committee. The Committee has thus adopted an amendment that has abolished this duplication of individual provisions, and the Committee has also adopted a rejection of the Government's position that unlimited amounts are needed primarily for the sake of being appropriate in the amount of euro that will not need to be changed for this reason and that it is necessary to correct altitudes, since approximately 40% of the real value of sanctions has been reduced since 1999. Since the Committee agreed with these clarifications to the applicants and has adopted an amendment correcting and improving the proposed text, it has voted on all the articles and on the amendment and proposes a complementary proposal to the national assembly for consideration and adoption.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Mikolič has the floor to present the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u108	Thank you for your words, Madam Vice-President, well-known Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia - The Christian People's Party we will support the amendment of the law on price control relating to the harmonisation of the rules on offences. In the law, in order to comply with the law on offences, the word "money fine" is replaced by the word "deep". In fact, the amendments relate to infringements of the provisions of the price control law and consequently to sanctions followed by infringements of those provisions. This also introduces a new sanction for a misdemeanour in the event of non-compliance, non-transfer of information on prices for goods and services, where the Ministry needs this data to monitor price developments and to control prices before prices in the light of the effective functioning of the market forces. Given that in all the articles we are coordinating the amounts of monetary penalties or fines we call new ones with the rise in the prices of living costs, we can today be satisfied that we have already met certain Maastricht criteria, including the inflation requirement that we are actually meeting all the criteria for taking the euro next year. This is because entry into the ERM2 and a stable euro rate will probably not raise concerns in the future when adopting similar laws, as we have today, when we are also raising penalties to 60 percentage points for certain sanctions, but because fines have not been aligned for several years with the rise in the price of living costs. Today, we can ask ourselves if someone has fallen asleep, as we like to say on a local level, if we have a similar case, or if the former government may have done so. To conclude, as I have already mentioned, we will support changes in the law in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Presečnik has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance, all in attendance! The new law on price control does not bring about substantial substantive changes, as it relates only to the criminal provisions of the law. This is a change in the use of the word "money penalty" which is replaced by the word "deep", and in addition, the amounts of fines for individual infringements are changing, only in order to harmonise with price increases and lay down new penal provisions for more effective price control.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u111	Mr. Secretary, if you'd like to give the phone more quietly, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u112	Amendments to the law are therefore necessary, but they do not bring substantive news. It is also clear from the examination of the law at the meeting of the home committee that there are no serious concerns about amendments to this law, so the members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Minister Mag. Vizjak presented three main reasons for adopting the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on price control. The first, as he said, is compliance with the law on offences. In this context, replacing the term'money penalties' with 'globals'. Okay, if this is necessary, it's right and it's good to do it. The third reason, the addition of criminal provisions, was for some infringements there were no sanctions. The State estimates that for those infringements for which there were no sanctions to be. We're in a state of law, too. Point 2 as the second main reason is to align fines to real value. But, of course, there's a rabbit hidden here, as they call it. In fact, in this part, everyone also stressed that the real value of fines has been reduced by slightly over 40% and that the Ministry considers the proposed increase in monetary penalties based on inflation to be an appropriate basis for an increase, arguing that this instrument has always been used as a rebalancing of amounts. Well, it's interesting, because the fine has never been and the fine will never be a cost of life, it won't be an integral part of inflation. And of course to say that they coordinate fines on the basis of inflation and that it is always an instrument to revalue values, of course it is twisted and invented from the vine, because it is not fair and not beautiful, to all people. That's not true! We cannot compare the amount of fines with inflation because the fine is not a cost of life and under no circumstances affects the level of living costs, the level of inflation - on nothing! If so, then the proposer should say that the state budget needs to be filled, that sanctions should be increased and that they should therefore be increased - I am first in favour. Not to say that inflation is what it will be based on. They were also clearly and loudly warned by the legislature, but the result is quite clear: Article 20, with a fine of a million tolars for corporate offences, if they do not harmonise prices, if they change, supplement or replace the tariff system or similar system, without consent and so on - to a million 440! Okay, it's 44%. And so on, from 200 to 280 thousand, in the 21st article from 300 to 480 and so on. I would be happy if these penalties were even greater because these violations are huge, and I would immediately support them. Of course, I find it funny, and from the vine, twisted and unfair to people, that we plead to increase the fines at the expense of inflation, because it is like a rabbit and a drum. Of course, this is likely to greatly increase the state budget if all violators are also proven to be caught and punished. And if that's the reason, I'll be very happy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Yelen has the floor to present the position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Messengers and Members! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on price control. The applicant aligns that amendment with the offence law by replacing the current term with a fine. With regard to the coordination of the amounts of prescribed fines with the rise in the price of living costs, the level of inflation, in our DeSUS Group, we consider such a mechanism unacceptable, namely, we do not consider fines as such or to be considered as non-life-sustainable. Nor does the Act on Offences provide for such a method of enforcing and modifying the fine for such purposes. The conclusion that the real value of fines has been reduced by a good 40% since 1999 indicates that the current market situation has been adjusted and that the fines have been properly shaped. According to our beliefs and behaviour, a more meaningful fixed and rounded amount of fines in tolars and its Euro equivalents is more meaningful. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that it is necessary to ensure more effective implementation of this law through more effective control and related sanctions, especially for businesses. We will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on price control in our DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Pajk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u118	Dear Vice President, Minister, Secretary, Members, Members of Parliament! The current price control law was adopted in July 1999. The law regulates the control of prices of goods and services and covers measures such as monitoring and analysing price movements, preparing, proposing and prescribing price control measures and the implementation of those measures. The State authorities of the Republic of Slovenia shall exercise control. The Law on Price Control needs to be aligned with the Law on Offences. It's not like there's a word for a fine in this marriage. This should therefore be replaced by a fine in the price control law. It is also necessary to adjust the height of the fines. The price control law should also be supplemented in certain criminal provisions concerning the transmission of price information for individual goods and individual services for the purpose of price monitoring where the Minister prescribes mandatory transmission of data. These criminal provisions have not yet been known by the law, which is necessary to ensure a smooth and effective monitoring of price developments, which is the basis for effective decision-making. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group supports the bill's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. And since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding it, and with this second reading of the proposal for a law. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law tomorrow 1 February in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Second reading of the proposal for a law on the deployment of persons to the international civil mission and to the international organization. The total time of the debate is 50 minutes. Between us, I welcome Minister Ruple with my colleagues and colleagues. Since the draft law has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, I also give the floor to the representative of the Government, i.e. Minister Rupl.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u120	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Act on the secondment of persons to international civilian missions and international organisations was drafted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs after coordination with the national authorities and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. With the adoption of the proposed law, a more orderly system will be provided for the deployment of persons from our country to international civilian missions as well as international organisations. It will regulate the assignment of staff to national and other bodies, not to those who individually apply for public service invitations to work in international civil missions and organisations. The law will address all necessary labour and social issues related to these guidelines. Let me draw attention to some essential elements. Firstly, ensure the fulfilment of the international obligations of the State. The increased role of international organisations, in particular in establishing security and peace in various parts of the world, has, of course, increased the number of United Nations, OSCE and European Union missions and thus the need for experts involved in these missions. Our country must also contribute to these activities. Designation, posting, priority of the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia and its national interests. The law lays down procedures for posting and provides for direct control of the deployment schedule, which should be in line with our foreign policy and also with national interests, including security, economic. This allows the government to have an ongoing review of the entire status of the referral. Third. It is a matter of ensuring transparency of the procedures for the selection of posted persons, providing for a transparent selection of experts and ensuring the possibility of more interested persons applying for individual missions and selecting the best candidate. This shall ensure the determining role and responsibility of the departmental authority in which the posted position belongs. Then it is the provision of regulated working legal conditions for posted persons, questions related to the posting of persons. Everything needs to be regulated in accordance with the requirements of international organisations and at the level of the entire public administration, because today the legislation does not fully address these issues. By the way, for the time of deployment, the law also ensures a level playing field for persons outside the public sector. The posted persons enjoy all rights such as salaries and other benefits, social health and pension insurance, travel and insurance costs, leave, absence from work and other absences. Therefore, the law that we propose allows posted persons to return to their post or post upon completion of the posting, for which they fulfil the conditions and must not be placed in a worse position than they had had before the posting. Then another content, the creation of a national register and the establishment of a network of education and training. A national register of candidates, transparency of possible candidates and so on will be established. Well, in view of the demands of international organisations for certain knowledge and skills, it will also be necessary to provide permanent additional education and training at home and abroad, such as for civil crisis management missions, election observation, respect for human rights, rule of law and so on. We will also establish a statistical review. We have already begun to establish such a review in the drafting of the law, as reflected in this review, our presence in international civil emissions and international organisations, and it is also clear that our representation and active role are increasing. This was particularly noticeable in 2005, which is likely to be linked to our OSCE presidency last year. I would also like to say this, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, that we have taken the amendments of the Committee on Foreign Policy into account and that we have taken into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and consider this to be a qualitative addition to the bill. I ask Members and Members to vote in favour of the adoption of the law on the postings of persons of an international civil mission and an international organisation, together with the amendment of the Committee of the National Assembly for Foreign Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The draft law was also addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy, so I ask the President, the Committee of Mr Jerovsk, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At its tenth regular meeting, held on 18 January, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy considered the draft law on secondment of persons of an international civil mission and an international organisation. In the introduction, the representative of the proposer, Head of the International Organisation and Human Security of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Matjaž Kovacič, explained the bill, explaining that procedures for the deployment of persons to international civilian missions and international organisations must be as transparent as possible, enabling the selection of experts for a particular area to ensure the appropriate quality of the participants in these missions. The Committee therefore agreed, and it also concluded that the proposal for a law thus regulates a set of issues relating to labour and social protection conditions. We have found that the existing legislation in this area does not regulate in sufficient detail and that a new special law is needed. The law will allow individuals sent by the State to civilian missions to be provided with adequate security at a time when they are working in the mission and international organisation, as well as an adequate return to work in Slovenia. The law will also allow the creation in Slovenia of a so-called national register of experts who will be ready and able to operate in international civilian missions, international organisations, so that in future decisions on participation in such missions will be made faster and more qualitative. Individuals who are willing to cooperate will in fact be allowed to be selected after that, because the length of internal procedures is often the one that decides whether in the final stage the individual candidate is actually selected to work in a particular international civil mission, an international organisation. The Committee has also considered some of the comments made by the legislative and legal service on Article 5 and other comments, and we have then accepted certain matters with the government, and I must say that the Committee unanimously approved the bill as necessary and important and also recommends it to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members and to the words of Mr Brenčič on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President, I welcome the Minister and his team and all of you fellow Members. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are quite simply aware of the fact that more than the State of Slovenia is involved in various international organisations and associations, it will also have to physically engage with its people in various missions acting as prevention, both on the issue of security and peace, as well as on the issue of promoting and ensuring economic, social and sustainability of the population and, last but not least, on missions related to the issue of environmental protection. Unfortunately, this fact will often be something that, if nothing else, will significantly employ current policies in the country, to which we have also witnessed in recent days. We therefore support the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group's proposal for a law on the posting of persons to international civil missions and international organisations, which resolves at a normative level all the key issues related both to the selection process and to the posting of candidates, as well as their training to work on a posted mission, and ultimately to all the key issues related to the job and legal position of the posting. It is also important for a secondee to be appointed by means of a proposal for a law specifying the right to re-employment of a secondee to the employer with whom he had a contract of employment concluded prior to his posting after his return or the completion of his work on a seconded mission. This means that the Institute will not be able to abuse the appointment of our people on an international mission for the purpose or desire of the employer after replacement employment. The bill is, in the opinion of our parliamentary group, a good and technically finalized proposal, which guarantees its usefulness in practice, so we will support it without reservation. It also supported the continued implementation of the active policy of the Republic of Slovenia in the international environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u125	Thank you, too. Mr Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we will not comment on this law until we see in the law of the sixth indent of Article 115, which is the other consequences of this law. And I'm not talking about procedural, but I'm talking about because there's a lot of them in this marriage, but they're not defined. Please, if you can deliver them to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We'll try what we can do, but we'll continue the session. My word, Mag. Gdydarsič to present DeSUS's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u128	Dear President! Dear Minister and other representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The DeSUS Group supports the law because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wants to systematically arrange for the deployment of persons of the national mission and the organisation of all kinds and to establish in it the obligations and rights of both posted persons and the sending countries. The establishment of joint international missions has become a necessity, in particular in the context of globalisation, with a view to protecting its and its common interests in achieving certain objectives. On the other hand, the ever-increasing need to establish peacekeeping missions for the coordinated functioning of peacekeeping operations is on the other hand due to the ever-increasing new crisis hotspots. On the one hand, the Republic of Slovenia must, on the other hand, participate, both in missions and in peacekeeping operations, especially when it comes to developments in South-Eastern Europe. Of course, this address increases the number for these purposes of posted persons, which has not been systematically regulated by the legislation so far. The main objective of this law is to harmonise the legal situation of posted persons of the types of employees in and outside the State Administration. In this respect, the law is internationally comparable and regulates the obligations and responsibilities of posted persons, as well as internationally comparable conditions for stay abroad in mission and peacekeeping operations. This is for the benefit of both posted persons and countries. The law below also regulates the status, position and rights of posted persons upon return. Last but not least, this law introduces the establishment of a register of candidates for these needs, to be led by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the assistance of contact persons in other departments and state authorities. Our Group estimates that the law is well prepared and will continue to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u130	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDS Group, I would like to say that, now that some of the dilemmas and arguments regarding the deployment of our troops to the missions are in public, it is particularly important to stress that this is a proposal for a law on the deployment of persons to international civilian missions and international organisations and that this law is not related to military missions and other peacekeeping missions. Slovenia is taking an increasingly active role in international organisations and missions working towards the establishment of security and peace, particularly in the Eastern Europe area, and the need to regulate the legal conditions for the deployment of persons to international organisations and international civil missions has arisen. We are aware of this in the SDS Group of Members, so we welcome the preparation and adoption of this law. The purpose of the law is to regulate issues related to the deployment of persons to international civilian missions and international organisations at the level of public administration and comparable to those of international organisations. However, the aim of the law is to simplify the legal situation and ensure a level playing field when posting employees to and outside State and other authorities. It is very important that the law allows the posted person to return to the post or function for which he fulfils the conditions upon completion of the posting. The law also provides for the establishment of a national register of candidates to be run by the Ministry responsible for foreign affairs. In the SDS Group, we stress that there is a great need for such a law as to define the deployment of civilians to missions. Such referrals are more and more every day, and I am very pleased that the law that is before us today also defines the system, how and how such a person is returned to an international mission and an international organisation to a job or a function that meets the conditions and must not be placed in a worse position than he had before he was sent. This will certainly further contribute to the decision of qualified and quality individuals to participate in missions and thus enhance the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia in the international public. In the interests of the State, such solutions should also be developed in certain other areas relating to public administrations. Finally, I would like to say what I have already said about these categories being more, so once again I stress that we will support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group for all good solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Juri has the floor, on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u132	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Rules of Procedure and, if you will allow me, colleagues and colleagues, have also prevented the lack of will from already at this meeting and, during this week, to address the Government's decision on the disputed and risky deployment of four military instructors to Iraq or to seek consensus on this or to invite the government to withdraw it. Let's just talk about this in an emergency session, hope that as soon as possible before the four soldiers leave. We believe, however, that there will be no problem, with greater support for the bill before us. We attach a law on the deployment of persons to the international civilian missions of the international organisation Social Democrats without any particular concerns. Reverse. We believe that it is absolutely necessary, justly to the affected and to the general public, to regulate the legal situation of persons from the state administration who are officially assigned to civilian missions abroad or to work for a certain period of time in international, including outside government organisation, simplification and uniformity. It is the status, as we have heard, of the situation and rights of our citizens and citizens, civilians and civilians who go abroad because of foreign policy priorities or the interests of the country, who, with their direct presence and also with a personal risk to the security of unstable areas, help to overcome or prevent crises and to protect the civilian population at risk. At least what we as a country owe such a person is that after the mission has been completed and we return home, we provide him with a return to work or a function that he or she has left or to another for which he or she fulfils the conditions. In short, we have a duty to protect her from finding her in a worse position than she did before she was sent. We understand and see that the law does not apply if we look at the already mentioned Iraqi story for the selection and deployment of military and civilian personnel in crisis relief operations and for the promotion of peace under international treaties that formally or morally bind Slovenia and in international organisations in the defence field or in the performance of defence tasks. We therefore ask how such rights are regulated in these cases, even in the case of decisions concerning the deployment of soldiers or other persons to operations and missions that are disputed, without covering the entire policy and the public, I do not think that the affected persons should be harmed. As it is, this is, of course, a question to the proposer, with their status and the legal and labour position when they return home. So, once again, we will support this marriage, as it was written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much. And as the last to present the position of New Slovenia, Mr Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Republic of Slovenia shall, together with international organisations, carry out multiannual activities in accordance with the obligations arising from Slovenia's membership in these international organisations or international agreements. Slovenia has taken an active role in the establishment of a network of international civilian missions in the South-Eastern Europe area with the aim of establishing security and peace. However, there was a need to regulate the legal conditions for posting persons to international organisations and international civil missions. In the New Slovenia Group, we assess that the proposal for a law on the posting of persons to international civilian missions and international organisations is an appropriate solution, so we will also support it. We also supported the amendments of the parent working body, the Committee on Foreign Policy. The amendments summarise the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. The international organisations shall have certain rules on forwardwards concerning both the obligations of the sending State and the seconded persons. The obligations of sending countries are the same in most international organisations. They differ only according to the execution of the referral, whether it is an agreement with the State, a contract with the seconded person or a method of selecting the seconded person. International organisations expect the sending country to provide posted persons with non-discriminatory conditions for and after the time of departure, and this is precisely what the law we are dealing with is governing among others. Slovenia, as a member of a number of international organisations, is obliged to participate in international civil missions and must also have an appropriate legal basis. The deployment to civilian missions and international organisations must take place in accordance with the priorities of Slovenian foreign policy and national interests, and ultimately with economic interests. Procedures for the deployment of persons to international civilian missions and international organisations must be as transparent as possible, enabling the selection of experts for a particular area to ensure the appropriate quality of the participants in these missions. According to the New Slovenia Group, the bill adequately regulates an important set of issues from labour law to social protection conditions. The existing legislation in this area is not sufficiently regulated and the adoption of a new specific law is therefore justified. It seems very important to us that the law ensures that individuals who are sent by the State to civilian missions are provided with adequate security at a time when they are working in the mission and international organisation, as well as an adequate return to work in Slovenia. The law will also allow the creation in Slovenia of a so-called national register of experts who will be ready and able to operate in international civil emissions and international organisations, so that in future decisions on participation in such missions will be made faster and more qualitative. As has already been said, we welcome the law on the posting of persons to international civilian missions and international organisations in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. And since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. Perhaps another explanation for the Slovenian National Party. So the professional services informed me that the law had been introduced, published, in the so-called Lotus Notes, and that a legislative procedure had been initiated. It was the discretionary right of the President of the National Assembly, which I, as chairman myself, regrettably cannot do anything about at this time. Perhaps the government will respond, and the law will be amended accordingly. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u136	Thank you very much for this explanation, Mr President. However, regardless of the fact that you are referring to the discretionary right of the President of the National Assembly, I must protest and remind you that a similar matter has recently taken place when the Slovenian National Party introduced the Health and Insurance Act and that the President of the National Assembly rejected it or did not put it into the legislative procedure because the sixth indent or that section, which is also missing in this government law, is included in the parliamentary procedure and, of course, we are considering it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Of course, I am aware of this, Mrs Žganjer Tavš, but, as it is said, there is nothing I can do at this time, so I suggest we proceed with the agenda. And I hope that this will be somehow retroactively repaired. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the State Assembly will vote on the law tomorrow, 1 February, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT LEGISLATION. The total time of the debate is 3 hours and 55 minutes. We are informed that government representatives are on their way, so I am adjourning the meeting for 5 minutes or for a good 5 minutes and continue at 1300 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u138	We are moving on to the 9th item of the agenda - second reading of the draft drug law. During this time, we have been joined by representatives of the government, among whom I welcome the Secretary of State Dr. Marusič and Prof. Dr. Primožič, Director of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicines and Medical Devices. I also welcome young visitors among us. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr Marusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u139	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In this introductory part, let me present the Act on Medicinal Products at second reading. Medicines are one of the most regulated areas of European legislation in order to protect the health of individuals, to protect animals and to protect the environment. Sufficient supply of quality, safe, effective medicines and thus the protection of public health is therefore a fundamental principle in the development of legislation governing the field of medicinal products for human and veterinary use. The implementation of this principle must, however, be achieved by means that will not hinder the development of the pharmaceutical or medicinal industry in the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union, while at the same time promoting competitiveness across the sector. In this introductory part, let me introduce four more important chapters, which are regulated by law. This is the introduction of comparable medicines, the sale of non-prescription medicinal products in specialised shops, pharmaceuticals organised in a public agency and the introduction of a public agency itself. The bill was addressed by the competent committee of the National Assembly, which expressed its support. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, as the parent working body, considered the draft law at its 10th regular meeting, on 18 and 19 January of this year. In his debate, he gave the most time and attention to the additions made to Article 16 of the bill regulating the system of comparable medicinal products and interchangeable medicinal products, to the articles reintroducing the public agency as a stand-alone body and to Article 79 of the law governing retail transport. With regard to comparable medicinal products, the discussion on the parent working body contributed to complementing the provisions on the delegation of power to identify groups of comparable medicinal products from the originally proposed legal person to the competent minister, thereby ensuring that there is no partial interest in this decision. The Minister classified individual medicinal products in groups of comparable medicinal products, including the principle that individual medicinal products in the comparator group should be made available to the individual patient by the doctor. In order to operate the system of comparable medicinal products, it was necessary to put in place decision-making mechanisms involving expert judgements at both systemic and individual levels. The system-wide assessment shall be carried out by the provisions on relative therapeutic value and taking into account progress on biomedical science and expertise. However, the role of a doctor who knows the medical condition of the patient to whom the medicine is prescribed should be further highlighted. Thus, an additional guard was installed, with which the system of comparable medicines is dominated by professional and ethical reasons over all others. The concept of comparable medicines, as set out in the bill, is not in itself a restriction on the availability of medicines to some critics. Comparability of medicinal products introduced at systemic level may be an important support to physicians in their decision-making of medicinal products. By subsequently upgrading the value model to a given concept of comparability, medicinal products can be an important mechanism to limit the cost of medicinal products. The provisions of the Comparative Medicinal Products Act are, as in the same Article, the proposed provisions on interchangeable medicinal products only to the original technical and technical basis for possible subsequent treatment of medicinal products. The Medicinal Products Act lays down professional frameworks and criteria within which certain medicinal products may be identified at national level as comparable. However, the value model can be subsequently developed in health insurance regulations. Such a mechanism could prevent the over- or uncontrolled growth of public expenditure on medicines and thus the consequences that inevitably arise in the functioning of the entire public health financing system. In the case of the sale of non-prescription medicinal products in specialised shops included in Article 79, which sets out the turnover, provisions were added here that the body responsible for medicinal products in the definition of medicinal products which are in commercially specialised shops may impose restrictions on the strength, size and number of units sold. In addition, only those synthetic medicines which have a favourable benefit-risk relationship are distributed as suitable for sale in specialised shops. The Committee also provides that only full-year-olds can be sold in specialised shops. A new bill should therefore only be issued in specialised shops without a prescription containing the active substances mainly of natural or less synthetic or semi-synthesis or bio-synthesis origin. These medicinal products are characterised by relative safety and are evaluated by the competent drug commission. In order to ensure the protection of public health, it was necessary to specify more precisely the conditions to be met by those medicinal products containing substances of synthetic origin. If there is a sufficient number of evidence-based adverse reactions and this reaction with other substances and contraindications, the required relative safety is considered not to be demonstrated and the medicinal product cannot be marketed outside the pharmacy. The law also lays down the conditions to be met by specialised retailers. The text of the law was agreed at the first reading in the rapporteur with the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and their comments on the amendments received were also coordinated. Some of them, in particular those relating to the establishment and functioning of the Authority responsible for medicinal products in the form of a public agency, required further harmonisation of the text and the creation of a specific chapter on the public medicinal product agency. On the basis of the amendments of the SDS, New Slovenia, SLS and DeSUS, the Health Committee adopted amendments at its 10th meeting, on 18.1.2006, and on 19.1.2006, and taking into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, on the basis of which a new chapter on the establishment and regulation of a public agency for medicinal products and medical devices was supplemented. In addition to the amendment to the third paragraph of Article 2, new Articles 107a and 107f have been added which define for a public agency the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, the tasks already performed by the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for medicinal products and medical technical devices as a body in the composition of the Ministry of Health and the official control laboratory, and the resources for action, that is to say by pooling the resources of the authorities in the Ministry and the Institute for Pharmacy and for the Testing of Medicinal Products Ljubljana, and by joining the tasks of official control of medicinal products and, not least, the authorities, and the method of decision-making and reporting. The following provisions add a new 112.a Article, which sets a one-year period for the establishment of a public agency and arrangements for its establishment. In view of the comparable arrangements in most Member States of the European Union, the competence of all medicinal products agencies, including professional or inspection of medicinal products, is vested in them. We also follow this example in the Republic of Slovenia. Due to the systematic regulation of inspections within the state administration, it cannot be organised by a public agency as a public authority institution. It was therefore necessary to amend, as a consequence, all those provisions governing the powers and tasks of pharmaceutical inspectors. The amendments introduced pharmaceutical supervisors or pharmaceutical supervisors in such a way that only they exercise control over the implementation of the law. This includes the assessment, fulfilment of the conditions for carrying out the manufacturing and marketing activities as well as the functioning of pharmaceutical supervision as a criminal authority. As a result, harmonisation amendments will need to determine their competences, the conditions to be met and the method of appointment. In most European Union countries, pharmaceutical inspection is part of the drug authorities. Some other inspections differ in the fact that, in addition to the supervisory function, it also carries out regular checks, compliance with the conditions of manufacturers and drug dealers, enabling them to carry out the activities of economic operators of medicinal products and on the national market, on the markets of the Member States of the European Union and on third markets. Slovenia is one of the countries which, after their independence, had to build a drug regulation, including a pharmaceutical inspection, virtually from scratch. In view of the developments in regulation in the European Union, it still has a small number of inspectors and a small agency and has a public pharmacy. Only this one has free and qualified human resources which, by merging, could cover deficiencies in inspection, regulation of medicinal products, authorisation of medicinal products and other tasks. The establishment of a public agency is supported by both institutions, it also supports the domestic and foreign pharmaceuticals industry, while the European Commission, which sent inspectors to us in October 2005, found that our inspection is inequitable to others in the European Union. This may have direct consequences for the export of medicinal products manufactured in Slovenia. In the European Union, medicines are one of the most regulated areas and the model of the regulatory network is mainly based on the fact that factories in their territory are controlled by the country concerned. If it does not meet the standards, this is not only its problem, but the problem of the entire European Union, which it solves in accordance with the common and not necessarily national interest. When the European Union concludes trade agreements on mutual recognition, the structures of control over the production of products of all Member States must meet the standards adopted in the European Union. The current inequivalency of the Slovenian pharmaceutical inspectorate may thus jeopardise the signing of such an agreement by the European Union with Canada. The Agency has been inspected with four structured posts only since 2004 when it was established. Two cities are still unoccupied, despite the six tenders, which have come together without success. This type of work, including industry has control and control, is so much better valued in industry that we have not yet succeeded in the role of inspectors in the state administration with appropriate experience, state exams and other qualifications. Following the European Union's findings, i.e. their Phare inspectors, and taking into account new tasks such as the role of the criminal authority and the supervision of the blood supply, we need at least eight inspectors in the Republic of Slovenia and at least four professional technical workers. Tenders and other preparations for the recruitment of structured jobs are under way. An elaboratory on the establishment of a public agency is also being prepared to address this problem quickly through a limited merger. Let me end by showing the expected gains that the public agency is supposed to add to the system. Most of the Member States of the European Union have combined the function of the Authority responsible for medicinal products with the function of an official control laboratory. The merger of the two institutions will enable the organisational form of the body responsible for medicinal products to function optimally in the system as its important functional unit and ensure the necessary expertise, flexibility and efficiency. The Agency will further allow for the comparability of the Authority responsible for medicinal products with other European authorities and ensure its optimal cooperation with them, allowing for the competitiveness of the Authority responsible for medicinal products in the European area, which is also part of the European pharmaceutical legislative model, will address the shortage and structure of personnel at the current Slovenian Medicines and Medical Devices Agency, which acts as a body within the Ministry of Health with additional pharmaceutical experts from the Institute for Pharmacy and for the Testing of Medicines in Ljubljana, thereby strengthening the current agency and thus protecting public health. The Agency will simplify all procedures related to the acquisition and maintenance of a marketing authorisation for medicinal products, which is now taking place in cooperation between the two institutions and are more time-consuming and organisationally demanding, which directly affects access to medicines. Last but not least, it will solve the problem of reducing the volume and the related inability to maintain the current number of highly qualified personnel, more than half of whom I have university education, at the Institute of Pharmacy and to test the medicines of Ljubljana. Ladies and gentlemen, after this presentation, we are counting on support for amendments to the drug law, which will certainly improve the quality of supply of medicines and thus the entire health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you very much for further explanation. As it is said, the draft law also treated the Health Committee as a working mother. I invite the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Germić, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary, Director, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 10th regular meeting on 18.1.2006 and following the meeting on 19.1.2006, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Health considered the draft law on medicines as a working body, and the second consideration submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. On 24.11.2005, on the basis of Article 122(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a group of Members submitted a request for a general discussion. The general debate was held at the 12th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Following the final hearing, the National Assembly adopted the conclusion that the draft law on medicinal products, the first reading, was suitable for further consideration and was allocated to the mother's working body for second reading. In addition to the text of the draft law for consideration at the meeting, the members of the Committee received the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, a letter from the Association of Producers of the medicinal products of Slovenia, the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, a material proposal from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, comments from the company at the heart of the operatives, the Ombudsman of the patient's rights and association of renal patients, and an amendment from the Slovenian Pharmaceutical Society. Representatives of the Ministry of Health, agencies of the Republic of Slovenia for medicines and medical devices, the State Council, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, the Pharmacy Chambers of Slovenia, the Society at the heart of the operated, veterinary faculties and the Forum of Representatives of Producers of Medicinal Products. The Committee took note of the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined that proposal from the perspective of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, and from a legislative and technical point of view submitted its comments on 1, 2, 6, 10, 16, 32, 38, 39, 46, 53, 62, 67, 68, 70, 74, 75, 79, 81, 82, 87, 88, 90, 91, 93, 94, 96, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 107, 108, 111, 113 and 116 of the proposal. The Committee took note of the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, which was also presented orally by the representative of the Commission. On behalf of the proposer, Mr Andrej Bručan, Minister of Health, presented the introductory explanation of the draft law. He stressed that the basic and most important reason for the adoption of the proposed law is the implementation of new or amended EU legislation on medicines. Slovenia must transpose that legislation into its legal order, while also implementing certain systemic solutions that increase the availability of medicines at national level. The basic objective of the proposed law is therefore to harmonise Slovenian legislation with the adopted Directives, while the proposed law establishes the conditions for achieving those objectives. The bill contains 117 articles, which are set out in 14 chapters, which regulate the scope of transport and the price of medicines, the availability of medicines, the system of interchangeability of medicinal products and the system of comparable medicinal products, requirements for the professional competence of those working in the field of medicinal products, the sale of medicines without prescription in specialised shops, the marketing of medicinal products for retail use and so on. Amendments to the proposed law were tabled within a time limit for the following candidates: LDS members, SD members' groups, SDS members' groups, NSIs, SLS and DeSUS, NSi, SLS and DeSUS members, Milan Petk MEPs, Aloise Sok and DeSUS members. In the discussion, the members of the Committee devoted the most time and attention to the additions to Article 16 of the bill governing the system of classification of medicinal products and interchangeable medicinal products. The broad and controversial debate highlighted the fact that the proposal, through the introduction of a system of cross-comparable medicinal products, would have significant consequences for patients; the following article, which introduces the public agency as a stand-alone body, and the 79th article of the bill regulating retail transport. Since the draft law introduces the public agency, the new articles added were specifically explained in the debate by the proponents. The Committee adopted the amendments of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS MPs, the amendments of Ambassador Aloise Sok for the new 105th Article. The Committee has also drawn up its amendments to Article 1 to Article 10, Article 16, Article 67, Article 79, Article 82, Article 91 for a new Chapter 12a for a new 100a, including Article 107f, Article 112a and Article 116. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. By including the amendments tabled today, you have a proposal for a text of the law before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u142	Thank you, too. During this time, Minister Bručan joined us. Welcome! We're moving on to the session. Since the meeting held its first reading of the bill at its 12th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups, so we are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendment of 30.1.2006. I open the debate on Article 16. We have two amendments, namely the LDS Group and the DeSUS Group of Members, which are the same content. I'll read the list, but that doesn't mean you can't check in later. I have the following persons on my list: Continuum, mag. Tremendous, Mr. Kumer, mag. Žnidaršič, Zalokar Orazem, Mr. Germić, Mr. Barovic, Mrs. Žgajner Tavš, mag. Clavora and Mrs. Dobrajc. And that we don't waste time, I give Mr. Contic my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In this article, which is one of the two most important articles, the debate on the working body, i.e. the Health Committee, has led the debate in our parliamentary group, thus leading to the end of the amendment, somehow removing these comparable medicines as set out in this Article. The conclusion of the debate led to an amendment which preserved this and defined the procedures a little more precisely. Regrettably, the amendment proposed by the LDS House of Members did not receive the necessary majority and was reintroduced to the meeting at the second hearing in the National Assembly. We have held a very broad, broad debate on this Article in the Social Democrats' Group of Members and have decided that such an article, as enshrined in this Act, is not acceptable to our Group of Members. We were also preparing an amendment to be tabled for second reading, that is, today at the National Assembly. However, as we agree with the amendment tabled by the LDS House of Members, we have not tabled this amendment with a similar content in the procedure, but we support the amendment tabled by the opposition LDS. As I said, we are convinced that, in addition to replacement drugs, the introduction of comparators further improves the patient's potential for quality recovery or quality of life. In our opinion, this means that patients will receive medicines, regardless of the effectiveness of this medicine, but especially according to the price of this medicine or similar medicine. This also shows all the discussions of the Ministry's representatives, who say that in this way we will limit price increases or spending on drug purchases, uncontrolled growth they call it. One more time. We think the patient should receive the most effective medicine and not the cheapest. Health care isn't an area where we'd be saving too much. It is already right to introduce additional austerity measures, but it is wrong to sharpen where people are most sensitive. We are also reminded of all the letters we receive from patients. Now we have also installed in this article that doctors will be the ones to decide. Of course, they will be in a very uncomfortable situation, they know what is best for the patient, but they will be limited to the cost of these medicines and will have to choose between the price and the quality of the medicine. As a representative of a heart company already operating at a board meeting said, about 400,500 tolars have already been added to the replacement medicinal products, and now only about 6,000 tolars have been paid for the reduction of cholesterol under the new system for comparable medicinal products. This means that those patients who are not more wealthy will have to decide on medicines that are available to them, which means that treatment will become dependent on the individual patient’s property status. We do not agree with this in the Social Democrats Group of Members, and we will support the LDS amendment, and this also means that if this remains in law, we will seriously consider supporting the law as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will support the amendment proposed by the Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, and if this amendment is not adopted, I will not support the law. How do I base that? The additional explanation by the Secretary of State highlighted, in particular, with comparable and interchangeable medicines, the applicant's promise of savings. It's a little cynical to bet on health being the richest. It is, however, that arbitration is incorporated in this Article despite the corrections. If it is the doctor who prescribes the medicines, even though the list of comparable medicines is determined by the minister, the doctor is instructed or allowed to decide which medicine he will prescribe. This is where the problem starts for me. I'm not the only one who got a letter from affected groups of chronic patients. That's what other people will be talking about. But the group of those concerned by this article is 1/3 nationals and citizens of Slovenia. I'm calling on behalf of the kids. Social Democrats have always advocated free medicines for children. Mothers and fathers are already faced with the need to pay for medicinal products in the case of interchangeable medicinal products. For comparators, especially antibiotics, this is a reopened option. According to the European Social Charter, the same possibility of accessibility is a fundamental principle and is classified as a fundamental human right. Now allow me to alert another group of medicines among the comparators. And I am sorry that Mr Minister is not here, so I am asking the Secretary of State a question. What did the co-ordinator or co-ordinator think of this law, and in particular of this article, as regards equal opportunities for women and men in the Ministry? In fact, last year we adopted a resolution on a national programme for equal opportunities between women and men. We have also written down a number of things about the application of gender mainstreaming, with domestic legal obligations and the international obligations of Slovenia implying that certain principles and objectives must be taken into account when adopting policies and implementing policies in specific areas. And in the fourth chapter of this resolution, where discussions on the purpose and objectives of the national programme, I read, at point 9, quality health care adapted to the needs of women and men, and for the tenth time, improving reproductive health for women and men. And that's what my comments are about, because the list of comparable drugs is also about contraception. And what's in the national program. The objectives and actions of the national programme are defined as guidelines for ministries and other government authorities to include these measures in the planning and implementation of their sectoral policies and programmes. And keep going. In order to implement the integration of the principle of gender equality, it is legally binding on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and ministries, etc. It is important for ministries themselves to be responsible for integrating the gender perspective into their areas of work in order to succeed in integrating the principle of gender equality. It could also be found in this introductory chapter of the resolution that could justify the question that I had previously addressed to the Minister or the Secretary of State. In the specific chapter, where measures and indicators are set out, in the section on health, in the second subsection, the protection of reproductive health for women and men, as the second special objective, it is specifically stated: "Increasing accessibility to various forms of contraception and the choice of services during pregnancy, childbirth and postpartum periods." I don't want anyone to tell me that I was quoting just what I needed or loved right now. And then there is the action, "the development of guidelines and the introduction of measures to increase accessibility to acceptable and free contraception", and then the continuation of what is going on. And in indicators, "to place different forms of contraception on a free list of medicines and the number of users and users by type of contraception". Everything in these documents therefore says that contraception should be generally available and free of charge. Following the measures set out in Article 16 of the Law, this is not so settled and, of course, my conduct in this law depends on the adoption of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u146	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Kumer's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I support the amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy, which in some way appeals to the motioners of this amendment to listen to this amendment. I have before me a letter from the company at the heart of the operating Slovenia, the Union of Diabetes Associations, the Union of Sugar Patients Associations and the Union of Osteoporosis Associations of Slovenia, and I believe them because users or commentants are Article 16 of this Act. And I don't believe the creators or innovators of this proposal. I believe that this article can really affect a third of the Slovenian population, more than 600,000 Slovenian chronic patients, which is in some ways unacceptable. The introduction of these cross-comparable medicinal products, as they have written, can indeed have worse consequences in the long term than it is now, as they can actually increase, not least, the cost of medical bills. Savings and savings in this area cannot and must not be in the national interest and are still subject to valuable pluralism as the basis of quality of life. Therefore, in some ways I would suggest to the applicants, even though they are tourists and from their health care fields, that they read in the last December issue of the New magazine the text of Peter Schavber entitled Value pluralism, in order to obtain at least a little basis, what the quality of human life means, based on valuable plural judgments. Once again, I propose to the proposers to listen to this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mag. There's no gendarmes. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. I am pleased that today, I hope, we will have sufficient responsibility to discuss this extremely important article of article 16, although I am sorry that there are so few of us in the Chamber and that, in fact, there is no minister, especially given that it has been publicly announced that, in relation to this article, if adopted in the form currently stated, 600,000 Slovenian patients, or representatives, who have already been appointed by a colleague of Kumer, gathered in these societies, have announced a referendum. In short, we are talking about the fact that if we do not change this article, the referendum is announced and is a fact. I am sure that these patients, given their exceptional importance, will also have no problem collecting the required number of signatures and, in my opinion, getting a referendum. I think it would make sense to take a very responsible approach to this, especially because the various distortions that we have received so far with the amendments to this Article do not lead to a result. However, I think it is necessary to say in this regard that what really disturbs and causes fear is the secret of preparation. We have been used to saving measures in Slovenia so far, so that at least professional associations could talk about it. While this article is being prepared, it is my opinion and I hope to say, in complete secrecy. Despite the Ministry's reply that this has been published in the Official Journals and other documents, it seems to me that this excuse is not true. Such a matter should be discussed and the professional public should be included. Last but not least, the representatives of the doctors who joined the Medical Chamber made it clear on the Committee that they had not been informed, neither had the patients nor the public. The purpose, I believe, was to bring an extremely important matter through the side door. And if this is a pattern whereby the Minister of Health intends to introduce austerity measures into Slovenia, then I think we can tell him from Parliament that he will receive a negative response to all such moves. We are in the LDS House for austerity measures and we are aware of the problems, but we would like to speak publicly about this to include the profession. Finally, after the meeting of the Committee, we were able to read the extremely negative position of Dr. Pegan’s Chairman of the Medical Chamber, who pointed out that the doctor would no longer be able to prescribe or pay for the chronic patient. And, of course, he also made it clear and loudly that he was not involved. It is true, however, that we were able to listen to Dr. Poredoš's national television that night, but he knew very much about the matter as chairman of the Commission in the Health Insurance Office, the Committee on Medicines, which means that it has proved to be accurate those assumptions that say that, in fact, the sub-laws are already ready, that the therapeutic groups have already been formed, and that, above all, it has been done by the institution that intends to save the most, that this matter will be brought to fruition as quickly as possible. Even so, Dr. Poredoš was somewhat misinformed to think that the future president of this commission would be, because the marriage was open and he was talking about a legal person to be appointed minister. Of course, he made sure of that in the evening. In this way, the Ministry of Health will not be able to implement austerity measures in Slovenia, according to my assessment. In the explanation is even omitted, we still have the title of the chapter only: Intermediate interchangeable drugs, and then somewhere in one third paragraph there are two paragraphs talking about such important matter as comparator drugs. The financial implications of these financial consequences are also not mentioned anywhere. While we have heard on the Committee that such financial effects should be around 200 million per year, my assessment is that these figures are too low and that the financial effects expected mainly by the insurance undertaking and the savings will be significantly higher. Of course, I also find it incorrect to compare the story of interchangeable and comparable medicines and effects. We held a long debate on interchangeable medicines in Slovenia. We came up with a consensus, and we knew there would be effects. And the effects are, but these effects should be said to be, in fact, medicines with the same substances, the same molecular structure, these are medicines where we're talking about originals and generics. Of course, in the case of pressure, when we have determined interchangeable drugs, the financial effects of the reduction have in fact affected the smaller profits of the pharmaceutical industry. It was that when the replacement drugs were determined, prices of the original drugs also decreased, or there was quite a lot of order in this area, and the savings seemed to be high. For comparable medicines, where it is only related medicines that are supposed to treat a particular disease, but which may have a completely different molecular structure and completely different effects on each other, in the context of the individual patient, I will say, the overall health condition, and the pressure will be felt on the patient's pockets. It will not be a school for pressure on the pharmaceutical industry, but it will be the savings that are to be made in the health insurance institution directly collected from people's pockets. I think we have on the pharmaceutical industry segment, the industry that achieves the highest profits and is the most prosperous, that we still have a lot of open space, as the ministry still has a lot in view of yesterday's parliamentary issues on the procurement segment, on the rational consumption segment and the use of funds for the purchase of equipment, etc. In fact, we are faced with some affairs and data every day that still say that we have not made all the optimal moves in this area. After this, it seems to me that it is an extremely irresponsible act, which will not lead to any other than extremely distrustful Slovenian public and Slovenian patients to the Minister's further actions, to bring about such a secret, in fact as a secret operation in the drug law. I think you should look for consensus and allies to save. With such moves he creates exclusively opponents, who we will certainly not welcome, but at least not approve, because in fact they are medicines that will be classified and will be comparable drugs, they are in fact medicines for the most common diseases that concern, as has already been said, a third of the Slovenian population. And, of course, it is right that we may mention them more. These are anti-rheuma medicines, anti-angina pectoris, anti-hypertensive, anti-cholesterol medicines, then all contraceptives, then some classes of antibiotics, painkillers, anti-allergics, osteoporosis and so on. It is the most common diseases, where, and according to our assessment, where it will certainly also be with the corrections that the coalition then at a board meeting, in the shame of these actions, will begin to prepare, even with these amendments, the effects will not be achieved, as the representatives of the societies have already warned that doctors do not have time to deal with these cashiers in prescriptions where they should explicitly mark "do not substitute". And they're not doing that right now. These are the warnings of those who face it daily. For this reason, of course, I hope that we will be able to make sufficient sense, and together this Article 16 actually delete and open the debate and include the expertise and involve the public and consensually take austerity measures, but not so subtlely, disguised that even in Parliament we have had a public hearing, if you remember or the first reading in terms of the examination of the law, then no one has actually explicitly pointed out the effects of this article, because it was so hidden that it was really difficult to determine what they actually meant by the bill-maker.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u150	Thank you very much. On the list, Mr. Germich has the word and no one else. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When I listened to the opening presentation today as a statement by the Secretary of State, I expected, of course, that at this point, of course, it would linger significantly longer than it actually is. He then devoted most of his time to a public agency, which is also important, and I think that this issue has jumped very, very quickly. In particular, from this point of view, because it was on the Health Committee by the public concerned, it is those who feel that this measure could be the most affected, this is a group of chronic patients who are being assessed for the value of around 600 000. Surely, however, all citizens and citizens of Slovenia could be in this group, as it was obvious that this interested public was not attracted to co-forming at the time of the drafting of this law. And I don't know if the ministry has received these letters that we receive from a wide variety of groups to give clear and concrete answers today, what was the idea of this being introduced, and what would be the consequences. The answer that the minister was able to hear is, "What is it now that the law has been on the Internet since August?" This also points to the attitude of this government towards communication with anyone who might be interested in a particular area. And since I am the leader of this healthcare committee, I do not agree in this way, and I hope that the way it was done in this law will be the last. Health rights are rights for which this government also advocates that the rights of each of us are. It has already been pointed out that this content was hidden in an article which did not give any indication of this content in the title. So there was talk of interchangeability, and in the third or fourth indent, comparability is introduced as a completely new concept with a completely new content. Of course, the reasoning behind this is also very modest. So to Article 16, we can see that the proposaler is very cheap, in fact, in other words simply summarises this, but does not carry out any analysis of how positive they are and perhaps what negative effects there will be for the adoption of such a provision. Of course, it is very important to know that every day we are faced with pressure on medical bills and that we need to be very reasonable when we rationalize the costs of this medical treasury. Yesterday we also asked the question of how certain funds and additional funds are intended to reduce waiting lines. We also understand that, on a single financial outflow in 2005, if we want to keep this pace, new resources will have to be found, but of course we do not want to find these resources in a way that, on the other hand, we will "cut" waiting types, under the terms, because on the other hand, we will do exactly the opposite, so that we will extend these waiting types with new patients due to the consequences that we have imposed uncritically. We are reminded of this by all these letters from different associations, associations of different groups of patients, because interchangeability where they replace the same substance at the molecular level and come into the therapeutic groups. Here comes a series of questions about the role the doctor will play and the role the patient will play. Of course, the letter from the Medical Chamber here speaks about this, as well as the amendment that we have adopted on the Committee and has the content that it is necessary to take into account the principles that the availability of individual medicinal products from a group of comparable medicinal products is decided by the person responsible for prescribing medicinal products. How do I understand this proposal from the medical board? In particular, the protection of doctors who can by introducing such methods, i.e. the introduction of therapeutic groups, is subject to pressure from manufacturers of these medicines to favour certain groups, as this will, of course, indirectly ensure the transport of the medicinal product by a particular manufacturer. On the other hand, it is of course the interest of patients who want equal treatment. The question is, of course, whether such an equal treatment will be possible. Therefore, in our view, it is certainly not possible to assess this measure only from the point of view of the current cost reduction, since the consequences of such a provision at this point have not been justified by any argument, which is asked from various sides, there is no clear definition. I am pleased that the Democratic Party of the Retired has also followed our amendment somehow on the Committee and has also tabled it under Article 16, because I think that this group or group of older people is the group that is most powerfully represented in the group of chronic patients. And I wish that this step could also be taken today in other parliamentary groups and that we will succeed, without saying completely today, it is not a measure that we could introduce, but rather to take the time to answer all the questions that are being asked here. And later, when we have clear answers to all the negative things that this can bring to patients, on the other hand, to doctors so that they can take such measures gradually. Of course, that is why we ask the other parliamentary groups to support this amendment, which in this part removes the comparability of the medicines contained in this law, because we believe that there are many reasons for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u152	Thank you very much. It's Clavor's master. I'm sorry if I missed you earlier that you signed up for Mr. Germich, but it's impossible to keep an eye on the entire hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u153	Mr Vice-President, Minister-in-Charge, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! It has been mentioned that we represent elderly and chronic patients. Fortunately, there are no chronic patients in our parliamentary group and we have been reading and healthy. However, there is such a composition of this parliamentary group that we have to look somewhat differently at the whole matter and also say our position slightly differently. I don't care where this amendment came from, which side of the sent-off bench came from, but I listened to this amendment. I would not like to speak very politically, as I said last time, when we were on the committee's turn on the issue of removals of swabs and we tried to paint them, to paint them politically, not with the colors that are used professionally and which give an expert result. That is why I would like to say today that we have been very careful about what we will say. That's because it's a professional thing. Not only is it a profession, not just a letter, but it really is a large number of chronic patients in our country of Slovenia. It would be wrong to hurt such a large crowd in any way. I am aware and many, many doctors, who are very aware of their daily work, that they also need to be "split" as they say at home, and that it doesn't matter how money is spent. I don't think there's gonna be anything wrong with repeating that old idea that health care is also for the richest, and we're not the richest. We're rich, but we're not the richest. And if you listen to how other countries do it, then you know that others have problems with it. If I come from this, then I can also say that with my eyes open and my ears open, I listen to parliamentary questions as well as some debates in our Parliament, why are we spending so much on different areas? But let us stop in health care at the one that is most sensitive to our society, which is so sensitive that it can bring us severe problems. Although we have proposed a revision of the drug law, I am surprised that such a serious topic, covering more than 500,000 of our citizens, is being addressed and we are talking almost outside the empty hall. What would you say about some medication now, whether it's aspirin or it's one or the other? We'll take something and raise our hands. That is why I think I am reminding you that this matter is very, very responsible. When I received this letter, which you have already mentioned, from chronic patients, I noticed, in addition to their signature, that they were below, not on the one I got last, including the signatures of my colleagues' doctors. It is said that they too agreed that it would be wrong to do something wrong. I don't know if it's right to reach out to this particular crowd of chronic patients at this time and try to save them something. I don't know. Even professionally, I'll say, there have been so many words already said, sometimes too many professional ones, but I'm not going to let myself down now that we should be very careful about this. If we already have therapeutic groups that recognise the highest recognised price that the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and for all medicines that are more expensive to be paid, and if we can do this with interchangeable medicines, and this is a matter of profession, I also do not go into this, this is a matter of our pharmacology, this is a matter of our doctors of specialists from specific fields that we all master and who should do it in a responsible way, then I think it would be possible to do much in doing so. If you have to pay, then why replace it with comparable drugs? In fact, the first step is to destroy it with the second or the third. Is that necessary? I think we should think this through, if that's really necessary. I saw that much effort was made by the government or the Ministry of Health. Our comments, our amendments, also regarding the free market for medicines, so-called, in stores, were also accepted. But here I would only say a little caution to my fellow minister, because we may be able to accumulate problems that we do not need right now. I think that with the responsible conduct of medical professionals, by responsible conduct of all that I have just stated, there could be an appropriate result that would not increase the cost of health care. That's why I'm gonna say it like I did at the beginning. I'm in favour of the proposed amendment. We will support the amendment in our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u154	Thank you very much. It's Mr Barovic's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To those of us who are now here and who are talking and I believe that we are also very serious about and are talking about the amendment to Article 16, I would advise that consideration is needed and I think it is right for this amendment to be adopted. I very much distinguish between the words interchangeability and comparability. Substitute means the same to me. It means something to me. There is a fundamental difference between the same and the same. I have no doubt in my mind that there may already be areas where comparable drugs can be introduced. However, I believe that comparable medicines in most of the diseases of our time and in particular the diseases of people of different structures, whose diseases have different consequences, but also with regard to the rich country, including the emotionally rich and capable State of the Republic of Slovenia, appear to me to be inappropriate and possibly too quickly and can be insecurely saved in a manner of comparability, because the difference is essential. I believe it's very important. I'd like to paint it metaphorically with a weapon. In the Vietnam War, M-16 and AK were very comparable weapons, with the same capabilities, but the rifles were not interchangeable, because the ammunition of one soldier, for example, American, did not go to the AK and the result was that he was dead, although the weapon was comparable. A bit of a cruel case, but I think it is right that the drug law would be adopted, but sometimes there is only a need for debate and a consensus between all of us, and so success on the one hand and on the other. I'll back the amendment myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that. I, Mr President, will in fact refer to your words, which you gave at the time of the presentation or in the debate on this amendment. You said there was an important crowd, a crowd of almost 600,000 people, in a particular case. I will say that it is not only the multitude that is important, but it must be important for this country, even for the minister, for each individual. The fact is that Slovenian health care does not belong to the highest quality of services. And with such proposals as is enshrined in Article 16 of the Government's proposal for a law that is particularly harmful to people, we are only moving away from this summit. I will say that it is actually unacceptable for the government to try to save or save on behalf of people's health. Allow me to point out two cases, which are more than proof that a different approach is needed in the field of Slovenian health. Today, in the Republic of Slovenia, it happens that a patient with an official diagnosis obtained after years and years of running and opening the doors of various specialists, health professionals, does not actually receive a recognised treatment in the world, because in the Republic of Slovenia the system is still not effective or does not have a proper interdisciplinary approach. And allow me another case. It happens that parents of a child with a worse form of autism - and these in the Republic of Slovenia increasingly - have to send their child at their own expense for testing or laboratory investigations in the United States because they do not do these research in Slovenia. Based on the results obtained and the explanations given, treatment and therapy for such a child should be decided or determined. But allow me, in the Republic of Slovenia today there is no doctor who can read the test. And the parents are repositioned before they look for their own costs abroad for a doctor who can explain and translate the test. But even when parents provide a translation of the test in Slovenia, unfortunately there is no system or way they can help such a child. According to the local word, the child falls out of the medical system or treatment system. And allow another explanation in this case. These are treated as specially prescribed diets and medicines. And I believe that some of these cases have been dealt with in the framework of the parliamentary group, that this is a very large financial contribution to parents every month, especially in the case of the fact that the mothers of such children usually leave their jobs so that they can date or care for a sick child. Such a child should not even eat a piece of bread because his condition could deteriorate significantly, but he falls, as I have already said, past the Slovenian health system. And now, it seems that if the amendment is not adopted, which at least partially provides protection beyond this system, chronic patients who are still in a controlled state will be eliminated because they are under an excessive burden on the country. I will certainly be the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, an identical amendment of course has also been tabled in DeSUS, supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u158	Thank you very much. At the end of the list, I have only Mrs. Dobrajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u159	Fellow Members, fellow Members, Chairman! All I'm going to talk about is the dilemmas that overwhelm me in my comparability. This is what drug comparability is all about. The intercomparability of medicinal products is based on the therapeutic pharmacological properties of the medicinal products. One important basis for this is the anatomical therapeutic chemical classification of medicinal products. This is the ATC classification of the World Health Organisation. This medicinal product is classified according to the organ or system to which the medicinal product is active and according to its chemical, pharmacological and therapeutic properties. Medicinal products that are comparable have the same therapeutic indication, comparable action on a particular body or system and may be chemically related. All countries that, because of the need to provide medicines to all groups of patients, from chronic patients to the most difficult patients, and because of the fact that the pharmaceutical industry is developing and is always bringing new medicines to the market, have joined the system of drug comparability. The authorised organisation to do so shall have its seat in Geneva. However, the countries which have introduced and implemented the system of cross-comparability of medicinal products and are based on the experience of Scandinavian countries with an extremely high level of social security according to tradition are: the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, Lithuania, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Austria. This is essentially a new and tested effective approach, which maintains the effective and quality supply of medicines at the burden of public resources, while allowing and not reducing the professional independence of doctors. At the same time, the system of comparability of ATC and the International Health Organisation medicines also puts pressure on the very pervasive and financially profitable pharmaceutical industry, which comes to market with ever-increasing new and new medicines. The introduction of the comparability introduced by the countries already quoted was mainly aimed at ensuring a high level of health insurance rights. Therefore, I reiterate that the problem is not just two, three groups of patients, but all patients. Recently there was a lot of talk about so-called new biological drugs. I am sure that the system of introducing the comparability of medicinal products would also open up the possibility of facilitating the purchase of biological medicinal products for a completely different group of patients, which would include patients falling under the system of comparability of medicinal products. However, I believe that everyone is equally uncomfortable and that we are all full of dilemmas when we have to decide on the introduction of this system.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you very much. In the meantime, two others have applied, Mrs Shirca and Mr Potrč. Please, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Colleague Dobrajcheva has problems with decision-making or defining the solution, and I think that you have embarked on an interpretation of comparability somewhat by not knowing the intent of this law. One is if a particular medicine replaces or replaces or is comparable when a medicine replaces another medicine because it is transferred to an organism due to allergies, contraindications or effects, and then it is possible to understand your reading in terms of similar identical medicines, but on a certain segment of not so active medicines. But the intention of this marriage is to say something else. And if you have listened to many who are alerting to this intention, then you can only agree with me that it is an effect that binds to money, not to the effects of the medicine itself. And in this context, I say, Mr. Minister, this is what you do. I'm saying you're writing a black book on health, health. White went to the trash because it was too social and fair and now you don't write it, you live it, you work it, and you actually do it without any substantial changes to the law. You're interfering with some systems that were socially oriented and that were as fair as they were, and now, on behalf of the fact that we should be saving because the Slovenians are too wasteful and because we're using 66 billion medicines, you're looking for some effects that you don't have any answers to. At least that's how you said on the board that it wasn't such a big savings in this case. It's not that big, but it's a big threat, and it's not just all those, those groups, including those experts, those doctors who are turning to us, but the last chance to prevent this foolish act. These are effects that can be significantly more dangerous than you think and count in money. In view of the introduction of comparable medicinal products, it can also mean something other than saving. It can also mean a new load. New burdens due to the possibility of increasing the cost of medical bills, as diseases may also be increased due to the non-professional or different operation and use of medicines. In short, it is possible to absorb rising costs in health care at other levels. Minister, you didn't go after them. Some of them are being renewed, repeated, or even more forcefully pushed into them when you do not pay for those costs that actually mean a large part of the burden in health care. But what do you do with these effects? You direct solutions to the path that only the rich can be sick, the poor should be avoided. Because if they don't have enough to pay, they won't be able to get treatment, because they won't be able to afford enough to pay for drugs as the new system does. I'm against him. I think that part of the solution and correction is with the amendment, although it would be better not to make such offers at all, especially because they are agreed with not only 1/3 of the population of Slovenians, but potentially significantly more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Dobrajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u163	Thank you for saying I was already appointed. I was talking about my dilemmas about how to provide all the sick with a health insurance opportunity to heal. And the dilemmas, or the introduction of the comparability of medicinal products, make it possible. And just thinking about the thought that I once read somewhere, it seems very smart and real to me. [[that's what a person said.]] He doesn't know a lucky man who's mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u164	Thank you. And Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u165	Thank you very much. At the very least, what I would like to stress on this very important issue is how we have come to a serious debate on the question of comparable medicines. I looked at the proposal for a law sent by the government to Parliament and, among the reasons for the adoption of the law and the objectives to be achieved by amending the law, I did not find such importance to this issue at all. On the contrary, I have found no serious word that would alert Members and Members, as well as the general public, to this problem. When I looked at the explanation, which is extremely modest - the same is true for the assessment of the reasons and for the purposes of the law - article 16, which also has the title "Only interchangeable drugs", is said to be comparable in the title, I found the following explanation: "The Member gives the definition of interchangeable and comparable medicines and the factors to be taken into account in the decision to replace and compare them. The Article provides a basis for the operation and development of a system of reference prices for medicinal products." Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary, that's all. At the same time, we receive Members and Members - as we all have already said - and I will also repeat - from many groups of citizens organised to warn them that they are afraid that they are worried about what this article will mean for them. These groups of patients have been reported. I believe that there are at least two more groups that benefit from a few more medicines because of their biological properties than average healthy people. These are children who have been mentioned, they are also older people, who can generally be called pensioners, who regularly take some of the kinds or more of medicines. To believe that this is about, say, 500 thousand, 600 thousand, if we round it, we can even half the population, and that savings, as you said, are only 200 million, are hard to believe, because if we just divide it by 500 thousand, it's 400 tolls per person. But all the warnings are about a thousand and a few thousand tolars in one drug, and it can be a month. It may be excessive, but fear is such. And in this fact, we have not received, at least not so far, at the meeting of the National Assembly - I hope, Mr Minister, that we will still be, no truly soundly verified 100% argument that there can be no consequences to which they are warned and which almost half of Slovenian citizens and citizens fear. As long as there is no such 100% argument, then I think it would be wise, regardless of the big words that we use, that these decisions are not taken, because without them the law will achieve its fundamental meaning and there is still room for dispersion. I think it would be irresponsible to make such decisions on a thousand open questions, but I do not want to highlight this issue first, but I have warned us that all those who write these letters have warned us not only not to take the proposed solutions concerning comparable medicines but to take advantage of the last option they have left behind, this is a legislative referendum. Not to be taken as a threat, not to be taken as a warning, not to be taken as a necessity, only when it is really the interest of so many citizens and citizens is right until and if we do not convince them that they are wrong, that they have in particular an unjustified fear that we do not take such a decision. Mr Minister, I look forward to a very sound explanation which can convince us, but, by your statement, give, honourable Members and Members, support the amendments tabled by the two groups of Members and delete the provisions, I think that the third and fourth paragraphs of Article 16 of the Act are deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Also Master Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u167	Rapporteur number 105, 29 November 2004, explanation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 16, which introduces very serious changes to the health system. If they are given the definition of interchangeable and comparable medicinal products and the factors to be taken into account in the decision to replace and compare each other. The article provides a basis for the operation and development of the product reference price system. Mr Minister, I accept everything, however, that you are trying to deceive, or at least not to tell the Slovenian public before chronic patients are aware of it, but it is not acceptable to say so. Yesterday, I asked one other minister what he had done about one other matter when it was necessary to protect the public interest, but, of course, that minister said yesterday that everything was fine and then, of course, I asked him why we had a four-day special session for the Mutual. Mr. Minister, I ask you, how do you understand this system? How do you understand this system? If the amendment is not adopted, chronic patients will be able to obtain a medicinal product in accordance with the principle of equality, which will provide them with the same level of safety as before. I believe that it is extremely difficult for a health insurance company to resist the pressure of the lobby and therefore, in the knowledgeable development of medicine, the costs are increasing. However, Minister, everywhere in the world, the pressures on health care are high on the insurance company. You just decided to put this pressure on the patients now. That's what you say in your marriage. I don't have a problem with that, of course, and you have to say it exactly. You must tell those who write us letters that 600,000 Slovenian chronic patients will now be affected. And that in patients with multiple medications, some should take 5.10, a few 10,000 tolars will have to be added. I asked Mr Bajuk yesterday, and Mr Bajuk well remembers how in a system that is not based on solidarity a decision for this or that operation, for that or that dental prosthesis. The system, in narration, "reference" prices, first, second, third offers determine whether you are ultimately entitled to an individual intervention, which you are now introducing for the eligibility of a particular medicinal product. You say, no problem, have, in saying, "to date a cure", you have to pay for it. I would therefore expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to support the proposed amendments that we have tabled and that you will be Members of the ruling coalition if you are committed to maintaining a European comparable health system in the Slovenian health system, a system based on solidarity rather than on the profit line, so that you will support these amendments, of course. As Mr Janša spoke a few months ago, he said that, of course, Slovenia is a referendum state and therefore it is very difficult to reach some political consensus. What they're writing to us in the National Assembly is that people who are out of politics don't see any other way than cutting down after the referendum as a method if we don't find enough brains here. And since you have written only what you wrote down on page 54 of Rapporteur 105, 29 November 2005, without explaining the daily consequences for 100,000 Slovenes and Slovenians, please consider the proposed amendments and support the amendments and thus prevent us from having a referendum on the basic question in Slovenia: Do we still have solidarity in the healthcare system, or no more? Of course, we can go to another society where solidarity in health is not the basis, but I do not recall any political party in the ruling coalition proposing this in the pre-election period. And I don't remember, at least I don't remember, as some coalition party representatives said they'd have something like this in the coalition contract. This is an important change in the social situation of 100,000 Slovenians and Slovenes, and I therefore believe that you did not get a mandate a year and a few months ago. We, as the opposition here, propose amendments in order not to do more nonsense than they do in the area of social governance, especially in the health treasury. In doing so, we would expect the definitions in the legislation to first reflect the facts, but not to say that they are pure, I would say, the usual thing of interchange and comparison. No, it's a lot more. It's about price ceilings, it's about ceilinging, it's called, "the cost of an individual," and that's no longer the basis of the health insurance system that we inherited according to good European principles, which I hope we'll keep for a long time, even if the ministers we have, or the government we don't want to do now. I will support the amendments myself, support the law if the amendments are accepted. Otherwise, I will oppose this with all my might, even though there will be another referendum to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Since there are no more applicants, I'd like to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u169	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you so much for saying that. I wouldn't go down to the level of debate about who's talking and who's doing stupid things, because I don't think this is the right place. I would like to say that we have approached this law for two reasons. Firstly, because the EU requires us to amend legislation in this area within a certain period of time. Secondly, because the health situation in Slovenia also dictates to us in the local area. The marriage was in preparation last year. He was in the debate and I think that this debate, which we experienced in the second half of last year, showed some additional options for dealing with problems that we have also taken into account. I must say that for a very long time there has been no debate on this article, which we are talking about today, about comparable medicines; this came after a model was published in one of the magazines, what these comparable medicines should look like in practice. Of course, there was a lot of writing based on some thoughts, but no facts. In this regard, I would like to say that this law, this article of the law which speaks of the comparability of medicines, provides only a basis so that in the future we can prepare a model that is acceptable to all, including those who may be opposed to this way today. I would like to say that during this time, during the past fourteen days, we have had the support of this article, also by the Committee on Medicinal Products, that this support is also in the insurance company itself, that is clear that there is no support, as we would expect, for some pharmaceutical companies. I think it is precisely what we are talking about, this article that we have proposed here, that article that will later enable the valuation of medicines and at the same time prevent certain imports of medicines that are too fast and which are significantly more expensive than they could be. It is clear that it is necessary to listen to all many patients who need to use different types of medicines. However, this option is different, or I will say the comparability of medicines, in some form already exists today. Any doctor may write in a group of medicines that have the same effect, the same action, the medicine that he thinks is best. This is where we wanted to include part of the financial component in addition to this professional component. Indeed, it is necessary to know that we are in Slovenia after the use of medicines among the most wasteful in Europe and that something needs to be done in this area. I am sure that if we are to be a little less right to every news, to every facet of it, which, in the final stage, can also mean a greater right, as much as we are to that, then, of course, our move into the future, as well as adapting Europe, will be much more difficult than we think this moment will be. This article, which discusses the comparability of medicines, is a European article, contrary to what Commissioner Cwickl said earlier. Indeed, such comparable medicines are available in seven countries of the European Union, including rich and poor countries, and in any way those who want medical resources, especially drug consumption, should also use them. Today's discussion was largely by those who advocate opening this amendment to protect the rights of patients who are chronic patients, of course, but do not say anything about how to save another group of patients, the group that we cannot afford with expensive medicines with the means we have, and yet we have given 200 million dollars for treatment in the last year. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] outside of all plans, so we also wanted to achieve this area when using medicines and when prescribing medicines, and we still have plans in this direction. [[..]] So, of course, saving in one area can be a savings that will also bring funds to a group of patients who may not be able to receive the medicines they might receive immediately. Of course, here we should always talk about the profession and the profession is, in fact, if I am completely honest, in this area of comparable medicines is not entirely uniform. Most of the time, I, too as a doctor, of course, think that we have just those who would not be able to reduce the treatment options in this way, because within individual groups the drugs are as similar as we know them, and within groups they would also make groups that would be, let's say, if we just take the Beta-blo- example, because all of this is possible now for you people who don't know medicine, it's not so important, but it will be important to explain. Within these groups there are several groups and you in the implementation of this law would also arrange these individual subgroups to have this comparability within the subgroups, not the group itself. Well, there's a lot of options. With this, I just want to say once again that this article, this article, Article 16, does not talk about what this thing is going to look like, but just to give some technical opportunity in this direction. That is why, of course, the inclusion of the general public in the debate on this article, which has recently been so strong in the last 10 days, is also, in its own way, given that this is an important issue, one can understand, and I hope, of course, that the comparability of medicines and savings in the use of medicines in the future will be one of our basic tasks, not to the detriment of patients as you have spoken, not to the detriment of social harm, but to the real need to save in the field of medicines. We are among the most deplorable, not only in Europe, but also in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Master Squeakl, the replica, then Mr. Gulic checked in.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u171	Very short, Mr. Secretary. You are talking about the EU member and you are talking about the fact that the situation at home is forcing us to do so. That's what you said. For the first time, of course, it would be nice to explain these seven countries, because there will be a very interesting group of seven countries, as we will hear. And secondly, you made two claims. That we're the most wasteful of medicines in Europe, you said. Mr. Secretary, that's all right. Only you must then say what you just explained as the main basis of why you are introducing Article 16 and have a different kind of discussion about it. Policy on the structure of spending health insurance funds. About the health insurance network, about the type, if you want, of health service providers and so on, say that the response to the situation at home, which are of course known, is old and the population is getting older, and medicine is increasingly, in saying, "quality" and therefore offers more and more suitable medicines to respond to this authorization to you to get to what patient's right to receive, in saying, "what kind of medicine". I do not have a problem to open a discussion on the content of health insurance expenditure, but you are here on the basis that in Slovenia we have made the most wasteful drug demand that you get a mandate that considers 600 chronic patients to have bad consequences for them. In this way, the search for consensus for necessary changes in health care is not achieved. Then you have to open another matter, like a colleague of the former Minister of Health tried in the White Paper, and we know where the White Paper is, and how the White Book ended. Perhaps there is another discussion about the structure of resources or health-care expenditure, but we did not have it, at least I do not recall that, for example, when we discussed health insurance in 2004, for example, in this National Assembly. May I remind you, Mr Minister, Members of the ruling coalition have refused to discuss the 2004 Health Insurance Report in this National Assembly at the College of the President of the National Assembly. Now you say we have major health problems and we will solve them by giving you the authority in Article 16 of this Law. That's what's bothering this debate that we're having here. There is probably a lot to be arranged in health care, but when we discuss this, of course we can face different alternatives in all segments, not to intervene here in, if you want, rights, equal treatment of chronic patients.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that. Just a few words about who under this law would be the one who prescribed the medication. It's definitely not us, but it would be a doctor, just like before. There's no discussion about it, that's right. Now, if you understand this correctly, I'm happy if you don't, then it'll be harder. In fact, it actually writes, as it has been so far, it will be written by a doctor in the future. As far as the countries we talked about earlier, which have such a system, I will list the following: Great Britain, Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden and the Baltic States. All these countries have this system. Then you know well that in the world, the supplemental model for medicines is a general formula. Companies, including pharmaceutical companies, also want the formula. We have also pledged in the coalition treaty that we will not do so because it is a social move. I think it's right that we don't go into the pay system. However, we need to find another system that will be fairer and that will, of course, be able to save in this area. And I do not think that this article 16 would limit anything, not social, but, above all, increase the choice. And when, two years ago, I think, I have to say about the interchangeability of medicines, the concerns of opponents of substitution were exactly the same as yours today when you discuss the comparability of medicines. I have to say that as an opposition politician back then, I supported the interchangeability of medicines proposed by the former Minister, because I thought it was good because I thought it was important to save, and I think that this drug substitution move was actually good. And I am sure that the comparability of medicines in the future, if adopted, would have positive effects, not only on finance, but also on the price of medicines. But now, of course, it's obviously hard to convince you and it's hard so quickly to actually convince some groups of patients as well. Only so much for the answer, and I hope, of course, that we will, in fact, talk much about health care and financing for health and insurance. This is the weakest point of this health system, not the profession, but insurance, and of course it is not the fault of this government, of our mandate, but it is the fault of a fairly long-term procedure, although I must say that this system, as we now have, has been positive at some point and has led to a relatively stable health system. He survived today and there will be a lot of work to be done in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u175	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members. Of course, I am most interested here in this patient relationship, the doctor and the insurance industry. Of course, we already have replacement drugs. And doctors, on their own conscience, knowledge, deontology, and I don't know what else to do, decide whether or not this can happen. Comparability is certainly something else, as we were taught in this time and in fact in the law itself and in this relationship of patients, doctor and insurance company pharmaceutical industry, introduces a wide field where many things can happen. I am also talking about the fact that now things that concern health may become irrelevant, but they are becoming increasingly important in the areas of finance, finance. And if I'm exaggerating a little bit, then I can say that any placebo that costs only 1 tolar is a comparable drug to all other medicines, then this is the starting point and everything else has to be paid. Of course, I'm exaggerating and I don't want this to really happen, but this possibility exists, within one of the maybe narrower fields, as I said, but it certainly isn't getting rid of what you say, Mr Minister, it's said to be the biggest drug use in our country. It will be if they are comparable and interchangeable. In fact, this will not make any difference, except that people will pay more to pay than they did. Even the fact that this is a European requirement is not entirely true. Europe already requires us to amend the legislation, but I think there has been no speech about drugs. The public debate could also be debated. Something was posted on the Internet, and it was hanging there as long as it was hanging, and only after some woke up did the public debate begin. It always is. When something happens, people just feel the need to discuss it, but not before that. I think that amendments should be supported, only in this way do we get a safer and more secure structure of the law, or else the matter is open and can then be interpreted in any way that anyone thinks and wins the one who is stronger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u176	Mr. Run, then Mag. And then Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary! I asked you, I wanted to see if, with all the warnings given by the representatives of the risk groups, I could say today as many arguments as possible to convince me that he was wrong. I'm asking you to read a tape of what you've been saying so far, and to assess for yourself whether or not I'm right when I say you haven't convinced me. Why not? Firstly, you have said that the adoption of this Article and this law will only create technical possibilities for implementing how the system will function. Thus, all concerns can be justified because no one in the future knows how the system will function and can also function by affecting the financial capacity of those who warn. Second. You said that doctors have also been able to decide, within the various medicines, which they will prescribe, and that they are now mainly adding only one new criterion, that is the price. And you said that one of the fundamental objectives of this article is also to save, and at the same time you said that this should have no impact on the social situation. I don't understand, but it doesn't somehow go according to my logic and understanding together, and I don't understand it and it doesn't prevent me from not having a fundamental objective or quality treatment, not replacing or choosing where there really are no different health indications and consequences, but mainly the price. And lastly, you said that the profession in the definition of comparable drugs was divided, which again is not an argument that would convince me that this is a deliberate and indisputable decision. That is why, Mr Minister, I think it is still right to take the time to discuss these proposals, because you yourself have said that we have not been able to convince you that they are not possible in such a short time. Let's take a little more time to do this than to come up with consequences we don't want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u178	Thank you. More mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u179	Very briefly, Minister, you mentioned Sweden, I went online to check this information that you know about. In Sweden, 10% of gross domestic product is used for health care, which is about 50% more than in Slovenia. In addition, there are five responsible institutions in Parliament that do what you propose by Article 16. That's the difference. And of course, with limited resources, it is clear to me who in Slovenia will pay the price after what you are proposing - chronic patients.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, the word is yours again.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u181	Thank you so much for saying that. As far as the answer to Mr Potsch is concerned, I think we can actually say that patients will not be affected at the same time, but that less money will be spent on medicines, because medicines will be cheaper and because, of course, patients will also be able to receive the medicine that the doctor has prescribed. And if they need it, the more expensive the medicine, the doctor will prescribe it, do not replace it. In this case, of course, there is no harm to patients and there are no problems from a social point of view. As far as Mr Gulic's debate is concerned, I would say this - and I also think that Mr Squeakl mentioned earlier - I did not say that Europe requires this change from us, as foreseen in Article 16. We are adapting the law to European directives, not at this point, but in those parts where the European Union requires us to do so, but not at this point, so that we must not mix it. Now, of course, the system itself would certainly contribute to the better use of medicines, there is no doubt about that. And of course, the groups that would have been set up in this case, if such a law had been passed, would then be determined by the State to identify those groups in which, of course, comparable medicines could be replaced. However, an individual approach shall be decided by the doctor. Individual accessibility is decided by the doctor himself and I think this is the most important message I can give here and not by any means by the state. Of course we have systems, like in Poland. They have a system there that we would have if we did not adopt this law or this article. In six years there was no new drug registered, Slovenia could register on the basis of the current possibility of as many as 30 medicines per year. I think that there is a big difference in the availability of the latest medicines in the world, which are better than the previous ones, between a country that has such a system and a country that does not have one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u182	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. I am disturbed by two matters of interpretation or by the answers given by the distinguished Minister to the Members. And for the first time, it is about seeing you as Minister of Health, not Minister of the Economy or Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, which is why for me, of course, health is not a social category. Some elements have consequences that may affect social status, but in particular it is a good thing that, if maximally expressed, does not have a price and is also the last one to come in line with austerity measures. We're talking about health, about the quality of people's lives. That's why, of course, I didn't agree to shock therapy in this area and I'll give you a comparison. This article reminds me of the intention or the thesis developed by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs on this flexible employment. First, we will forgive and then, given the availability of resources to create new jobs, we will re-engage people. And I kind of think it's similar here. First of all, shock therapy, because it's still my opinion that all those risky people who are the commuters or users of these drugs, they probably have no intention of harming themselves. And Article 16 itself, I think, does not have a major preventive role to play in terms of health, but I agree, it can play a major preventive role in the budget or budgetary resources with these shock therapies. So once again, let's take our time, sleep for two more nights, and we can still accept this new law later.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u185	Thank you so much for saying that again. So today it has been often said by the minister that, of course, the scissors and canvas are in the hands of a doctor. I would point out that it was pointed out on the Committee that doctors, of course, want to have a certain text in the law that talks about protecting doctors from decisions, which means that there are certain reasons. I will now quote here a letter addressed to the President of the National Assembly, which is addressed by the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, and it says that, according to the proposal for a drug law, when the law is already in the process of adoption, Members wish to draw attention to the facts and ask them to reconsider. And that's what we're doing today. Regarding Article 16, they wrote: "The State must ensure that groups of comparable medicines are prepared by experts in cooperation with representatives of doctors, pharmacists and patients. It must be possible for your doctor to prescribe any medicine in accordance with professional doctrine." So the doctors are afraid of what's gonna happen here. "And as a housing organization of doctors and dentists, we reject the additional burdens of doctors who would be caused by inconsistent sub-laws regarding comparable medicines. We demand that the introduction of a category of comparable medicines will not reduce the quality of healthcare especially for chronic patients, who may be at risk of being placed at risk by paying for medicines." This means that there are certain fears about the role a doctor will play. I've talked about this before, but it looks like it's been over-heard. Mr. Minister, I would also like to remind you of a dilemma that has already been on the table. In the past, negotiations will take place today and in the future on certain rights related to the provisions of the Health and Health Insurance Act. And this matter certainly interferes with its content also in the provision of rights. Of course, we are interested in whether, if we miss this, it is not possible, say, to put this debate and the placement of such a text into a law that you are actually coordinating with the social partners in the broadest discussion, and in this way shed light on all the positive and negative consequences arising from the rights of health care and health insurance.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u187	Well, now Mr. Kumer is gone, but I don't think the drugs are so health care, entrepreneurship, development, and I don't know what else. It is difficult to say now that this is only a health problem, so funding must also be taken into account. As for your questions regarding doctors, however, I must say that in the third paragraph of Article 16 the last indent reads: "The decision shall be taken by the Minister to comply with the principle that the availability of individual medicinal products in a group of comparable medicines is decided by the person empowered to prescribe the medicines." [[Back-up advertising.]] Excuse me? Yeah, but it's in there, it's in the text. So I agreed to this and I have no comments here. So we agreed on this once before when we supported the amendment on the committee. So I think this part of your discussion somehow guarantees what you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I note that the discussions on Article 16 and the amendments are no longer in place, and I conclude it. I am opening the debate on Article 68 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Who wants a word? Mr. Germich, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Given that we are running out of time - I am glad that the government has somehow accepted the warning that we have already given in our parliamentary group in general, so that the law is judged by our opinion as a major failure not to be regulated by regulatory authorities in the Republic of Slovenia, which would allow for an equivalent comparison of arrangements in other EU Member States. I think that this comment was followed and then tried to place this regulatory authority as a public agency in the Committee's consideration of amendments. We have, of course, adopted a number of amendments to the Committee to address this problem, where this regulator would be defined as a public agency. In this regard, I am particularly interested in certain issues that have remained open, concerning the adoption of individual amendments. We may be able to arrange them with the harmonisation amendments, but of course I am particularly interested in the government's response here. So when we introduce this public agency, supervision is now found in the text of the law by different persons who are supposed to exercise supervision. Here I would also like to point out in particular the fact that today, in the opening presentation, Mr Secretary of State has also been talking about inspections, although the law itself speaks of supervision. This means that supervision is no longer, which gives me, first and foremost, the idea of whether decisions are made. So in the text of the law, let's say, we still keep the inspector, say, in 61st and 104th Articles, we have supervisors, which we will then also introduce with the amendments that we have here at the table in the various articles below. At the same time, we also have different forms of assessors, i.e. good production assessor, good distribution practices assesser and good practice assesser. [[...]] And, of course, I am interested, given that we have a law on inspection which prescribes, of course, the regulation of inspection services. We are now introducing supervision here and, of course, I am interested in a clear answer when we introduce this text into the whole law, how you assess the consistency of the introduction of pharmaceutical supervision, in terms of the implementation of the provisions of the Inspection Act, as the replacement of inspectors with supervisors applies in this law only certain articles, certain provisions of the Inspection Control Act. So, I would like to know what the supervisors' powers will be, because, of course, we would not, in particular, want to, if we were to expand the sale of medicinal products to specialized stores, so that at any point, when we are solving one problem that we are assessing in the LDS House in order to solve it, we would not make certain mistakes that were systemicly legal and I hope that the answer will be such that we can manage this non-compliance with the harmonisation amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Mr. Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u191	I'm sure we'll do this with the harmonisation amendments. The content of these harmonisation amendments is ready and will be submitted.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u192	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 68. We move on to the amendment to Article 75. I am putting this article to the debate, this is the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Who wants a word? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 79 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats and the LDS Group of Members. Who wants a word? Yes, please, Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u193	Thank you very much. This is the other of the two most important members, at least for my Group of Members. It also felt that, with the amendment we had adopted on the working body, we had reached so far into the substance of this law that it would also be acceptable for the pharmacy chamber, including for us who proposed amendments. Later in the debate on this amendment, we found that we are somehow interpreting it in our own way, that it is also interpreted differently by the profession and that it does not address the shortcomings that we have been alerting to, and that is why the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group has also been tabled in this article, which is also the result of a consultation with the pharmaceutical profession. The sense of people having a pharmacy monopoly is certainly also present in the public and that the margins could be slightly lower, they can be limited, but it can also be considered that the profits generated by pharmacies could be returned or placed in the health register and thus made possible more resources for the health sector. As we have already discussed in the general discussion about the drug law, we have said that we are deciding somehow whether to ensure adequate safety on the one hand or to make medicines more accessible on the other. We have opted for security, at least in the Social Democrats Group, because we have been warned by the profession that medicines that could potentially come into specialised stores are also drugs that can be very dangerous and deadly in different combinations. We also talked about Lecadol and the case of excessive use of Lecadol, which, in combination with alcohol, could pose a deadly danger to the one who might have taken the matter. With regard to accessibility, it should be said that the pharmacy network, the pharmacy network, should continue to be strengthened, it was said that there were 149 pharmacies in 1998; today there are 273. And if we want access to medicines, both prescription-free and prescription-free, we need to strengthen this pharmacy network further. And let me just say one last thing. The best combination in the treatment process is in the treatment process where the doctor and the pharmacist are involved. And if we don't have a doctor, we need to provide at least someone, or a high-education pharmacist, who can advise and that's absolutely necessary. With regard to the interest of drug sellers, I have already said in general treatment, the interest of those selling non-prescription medicines will certainly sell as many medicines as possible and thus gain as much profit as possible. That's when I even talked about when the time of the drug ran out to be sold on sale, but it probably won't happen. Thus, such an article as is now set out in this 79th Article is certainly not acceptable for the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u195	Thank you so much for saying that. On the committee, we have this article talking about the transport of medicines for retail, which is quite complementary, where we have sought a compromise on the release of sales, although I still think that, in view of what the Minister has said today, that Slovenians are involved in the use and purchase of medicines to the European summit itself, it seems to me that the ministry should be concerned that the measures take place here in the opposite direction. I would just like to point out that the LDS Club is proposing an amendment to the amended Article 79, which is to the fourth paragraph, which speaks of protecting, in fact, each or as much as possible, the deviation from this free sale in order to determine the transparency and accuracy of the fact that there will be no different interpretation of this provision, and thus ensuring the safety of the use of medicines, which, in our opinion, is essential for ensuring a high level of protection of public health. This means that we somehow accept that this is spreading, but with the amendment we ensure that the highest possible level of safety is ensured for all who buy these medicines and that the interpretations of this provision are precisely defined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I also support and am pleased that our parliamentary group has tabled an amendment that narrowly restricts the possibility of selling medicinal products in specialised shops, because there are so many warnings and alarms from all kinds of circles, it is not just pharmaceuticals, just pharmacies, it is still a matter of doctors who point out that the sale of medicinal products is, despite the fact that the expert body should decide on which medicines should be sold on sale, so much at risk that it is necessary in the law to limit it even further strictly, to reduce the scope of medicines or the number of medicines that can be sold in free circulation and, of course, to bind the professional body that will allow the sale of medicinal products in specialised shops, so that it will be limited in the future, but not left to pressure, in particular not only to the trader, but also to the producer of medicines that will be in the interest of selling them. The price is much easier to shape, the control is much smaller. Let's just say, when it comes to selling these drugs only to adults, I wonder what the seller will do in a specialised store, will he be committed to any buyer who comes to buy, say, if we're talking about aspirin and Lecadol to show his ID to see if he's really full-time or not? I don't think he's going to do it, just like a merchant does when a person comes to him who looks 20 or 22 years old and doesn't know him and sells him cigarettes that can't be sold to a person under a certain age. The same goes for alcohol. We're not in the United States of America where a youth at a restaurant is required to prove how old he is before selling him an alcoholic drink. Here I do not think that we will, no supervisory authority will be able to exercise control in such a precise manner as to prevent the sale of medicines to minors as well. Not to mention this, I was told by the pharmacists, because we have constant contacts with them, not as an MP, but because we are the founders of coastal pharmacies, they told me that they too often ask themselves, but now that they have medicines that sell without a prescription, they see that one person goes and buys a certain drug, then they stop it, they say sorry, we will not sell this medicine to you anymore, and they tell their neighbors not to sell the medicine to that person. So I think there must be a whole series of problems here, and therefore I think, Mr Minister, that it would be very good if this amendment were supported by you, because it would actually be a very serious responsibility that could arise from drug abuse in combination with other substances.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mojca Kucler Dolinar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Indeed, during the adoption of this law it has been shown that this issue is one of the more sensitive, than the more demanding, so a sensitive and demanding answer to the question of how to regulate the envisaged extended possibility of buying medicines without a prescription, i.e. the possibility of purchasing medicines in specialized shops. This 79th Article falls under the sixth chapter of the draft law which regulates the possibility of certain liberalisation in relation to the transport of medicinal products. And so, of course, we can also buy some drugs outside the pharmacy. We have already supported greater access to certain types of medicines in our parliamentary group in the course of the discussions, while stressing that relevant professional bodies should also be involved in the identification of these medicines, i.e. the relevant expert body, which, with all responsibility and expertise, will draw up a list of medicines that will go from pharmacies to specialized trade policies. We are aware of the fact that excessive use of medicines, excessive doses, could be harmful to society as a whole, not only for the individual but also for his family. It is precisely because of these concerns, which we have discussed and discussed in some way by the members of the Health Committee, that some amendments, the amendments to the Committee's amendment, have been put in place, which we have also adopted on the Health Committee and thus have been supplemented by this Chapter 6. They apply thus to the marketing of medicinal products for retail use, to the conditions for wholesalers, to the authorisation of the marketing of medicinal products and also to the marketing of medicinal products for retail and specialised shops. Thus, the provision of the law clearly makes clear that only non-medical medicinal products can be sold in retail trade in specialised shops, only those for which the competent authority so decides. In doing so, an additional restriction has been adopted that this authority may also impose restrictions on specific types of medicinal products in terms of strength, restrictions on the size of the packaging and the number of units sold of the medicinal product, which Mrs Member of Parliament referred to just before me and highlighted as a possible case. Therefore, it is possible that this authority will decide and establish smaller packages for sale in specialised shops. These restrictions and additional restrictions that medicinal products can only be sold to full-year-olds in specialised shops are those which we consider to be the guardians of our New Slovenia Group that we, as a legislative body, are obliged to accept. It is our responsibility, therefore, to satisfy both the safety condition and the accessibility condition, and according to our assessment, the draft law with the supplements adopted by the Health Committee has also been done effectively enough. Of course, then we have to ask for another responsibility, which is on us, on each individual and also on our awareness and our concern for our own health, in particular in the sense that we do not take too many medications. We therefore assess that the proposed amendment is not necessary, as we are, as we say, convinced that the provisions of the bill satisfy both the safety criteria and the accessibility criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 81 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 91 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 93 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I am putting to the debate Article 98 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Since no one wants a word, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 101 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 102 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.35 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR THE PARTICIPATION OF COMPETITION WORKERS AND THE PROPERTY OF EMPLOYMENTS. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Bojan Kontic. With regard to this law, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the bill-makers, Mr Bojan Kontic, to further explain the bill. Sorry, Mr. Contic is not here. The government has no say on this point. I would ask the ladies and ladies of the House to give peace and silence. Since Mr Bojan Kontic really was at the door, I apologize to him and ask him for his word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Sometimes something needs to be done outside the hall, it's probably purely human. Let me first mention in the introduction, on behalf of the drafter of the law on the participation of employees in profits and on the ownership of employees, our great disappointment that the mother's working body has not been positively identified in our proposal for a public presentation of opinions. Without substantial reasons and without a substantive debate, members of the coalition rejected the proposal for a public presentation of opinions. We all know the story of this law, which dates back to 1997. I know that so far there have been many opportunities to talk, to exchange views both professional and political on the content of this law. The general debate on the preliminary version of this law, which has ended in the first reading, has shown that Members and Members, as well as the rest of the political and professional public, have a positive attitude towards this issue, of course with certain substantive concerns and comments, which are the subject of substantive processing and the finalization of this law in the second reading. The participation of employees in profits is recorded both in the coalition contract and is an integral part of the government programme, i.e. in all the important documents that the government takes into account in its work. A public presentation of opinions would certainly enable the government to hear the voice of profession, civil society and politics before it starts drafting its own law, which it predicts. Even if we later rejected our proposal, the debate would certainly be useful. Within the European Union, too, there is a need to popularise this topic, so to speak publicly and to do so in all countries where it is not yet, a step forward for employees to be involved in the sharing of profits and also in the ownership of employees. The Commission for the Social Activities of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia also found that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has a similar content in its 2006 work programme and the Commission proposed that the proposal under consideration use and organise a public presentation of opinions and that it be added in certain segments in accordance with the opinions of the profession and with its opinion. At the celebration of the 1st of May last year, Members and Members of the Social Democrats introduced this law into the procedure, the proposal for a law on the participation of employees in the company's profits and on the ownership of employees. Due to the desire for a quality law, we have proposed that the law be dealt with in the first instance, which has also taken place in the National Assembly, and unfortunately, despite the support of the profession and policy at that time, the position of the National Assembly has been negative. The urgency of the enforcement of employee participation in the company's profits is found in the social agreement for the period 2003-2005, in which the social partners stated their agreement that it is necessary to speed up the preparation of the law on the participation of employees in the company's profits, and this is not least planned by government parties, as I said, in their programme. In 1997 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepared a proposal for a law on the participation of employees in the company's profits. The precise answer why the project has not been implemented to date, I don't know, but probably some of the reasons are also in the comments made by the profession at the time. The section assessed that, while the proposal was in line with the recommendations of the European Union, it did not address the issue of the institutional arrangements for employee equity. Entry and establishment of profit schemes with organised shareholdings already acquired by domestic owners in the privatisation process, tax reliefs for businesses and individuals, all forms of profit participation, exemptions from social contributions, withdrawals from employee shareholding linked to pension savings. And on the basis of the comments made in the marriage, what have we changed? A new chapter on labour-sharing, which is linked to the regulation of participation in profit, is added to investments in pension savings, such as tax exemptions on exit from the labour-sharing plan. Tax relief has been further developed and this key area is no longer left to the field, i.e. tax legislation. The link between wage policy and employee participation in profits has been eliminated. At the Lisbon Summit of March 2004, the European Union set itself the goal of becoming the most competitive and dynamic, knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustaining economic growth at the expense of more new and better jobs and at the expense of greater social cohesion. Financial participation of employees can thus offer an important contribution to the achievement of these objectives. For businesses, financial participation has become increasingly important, in particular as an instrument for motivating employees, to align the interests of employees with the interests of shareholders. The proposal for a law for which the mother labour body proposes that we today take a decision on its inadequacy foresees two main categories of financial participation schemes. The first is the so-called 'prof sharing', which means the sharing of profits between those providing capital and those providing work in a way that allows employees to receive, except of course established wages, a variable share of income directly linked to profits or to any other criterion for assessing the company’s results. Another time. The ownership of employees who enable employees who receive central participation in the company’s results to receive dividends and or to increase the value of the capital held by employees. Share options allow employees to acquire company shares at a specified price and for a specified period. However, despite the comments of so-called social activities, we have included "gain sharing". Such schemes are not related to the financial impact of the company, but are linked to other criteria, such as increasing productivity, reducing costs and so on. This is particularly relevant in relation to the public and non-profit sectors where standard forms of financial participation may not be applicable. After the adoption of this law, the law would later regulate this area. As I have already mentioned, we are also in line with the guidelines within the European Union. On the basis of a study carried out at the request of the European Commission, the main reason why companies introduce financial participation is to encourage employees to take an interest in a successful business, thereby creating company ownership and enhancing the coherence of the interests of employees with the interests of shareholders. In doing so, it is essential to note that a clear line between income resulting from financial participation schemes and remuneration needs to be established. Let me also say very briefly the differences that are in this law today compared to the law that was introduced and dealt with at the general hearing of the national assembly and was not adopted. In particular, we stress that labour stock is not compulsory for economic operators, unlike participation in profit. Participation in profits and the work-sharing plan under this Act shall be voluntary, except for companies with more than 30 employees, where, under certain conditions, employee participation plans are compulsory. I would point out, however, that labour stock is optional for companies under this law and that each company itself, on the basis of tax incentives, decides whether or not it joins or joins the labour market. This is also one of the main differences with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which says that this law, i.e. obligations for companies with more than 30 employees, cannot be recorded and leave to the voluntary decision-making of economic operators. We have now very clearly defined the amount of profits to be distributed to workers. We've previously written in the law that this is 25% of the profit that is meant to be shared. Now we've written in the law that this sum is 25% of the profit that's meant to be divided. So it's no longer one quarter, but one quarter of what's meant to be shared. We have withdrawn from the law the determination of a capital company and thus extended the validity of the law to private companies. We have reduced the pay-out limit and the abolition of machining in marriage with other articles. Payment to workers is no longer limited to the average monthly amount of salary, but only with 15% of the amount of annual wages. Expanding the possibility of contracting profit participation also to companies with less than 30 employees, as set out in this Article, we have withdrawn the very important word "may" in Article 6 in the second paragraph. With a view to a greater commitment by the Assembly to determine the conditions for participation of employees, we deleted the word "only" and added that "the Assembly shall also determine the amount intended for compulsory division". And we have further increased social security for employees who have been absent from work for a long time, i.e. in the case of sick leave, maternity leave, and provided them with equal treatment in terms of productivity in the distribution of profits. There are still some of these changes, but these are the most important changes that have been introduced in this law in contrast to the law that was discussed at the meeting of the Assembly of State in autumn last year. So the essence of this law is participation of employees in profit and in the second part, labour stock and promotion of pension savings. Above all, it should be stressed that this is not some form of current consumption of profits to be shared. The law still records a three-year delay in the payment of this profit and also records how this profit is managed and how it is also paid and actually paid after three years. This is, of course, an additional incentive to think about development, to invest in development in individual companies, i.e. those that will join the workers' participation in profit. The law, as I have already said, also dealt with the Commission for Social Activities in the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, which supported the bill. The Commission considers that Slovenia needs such a law because experience from countries that develop and promote different forms of participation of employees in the company's profits shows that such incentives have positive effects on higher levels of productivity and profitability of companies, for greater flexibility in wage policy and more stable employment growth. In doing so, it is important to stress that it is essential to ensure a sound legal system and a favourable economic environment in order to ensure employees' participation in the company's profits. It is also interesting that part of the government's negative opinion presented by a representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the meeting of this commission, and as a basis for a negative opinion, it states that such a law would lead to major anomalies in the pay system. The participation of employees in profits is not about wages at all, but it is about further incentives for employees to better work, to become more corporate, to achieve overall quality, to increase innovation and so on. There are more than enough reasons to reject today's proposal for a parent's working body. In this way, we will allow the mother's labour body to focus on addressing the content of this law and, if necessary, to amend it. This will also take into account the comments of the legislative and legal service. So it won't be the first time that the amendment government has reordered the law, just as it thinks it's the right thing to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Strovs, Director-General of the Directorate for Labour Relations and Labour Rights, also attends this agenda item. Nicely greeted! The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman, DeSUS Group of Members, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u203	Thank you so much for saying that. We have before us a law on the participation of employees in the profits and ownership of employees, and it was expected that it would happen as it did last year, even now, that this proposal would not be adopted with open hands and affection. In particular, this rejection took place again by the Ministry of Finance, the Government and the Labour Authority. We in the DeSUS Group do not have such a negative position. We could say that we have an ambivalent relationship, but in no way do we reject this law. We are aware of what has already been said that this is one of the commitments of the coalition treaty, that this is also recorded in the framework of reforms, as one of the conditions for realisation and that the government is not unfriendly to the basic idea. The basic idea, or basic ambition, is that it only imitates what they already have elsewhere in the developed world. If we had a marriage like this, we wouldn't be an exception to anything special. We're special in that we don't have that yet. Therefore, it is unlikely that a special delay in the adoption of this or this kind of law may indicate something. What brings positive, according to our judgment, this proposal for a law is certainly an attempt to ensure to those who create social wealth, including participation in the sharing of this social wealth, in fair sharing. It is positive that this would probably contribute to better identification of employees with the company in which they are employed; perhaps this would reduce fluctuations, increase continuity with a particular employer, surely reduce some costs in terms of increased motivation, increased productivity and so on. In short, the bill sets out a number of advantages that we don't even know if will happen exactly that way, but it is quite likely that this would be a positive contribution. However, it is undeniable that this would only work with tax and other reliefs, which the applicant is also aware of. This raises some questions that, according to my judgment, are also purely legitimate. So, the question of whether this will really increase the willingness to invest; whether there will be more jobs; or whether, if more jobs, more contributions will be made to various cash, pension, health, or whether the tax base from which the other needs will then be financed will be greater; or whether there will be more pension insurance than the prospect of one option. So these are questions that we probably can't give purely definitive answers to. What worries us a little is the proposaler's expectations that if such a law were adopted, the pressure on wages and later on the harmonisation of wages would be slightly lower, slightly lighter. This, of course, means a few fewer contributions to the pension fund. As with the pension fund, we probably know at this point, and nothing shows that we should rush into any weakening of its ability to provide pensions even in the future. In particular, if we consider that those who are now retired from these labour stocks will not have anything at this time, they will not be able to participate in the profits of individual companies. And even those who will soon enter this retirement period will not have much of it. So for those, it's probably a little less attractive. So these tax reliefs are not just and only positive. This is what is causing us to have a few doubts, but not so strong that we think we need to support the Committee's decision. On the contrary, we think that the law is relatively well prepared, that we have supported significantly worse laws and that the weaknesses that it still has should be addressed in a second reading. We will therefore support the appropriateness of the law for consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill, SDS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! I suppose everyone here still remembers that we have already considered a practically identical proposal for a law on employee participation in profits at last September's meeting. On the basis of a number of alleged shortcomings, this bill was rejected in the National Assembly, as we have assessed that it was not suitable for further consideration. The statements made by the motioners and by Mr Kontić that the bill was a good one and that the government and the ruling coalition reject it only because it has been tabled by the opposition are ridiculous and misleading. In order to refresh the memory, it should be pointed out that, on that proposal, 12 pages of the comments were submitted by the Association of Slovenian Workers' Council of Slovenian Companies. We also received comments from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia on eight pages. This law was also not in line with the social partners. As in the ridicule of all the well-intentioned criticisms of the then bill, honourable Members and Members of the Group of Social Democrats, you have again tabled a practically identical bill. However, with regard to the amended content of the re-submitted proposal itself, we can see that although the authors wanted to make some minor changes, it is not possible to expect that the existing bad proposal of the already rejected law could result from what is significantly better, on the contrary, all the added changes have unfortunately brought a lot of confusion and even more contradiction than the original law. To this end, we can see from the opinion of the legislative and legal service, which has stated its comments on five printed pages. If we withdraw the comments of the legislative and legal service, we can find that this bill would bring a number of contradictions and confusions to our legal order in relation to other laws. This is a law on acquisitions, a law on income, a law on corporate income tax, a law on companies, and probably more. Therefore, in its opening opinion, this service has immediately pointed out that the applicability of this law in practice is very questionable when it is put into effect. It was clearly the intention of the proposers of this law, this is the Social Democrats, only the implementation of cheap populism on extremely important topics, which is so complex and complex that it deserves a comprehensive professional and inter-resort coordinated approach, which is why, as such, only the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can prepare it qualitatively. The Coalition Treaty of the ruling coalition has a clear statement in its text that it will endeavour to establish appropriate legal solutions for the participation of employees in profit and labour. We also support the idea of creating and creating opportunities in the Slovenian Democratic Party for employees to be able to participate in profit and labour. In preparing this law, it is necessary to follow the objective of encouraging those forms of awarding the apostolics resulting from the actual positive performance of the business and at the same time increasing savings and investment in development and investment. The decision on the participation of employees in profit and labour should be based on a voluntary basis both by employers and by employees. We are convinced that the expected objectives can only be achieved in such a way that all social partners are aware of the mutual benefits of such cooperation. Even in other countries, the only exception here is France, where employees participate in profits, this is based on a non-binding way. In the event that we are interfering with such legislation in an area in which all social partners should participate, the SDS considers that their opinions and views should also be taken into account when preparing this proposal. In the SDS, we are surprised that the drafters of this law have not included the social partners in the drafting of the law, although almost all the other legislation drafted by the government likes to refer to them, and they obviously did not feel that it was important for the social partners to participate in this important topic. All these comments and proposals prove that the bill we are considering today is bad, weak, nonconsistent and will not be supported by the SDS Group in such content for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Matej Lahovnik has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the LDS Club will support the proposed law because we believe it is suitable for further consideration. We agree, of course, that there are certain weaknesses in the marriage proposal, which can be prepared, and that if further consideration takes place, we will draw up appropriate amendments and believe that the law will be very appropriate in its final form and that it will positively affect the competitiveness of Slovenian companies. The fact is that we are becoming a society of knowledge that we have this in the development strategy of Slovenia, that this is said by the reform committee, that we are all stressing the importance of knowledge, investment in human capital, and, of course, on the other hand, it is logical for employees who in some way embody human capital to be able to co-operate with businesses in order to enable them to participate in the profits of businesses. This has a positive impact on the motivation of employees, resulting in a beneficial impact on productivity and thus on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. The fact that the law is, of course, as it is, largely inconsistent with certain other laws: the law on income, the law on acquisitions, the law on economic societies, and the law on companies, is inconsistent in the sense that matters need to be brought together in substance, with the fact that we have both the law on acquisitions, indirectly that the government has it on the table, that it has formed a working group and is preparing changes to this legislation. The Income Act is being complemented all the time and I see no reason why it could not be completed in the appropriate way that it is also in conformity with this proposed law. And we also have a law on companies where we have recently had a public hearing. And this law provides for the concept of a European shareholder company where companies have the option or owners to decide between a single and two-tier management system. We know that, in the case of a single management system, the role of employees in the management of the company has been significantly reduced, that the Ministry of the Economy has also announced that in this regard it is preparing some amendments, that they want to make it more possible for employees to influence management, that, on the other hand, there is now a law on the participation of employees in management and in the sharing of profits at the table of this Parliament. And I think that if, however, we are consistent with all the documents that we have adopted in some way either in the national assembly or in the government - but I am talking about the development strategy of Slovenia, about the various documents relating to the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy - then there is no reason not to support the law that is before us that is suitable for further consideration. As I said, we are assessing that the shortcomings that are evident and which certainly exist can be addressed by the amendments tabled in the next stages of the legislative procedure. This is why, in the LDS House of Members, we assess that the law is suitable for further consideration, we will vote accordingly, but of course we expect that, given the fact that we are considering this law for the second time in this mandate, we will pour ourselves pure wine. And if we all really support it, these concepts, then let those who vote against this law today in the next stages of the procedure draw up their alternative proposal, because in this way we will be credible before the public, so that we will not repeat this story again and again as bad sequels in several parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potč has the floor on behalf of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u209	Thank you very much. On the basis of the opinion of the government and the votes of the coalition Members, the mother labour body suggests that we do not adopt a proposal for a law. I hope that reason will prevail and that the National Assembly will not support this decision. Obedience to the government and to its own parties can also have its limits, especially when the proposed solutions are in line with the government's declared policy, when the proposal is indisputably European comparable and explicitly supported by the social partners, trade unions and the Economic Chamber. Finally, when there are no more serious arguments that the law should not begin the legislative path. And that's exactly the situation in this case. The government, especially its President, in their public performances, is declarants and underlines their willingness to listen to all the constructive proposals of the opposition. Even the government did not hope to record in its opinion that the proposal was not constructive but that certain issues still need to be addressed. The proposal is therefore a real opportunity for the government to move from words to action and at such an important point support the proposal. In its public performances, the government also emphasises that it wants to respect and develop social partnership and partnership democracy; that its interest is also a society of prosperity and a better life for all; that it is necessary to promote a partnership of work and capital, that only with the proper cooperation of both workers and capital can the best results be achieved, social peace and the most rapid economic and social progress in the long term. And our proposals have exactly these objectives. For us Social Democrats, these are important elements of social regulation and practice, but we also stress the practices not only of principle. The government also includes in its economic and social reform programmes a greater involvement of employees and all citizens and citizens in the creation of social wealth. In doing so, it stresses that all citizens need to be more aware of their own responsibilities for employment, permanent education, their own health and the like. Not to mention any areas of social life in which the government believes that this direct responsibility of the State must be reduced and the responsibility of the individual increased. While we believe that these expectations of countries are often exaggerated and therefore create uncertainty and fear, they only predict a very concrete reduction of rights and very uncertain promises, paths and opportunities to compensate for lost rights with their own engagement. The proposal before you increases people's engagement and enhances their security and their contribution to joint development. That is why we do not understand that the government does not accept the proposal, which is precisely aimed at increasing the capacity of individuals for greater social security, the greater responsibility for the success of its own business and thus indirectly of companies as a whole, not by both deadlines, but by seeking formal excuses that all issues are not clarified, that some solutions still need to be examined, or that the government will soon come with its own better proposal, as if always and all the government's proposals are as comprehensive and imagined, rather that they do not need to be written on a very important scale in the National Assembly due to substantive and legal imperfection. And it would also be possible to object to the empty words by which the government rejects our proposal for a law. I therefore appeal to Members and Members to vote against the proposed decision and to resolve any dilemmas and possible shortcomings in the process of its adoption, not to reject the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Franc Capuder, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Members! The success of an economic company depends on several factors. And one of them is also successful and, above all, the work of employees is satisfactory. This raises the question of how to involve employees more actively in creating a more efficient business environment. It is likely logical that direct or indirect ways of encouraging the various forms of employee participation in profits and ownership should have an incentive effect on the productivity and profitability of the company, or in the final form should have an impact on the greater added value of the product or service and on the greater competitiveness of those companies. It was not long ago that we should break ties with socialist self-government, where we were all employees of formal owners of the companies in which we were employed. Most of us were also involved in profit, some more, others less. Of course, we all remember too well where we felt that everything was ours at that time. At that time, the importance of ownership of most employees was not even aware of what was later shown to be the cause of social privatisation, that is our property, where well-informed and legally well-educated individuals and corporate leaders played the country and citizens and citizens and seized huge assets for themselves. In Novi Slovenije-Christian People's Party, we are convinced that co-ownership of employees as a property structure in companies is an extremely good thing, especially if employees are also aware of the ownership. For financial participation in the ownership of the company can be an excellent motivation for employees to improve the performance of businesses and to invest more in the development of the company itself. In the Republic of Slovenia, the participation of employees in the company's profits is now regulated by the company law. The current labour and corporate rules allow but do not require employees to participate in the company's profits. On the basis of specific statutory arrangements, the balance sheet profit could be used in addition to statutory purposes for other purposes, for example, for the payment to employees as already applied, for payments to members of the board, members of the Supervisory Board and so on. However, in our party we believe that the relevant law on the participation of employees in the company's profits and ownership could make an important contribution to the creation of a more efficient business environment in which employees can be actively involved or involved in a slightly changed role. We are convinced that the decision on profit participation should be voluntary, but not compulsory, since legally established compulsory participation in a positive profit could also be considered compulsory participation in a negative profit or loss, and that the employees would probably not agree. However, in the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we cannot support the proposal for a law that we have before us today in its existing form, because a number of provisions are inconsistent with other legislation on the economic system and inflexible and would burden economic operators disproportionately with the benefits. In our view, the law should contribute more to the development of effective cooperation between employers, employees and businesses as separate legal persons. Finally, the lack of consistency was pointed out by the legislature in its comprehensive opinion. Therefore, in the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we can only support the purpose of this law, but we cannot support the content or solution of the law and the law, regardless of who the proposer is.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič has the floor on behalf of the SLS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u213	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we would like, on the side of the present decision of the parent body, on the proposal for a law on the participation of employees in the company's profits and on the ownership of employees submitted by a group of Members that is not suitable for further consideration, to say in particular that, despite the introduction of a few minor amendments to the bill in relation to the substantive preliminary law that was carried out in the national assembly at the 9th ordinary meeting, the position of the parliamentary group has not changed, and we will support the proposal for a decision. We believe, however, that the purpose of the proposed law is certainly good, because if we want to highlight the truer principle of partnership in companies and thereby raise the awareness of employees to belong to the company and thus further encourage the motivation of employees to contribute to the company's performance, then the current government will have to regulate the issue of employee participation and the question of them as small shareholders through the project approach. In view of the complexity of resolving this issue with issues related to tax legislation, we believe in the Group that the Government must be the holder of this project with regard to the issue of social security contributions. At the same time, we fear that as long as the state does not withdraw significantly from the ownership of businesses, there will not be much motivation to see that everything about small equity issues in favour of employees, this is for the benefit of small shareholders, will not change much. For if this were different, then this question would have been resolved in the long term in 1997 and, if not then, certainly resolved in the last term, when Dr Dimovski, the competent authority for these issues, was led by Dr Dimovski, whom, at least personally, I think he was successful if not already a very successful minister. Certainly not the applicant's address, and not the current situation in the company's ownership structure, do not give a real opportunity to adopt a serious law that will regulate the questions of participation of employees in profits and in the company's ownership. Therefore, according to our understanding, the decision made by the parent working body is, in this sense, the only thing that makes sense is that, after all, the national assembly is being set free for other purposes, which is, in other words, to have a purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u214	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, and I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 4:40 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u215	Dear Members and Members! We continue our regular session. We have reached a decision point or a vote. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. Before we go to the vote, please check the voting apparatus, because if everything is okay, the vote will take place fine. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, the assembly will decide on the next proposal for a decision. I'd like to ask you to calm down! Thank you. "The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next regular session on the response of Minister of Finance, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, to the question of Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš on the budget resources for the operation of the Association against Sexual Abuse." Here you are, Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, an explanation of the voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u216	Thank you so much for saying that. I have proposed, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in fact the possibility given to me by the Rules of Procedure, i.e. an extended debate on the response of the Minister of Finance to my question yesterday. It is simply that the government or the ministry, that is, the executive branch of the authority responsible for the implementation of its budget, does not know how to implement the budget. On the contrary, it went specifically to 3 million Slovenian tolars of budgetary resources, which it confirmed, in the form of an amendment to the budget, this National Assembly. Nor is the Minister of Finance, who, in my opinion, is a responsible, responsible person, since it is not the last time that the budget comes from his own hands, nor is the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, who is otherwise competent, because within his departmental ministry it is intended to redistribute or distribute funds. In short, I am afraid that the government has set itself a somewhat wide margin of manoeuvre for the use of budgetary resources, including those adopted in the form of amendments by this National Assembly. And to avoid future ambiguities, it would make sense to get answers to the basic questions that we have not otherwise received and I fear we will not get them either. Is the explanation of the amendment to the budget an integral part and a binding part also for the government? Thank you very much and I hope that you will support the proposal for an extended debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u217	Thank you very much. We're voting. 71 Members and Members voted 29 to 40. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana Cvikla will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bajuk, to the question of mags. Milan M. Exercisel regarding the supervision of the functioning of the Insurance Supervisory Agency." Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Members! Yesterday, I asked the Minister, in the late hours, what he had done as Minister of Finance to control the functioning of the Insurance Supervisory Agency; what he, as the Minister responsible for the development of the insurance system, had done to protect the interests of members of the Mutual Insurance Company in its transformation. For the most part, the Minister of Finance, in a lengthy two-time reply, said that everything was fine, that everything was legal, that the Insurance Supervisory Agency was doing what the law prescribed. And then, of course, I asked him if everything was okay, but why did we have a four-day special session a few days ago? Well, and because the answer of the Minister of Finance was inadequate, I propose that we discuss the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, Mr Bručan, Mr Janša, as they took care of the implementation of the fourth paragraph of Article 62 of the Insurance Act, because with appropriate supervision and influence on the work of the Insurance Supervisory Agency - last but not least, the Government appoints the Director, the Government appoints the members of the relevant supervisory authorities in this agency - it can ensure that it works faithfully. It is quite clear that Mr Gorišek, as Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, did not perform his duties and, directly under the law on public servants, the Minister of Finance could propose appropriate measures against him. That's not what the minister did. On the contrary, yesterday he explained to us in the late hours that everything was fine, and we had a four-day session a few days ago. I therefore believe that this is a valid reason to support today's procedural decision to hold a debate in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 at the next meeting. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u219	Thank you very much. We're voting. There were 75 votes in favour of Members and Members, 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to broken 2nd item of the agenda. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Assembly will vote on the Personal Name Act tomorrow, 1 February 2006, in the framework of the votes. We're moving on to the 3rd item of the agenda. In accordance with Article 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Assembly will vote on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance tomorrow, 1 February 2006, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the end of the 4th item of the agenda - the second reading of the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the University of Primorska on loans hired to co-finance the extension and modernisation of spatial conditions. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to Article 1. Here you go, Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I propose that the National Assembly adopt the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group, which I signed, but at the same time made one mistake to forget to type in three zeros, although the explanation makes this sum quite clear to increase the guarantee from billions and 500 million tolars to a billion 932 million tolars, as the representative of the University of Primorska at the meeting of the Home Committee also said that this increase would enable us to complete the investment of the Faculty of Humanities Studies, Rectorate, Tourism, Centre for Languages and Intercultural Communication, Faculty of Education and Faculty of Management. Of course, I apologize that this embarrassment with this amendment was created solely because of my mistake, then we made a correction, and I hope that colleagues from coalition parties who have also signed the same amendment as I have voted in favour of it and that the University of the Sea will receive a beautiful journey for the future on its third birthday.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Bakan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u222	Of course, I will support this amendment, and once again, I say that the investment plans of the University of Primorska - even on the committee, as I understand them, have not been present, have been considered - very distracted and, in particular, for my concepts, it is extremely important that the University of Primorska has focused on practically investing in all those municipalities that have been willing to participate in any way in providing basic conditions for the creation of space for individual programmes. Both Sežana and Izola, as well as Koper, like Piran, are already talking about this in Illyrian Bistrica, and I must say that here it is seen that it is not a university that is alienated from its environment, but it is thinking about connecting to the ice in which it works. The only thing I am sorry about is that we have not reached a connection with Northern Primorska as well and that this space would be covered by a strong university that would provide, as a colleague previously said, development and accelerated education of young people whom we invite from all of Slovenia to come to study with us and to strengthen us with their knowledge and their dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Dr. Mark Pavlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Let me also say at the third anniversary of the University of the Sea that I will support the amendment of the Social Democrats, and I will also support the whole law, black from under the pen and the idea of a positionary Member, that this should be just one stone in the mosaic of the constructiveness of the opposition. However, I cannot go beyond the concern I have already expressed on behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia at the opening presentation this morning, namely, about the way in which the financing, which has been apparently recently, during the reign of the government of Janša, has disintegrated. By the way, over-indebted. This opportunity, of course, has been seen since the adoption of the guarantee for the construction of motorways, the investments have increased by almost 700%, now we see in the field of education, tomorrow we will see in another area. We have already tried, when adopting the budget with the amendments, to influence the increase in resources where we need them most bloodyly, namely in the field of knowledge, in the field of education and in the field of higher education. I'm sorry our amendments didn't work out. This means that, of course, this kind of policy will not be in charge of us for 5, 10, 20 years, it will be in charge of us over 2070, it will also be in charge of our grandchildren and grandchildren, but it certainly does not change my decision to vote in favour of both the amendment and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u226	Thank you very much. It is very commendable that colleagues in the opposition from Social Democracy and the LDS will support or do what they did when they were not in power, since the University of Primorsk was established in February 2003 and half a year later, by a government decree, a law was passed in the then National Assembly, which regulated the guarantee for the University of Ljubljana and Maribor. At that time, of course, the guarantee for the University of Primorsk would also be expected to be settled. As this has not been done in all these years, it has obviously been necessary to wait for the change of power to be settled, but this is positive. I think that it is also positive that we have shown one thing in this matter, I would say, a sober assessment in support of individual solutions, although this exercise was to be repeated, with the amendment after we have assessed that the amendment tabled would mean a reduction and not an increase in resources, is unnecessary. If it had happened sooner, of course, it would have been necessary, and so I think it was totally unnecessary and does not bring anything to the very solutions brought about by law. The guarantee offered by this law is granted under more favourable conditions than the guarantee granted to the University of Maribor and Ljubljana, so that this government does not invent anything new in the provision of guarantees, but continues what it has not been arranged when it is to be arranged for all three universities of the state. I will support this amendment and the law myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Davorin Terchón has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u228	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. However, the previous coalition, if I recall correctly, established the University of Primorsk, so that there would be no doubt. Now, as far as these amendments are concerned, I must say that I will support them. It is necessary to say what my colleague Pavliha has already started, so that I am a little skeptical about how to finance. In doing so, I must say that in the framework of the LDS budget debate, we have also tabled amendments to solve the problem that we are solving today. We would save it more and better, as this would go to the same extent with the reallocation within the lines, but not with the guarantee, which is one of the points - we know that we have another - the guarantees of the country, which will lead to a great debt of the country. On the other hand, it must be said that all the signatories to this Act have been invited to sign the amendment in the context of the budgetary debate, and this amendment has not been supported by the budget. A few days later, however, they introduced a law that only Bevk, a colleague, designed and enlarged better, so that this height is now appropriate. I will certainly support this, and I hope that in the future this kind of competition will receive more consensus, regardless of political colours.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudy Mogue has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u230	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. I will support this amendment myself, even though I think that the government would do inappropriately more to benefit this country by redefining the Basic Development Programmes Act in the field of education. The fact that the government is working extremely badly is also proof that it cares little about what is happening at the University of Primorsk, by warning several times that this problem needs to be resolved and that this problem remains only on the shoulders of Members, so that Members have addressed the problem that the government had to give. On the other hand, respected colleagues and colleagues who have only slightly wet their beak into school legislation will know that although the University of Primorsk was indeed established in February 2003, when it was established by decree, the temporary authorities had to be called. These temporary authorities then prepared the statutes of the university as such, according to the Member States. When this was adopted, it was necessary to choose from the statutes of a coherent Senate, after the Senate had been elected and the Administrative Committees at the University, a plan of this university had to be drawn up, and before all of this was done together, and before the University could as a public institution representing itself in investments, it was possible to have a public idea of what it needed - because, at the beginning, when we adopted the law, it was determined that it had all the premises - but it had been more than half a year. Once again, I thank all those colleagues and colleagues, except one who is sitting here, who opened this resolution on the transformation of the University of Primorska, or I think it would be nice if today this amendment was also unanimously supported and abandoned if someone did not know the law at the place.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Horvat has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. On my behalf and on behalf of my colleagues and colleagues in the New Slovenia Group, I can say that we will support this amendment, as well as the law, not only because our fellow Member is our fellow Member, Mr Testen, but because we know that knowledge is the convertible currency for which we are also responsible, to convey it to our young generations who will lead this country in the future. But no link would work with Slovenian highways, especially those that are unfortunately not yet built. But I hope that one day the University of Murska Sobota will come along this highway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u234	Of course, the logic of things should be to oppose these amendments and this law, especially because if the national assembly or the government has proposed and the State Assembly has set up a university, then this university should have the same treatment and have the same conditions as the other two at the start as well as those that will be established in the future, as I hear. And if the other two were favored by the happy stars and received a credit on a good basis, then, of course, it is wrong to give credit only to this university, even if it is with a state guarantee and will probably be repaid later. But given that we are going to be in charge of a billion euros this week or next week, and I don't know which other items too, it would be very unfair not to give that vote, so I would be happy to support it. However, I fear that adding from one address or another to Slovenia's long-term debt will probably be bad. That is why I also believe that this law, including the amendment that will be adopted, will, I have no doubt, encourage all those who will vote today to make an appropriate contribution to this university in its basic division.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr Aurelio Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u236	Thank you, Vice President. As I have discussed before, I am also expressing my support for the amended amendment. At the same time, because I have not received the minister's reply, I call on the government to reconsider - and I think I can do so on behalf of my colleagues Pavliha and Klavore - on running with our coastal university to form a Mediterranean university - a serious project to which the government must respond responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u237	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the revised amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 1. I think that the explanation was given by Mr Bevek and there were enough words on the consistency of both proposals or both amendments, which are the same in content. With this correction, Mr Bevek, of course, the amendment to the proposed amendment is irrelevant. We're voting. I note that there were 75 votes in favour, 73 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to more than one-tenth of the articles were adopted in the second reading of the amended draft law, the assembly will hold the third reading of the draft law at the next meeting. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue on the 5th item of the agenda. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the Assembly will vote on the Law on Mortgage and Municipal Bond tomorrow, 1 February 2006, in the framework of the votes. We're moving on to point six. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on amendments and amendments to the law on price control tomorrow, 1 February 2006, in the framework of the vote. We're moving on to point seven. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the Assembly will vote on the law on secondment of persons to international civilian missions and international organisations tomorrow, 1 February 2006, in the framework of the vote. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft drug law. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the amendment of the LDS Group of Members and the amendment of the same content of the DeSUS Group of Members to Article 16. Mr. Germich, what question do you have?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u238	Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u239	Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman. So we have before us a law that transposes legislation from the European Union into the Slovenian legal order, while also regulating certain areas that are within the competence of each Member State. The law already introduces the concept of interchangeability of medicines, which in practice is already tested and allows the control of the expenditure of medicines, without any deterioration of their access to quality, safe and effective medicines. At the same time, the so-called concept of cross-comparable medicinal products is being introduced in a new way, for which it is both a government in the text prior to the introduction and submission and has failed to demonstrate the clear reasons and consequences of the proposed measure, and in particular the consequences for the provision of individual health care have not been shown. In the Liberal Democracy, of course, we have always supported proposals that would, of course, ensure a reduction in the cost of health bills, as this concept of drug replacement in the previous government has also been introduced. Of course, we are not in favour of introducing certain measures without justification for the consequences that may be contributed by the adoption of this law. This is also mentioned by all warnings from different societies, associations of different groups of patients who talk about the possibility of worsening the health status of patients [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u241	Mr. Germich [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u242	I'll just be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u243	I warn you to shorten and move on to the subject, procedural question, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u244	Mr President, I think there is time running out for a procedural proposal and I would ask you to at least allow me to explain at this time. So for that content there are many, many reasons to reconsider them. At least warnings from different groups of patients suggest that about 600,000 patients could be placed in a poorer social and health situation. There are also warnings from the Medical Chamber and information about the possibility of a referendum, we propose to the parliamentary groups and also to the Ministry that we consider what the consequences will be. I therefore propose, in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the Group of Members, that the decision on the matter be postponed to one of the following meetings, because we believe that this way the Government could reconsider the proposed decision and respond to all these uncertainties as soon as we reach a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u245	You have heard the proposal, the procedural proposal or the proposal by Mr Germić, and I therefore believe that the decision on the second reading would be transferred to one of the following meetings or perhaps to the first meeting. For this reason, I ask all leaders of the parliamentary groups to define the proposal if they so wish. I think Mr Germich himself has made a proposal from the LDS Group. If anyone wants, please, please, Mr. Run, please. [[...]] On behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u246	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the debate, and also in my request and subsequent comment on the Minister's debate, I proposed and considered that nothing serious would have happened if the issues that were most important, namely, whether to introduce Article 16 into law, in particular its third and fourth paragraphs, had been decided a second time. The proposal put forward by a fellow Member is one of the options, we will support it, the other option, if this is not accepted, remains for us, Mr Germić, that we will vote on the amendment and see what the outcome will be. I appeal to the Minister for the last time because I have this opportunity, as well as to fellow Members and Members, to accept at least one of these two proposals, because it is not necessarily necessary for vague solutions to become in the face of many of the fears that arise among the affected to the content of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. We are voting on the proposal put forward by Mr Germić. I note that 72 Members and Members voted, 27 to 43. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that Mr Germić's proposal has not been accepted. Therefore, we will continue to decide on individual amendments tabled. We are voting on the amendment of the LDS Group of Members and the amendment of the same content of the DeSUS Group of Members to Article 16. Mrs. Majda Shirca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u248	Thank you very much. To prevent these corrections from being carried out by the people, when possible because of dissatisfaction, if the law is adopted in the form proposed by the Government, it is appropriate to support this solution today, as this amendment or the next amendment offers, as long as this correction does not occur, then only those who are able to pay the medicine can be healthy in the future. Indeed, this is the solution offered by the government when it endangers health, especially chronic patients. I therefore appeal that this solution be settled in law today, instead of someone else in a much more expensive and demanding way.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u250	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Social Democrats would have tabled an amendment to Article 16 to such content as these two if the two amendments had not already been tabled. Given that there are two identical amendments, one of which is the amendment of the opposition and the other coalition parties, which, by the way, consists of half of doctors, would suggest that there is a need for the amendment to be adopted. In addition to all that the distinguished Chairman of the Health Committee has said in his procedural proposal to postpone the decision on the law, I am adding another disrespect that the distinguished Minister has not heard due to his absence. The proposed decision is inconsistent with the resolution on the national programme for equal opportunities between women and men because it does not achieve that specific objective, which speaks of the need to ensure free contraception in women's reproductive health. And I think that this resolution has been given by this government for consideration and adoption, that we have a ministry or should have a coordinator or coordinator for equal opportunities, and that the minister can still swing with his hands. At least what I think is worth telling me is ethically controversial for his explanation that it is necessary to charge or obtain funds from a group of comparable medicines in order to be able to receive medicines from another group of patients. And that's an argument that's unacceptable to me. One sick person at the expense of another sick person to make such a marriage decision. It is perfectly clear that we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u251	Time's up. Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The amendment, which improves bad marriage, I will gladly support solutions in terms of the abstract notion of comparable drugs. The psychological effect and confidence in the medicine are also extremely important for the patient to be treated. It is primarily a sin for a chronic patient to take a medicine that helps him or a medicine that he firmly believes is helpful and helpful to him. But even more sin is if we do force the profession for a simple reason - money in the health treasury. Most who will obviously agree with this solution, which is not good if, for example, you take Lasix or Oedemide for water separation, but probably would never agree with the solution to serve Laška instead of Union, and vice versa, if one of the options is more cost-effective or if the innkeeper has a larger margin in one of the options. That's what this is all about. Today we were in Kranj for the opening of a health home. That's where he is. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Mr Vice President, I ask you to stop counting the time for the auditorium to calm down a little.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u254	Thank you so much for your help. Today, when we were in Kranj at the opening of a health home, one of the crowd’s impelled speakers said that it was nice to live long and healthy, but once sick, it was a mercy to die quickly. I hope this comparability doesn't go that way.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u256	Thank you so much for saying that. In Slovenia we spend over 60 billion on medicines at annual level. And at this point, I absolutely agree with the Minister of Health that something will certainly have to be done in the coming years and also saved. However, I do not agree with the secret way in which this is done, without a wider public hearing, without the involvement of the professional public, doctors, patients and pharmacists, in which news, represented by comparable medicines, has been brought into this law. Of course, it is already questionable whether it is necessary to talk about comparable drugs in this law. Our assessment is that it would be better to settle this in the Health and Insurance Act, which is currently open. In this respect, we believe that this should be stopped, that the amendment to delete these comparable medicinal products should be supported, and that the issue of the introduction of comparable medicinal products should be widely addressed immediately. It is urgent or not necessary, some European countries have been mentioned, many do not have it, and they also have different ways of saving. In doing so, I also find it worth noting that for interchangeable medicinal products, there are products that are exactly the same and where they would hit the pocket of the pharmaceutical profits, while for comparable medicinal products there are completely different things, different molecular structures, different substances, and the effects would mainly be on the patient's pockets. Therefore, savings in interchangeable and comparable medicinal products are not the same. The effects of interchangeable medicinal products are good and have been [[End warning sign]] Measured, medicines have been cheap and, in this sense, there is no way to compare both stories.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u257	The time for discussion is up. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Well, I would just like to reiterate once again that Members of the DeSUS Group support the amendment, our amendment and the one that is identical. According to my behaviour, there was enough support between some coalition Members half an hour ago for this amendment to be voted on, but I'm not sure. If those who offer the amendment gain consensus in this way, they will stone those who are willing to support them so that this consensus will last for a long time. So please stop discussing, and perhaps the amendment will be really supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor. Mr. Squeakle. I'm sorry, I didn't order a break. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u260	Thank you very much. I already checked in before Mr. Rezman said that. You know, Mr Rezman and the others, it's like we say what we close the National Assembly and let's get out of here, and someone else will decide for the sake of the Slovenes and the Slovenes. I would suggest that you support this amendment. Why would I suggest that? I would suggest this because when Mr Germič proposed the suspension of the Rules of Procedure on behalf of the parliamentary group earlier today on the basis of Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, he suggested that you get to know this as a ruling coalition, what it means to reject this amendment or the DeSUS Amendment. Here we are, gentlemen, simply to explain, unlike other European countries mentioned by Mr Minister, Sweden, in Slovenia we do not have independent agencies to come to this National Assembly, what it is like to allocate rights to such or other medicines. Therefore, it is not possible to save in the healthcare system at the expense of patients as proposed in this law. It's just not possible. You will likely find that out for yourself if you adopt this law. Today we just wanted to warn and use all the business options to take the time not to make that decision today, you have rejected it. I suggest you have a retrial now, confirm this or the next amendment, and the matter will be much easier. Otherwise, we'll meet at the referendum boxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u261	Thank you very much. A replica? There's no replica. Please. Here you go, please. Was it previously on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u262	It was earlier on behalf of the Group of Members, as I have said, but I would now like to say in my own name that I still have the hope of voting for the amendment. If the opposition doesn't convince me it's pointless.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u263	Thank you very much. We're voting. I note that 71 Members and Members voted, and I would like to ask if you would allow me to read, 71 Members and Members voted, 62 votes against 5. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 68. We're voting. 71 Members and Members voted in favour of 70, against no one. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 75. We're voting. I note that there have been 70 votes in favour of Members and Members of Parliament, 69 against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted. We are voting on the amendment of Article 79 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. I note that 72 Members and Members voted for 29 to 39. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We vote on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 79. Yes, Mr. Germich, an explanation of vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u264	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I would like, as was supported by the amendment to Article 16, to receive the support of this amendment to Article 79. Therefore, already supporting the amendment to Article 16 suggests that many of the arguments that the government and then the ministry have advocated in this law have been discussed and, of course, also in the discussion until the end then justified by the way that the amendment was adopted. In fact, we are justifying this amendment to ensure maximum security once certain medicines are sold in specialised shops. I would remind you here again of the individual effects of medicines that will be available in free circulation, and would also remind you of the fact that the Minister has repeated today at least twice. This means that we Slovenians are wasteful in the use of medicines. With this amendment to Article 79 of the LDS, we are actually complementing the amendment adopted by the Committee, which, of course, raises any question of doubt as to whether transparency and accuracy of the possible different interpretations of this provision will be ensured. In order to avoid the diversity of interpretation of this provision, we would like you to accept this amendment, because of the effects which could be negative, this amendment actually dispels any doubt about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u266	In particular, I have never advocated the use of medicines, even those without a prescription, on the so-called free market, and that they are accessible substantially easier and elsewhere, not only in pharmacies. However, the decision is different and I believe it is necessary to specify it more clearly or to prevent any adverse effects arising from ignorance or because of the over-comprehensibility and accessibility of these medicinal products. See, even when advertising medicines that can be advertised by manufacturers without a prescription, we always listen to what is known: read the package leaflet carefully before use, or any side effects, or contact your pharmacist or doctor. These are some preventive logics that are at work and this amendment offers some options where those who are not familiar with the functioning and consequences of certain medicines on his body could avoid such, very harmful, consequences. It is important to be very careful and very precise about what we place on shelves that are not pharmacy shelves, where there are people who can advise and precisely because they are trained to do so, to say what it does. That's why I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u268	Thank you very much. I would just like to warn you, colleagues and colleagues, that this amendment, in a slightly softer way, still provides greater security in determining a range of medicines that can be sold in specialised shops outside pharmacies. And we all have a responsibility before the Slovenes and Slovenians who will be able to experience very severe traumas when there is an overdose, poisoning or suicide, even with possible combinations of medicines that this body will not, as stated here, seriously scrutinize. In fact, as is now the case in Article 79, paragraph 4, it can be understood that the pharmacovigilance and toxicogylan profiles are acceptable, while the LDS Club Members' amendment provides that it must ensure that these substances do not include evidence-based data on serious adverse effects of clinically relevant interactions with other substances, including alcohol, believe me, and absolute contraindications. Which means that at least partially we have protected potential users of medicines purchased in specialized stores from the abuse of medicines that may be unconscious, unconscious or conscious. That's why I'm warning you, I think we need to take this responsibility. Those who vote against this amendment take responsibility for the people in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u269	Thank you very much. We're voting. Of the 70 Members and Members present, 30 votes to 38. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 81. We're voting. There were 67 votes in favour and 59 in favour against 2. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are voting on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 91. We're voting. The vote was taken by 70 Members and Members, 62 votes to 1. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 93. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 1. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 98. We're voting. Of the 67 Members and Members present, 60 votes against 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the first amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 101. We're voting. 65 Members and Members voted for 59, against 1. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the first amendment to Article 101 has been adopted. We are voting on the second amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 101. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 11. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the first amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 102. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the second amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 102. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 16. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 16.]] This concludes our decision on the amendments. I give the floor to the bill-maker, Mr Minister Brucan. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u270	Thank you so much for saying that. Now, as a motioner, I propose that, under Article 138, the first paragraph of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we proceed to the third reading of this Act at this meeting and then, of course, by voting, we conclude this debate and the necessary process of adopting the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u271	Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, on the basis of paragraph 1 of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 18. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the bill on Thursday, 9 February 2006, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. I thank Mr Minister and Mr Director. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - second reading of the proposal for a law on the participation of employees in the company's profits and on the ownership of employees. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. "The proposal for a law on the participation of employees in the company's profits and ownership of employees is not suitable for further consideration." Here you go, Mr. Potch. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u272	Thank you very much. I am not going to explain in a broad sense, because we all know what this is about, because for the second time in this national council we are considering the proposal for a law on the participation of employees in the company's profits and ownership. Our aim is to increase the motivation of workers in order to ensure the shared responsibility of work and capital in societies, in order to ensure the possibility of increasing efficiency of management, which are all, I am firmly convinced, our common objectives in the National Assembly and also in all parliamentary parties. Individual shortcomings that the law may have can be addressed in the course of adoption. The law was explicitly supported in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, explicitly supported by trade unions, and explicitly supported by the Chamber of Commerce. The government says that the adoption of such a law is an integral part of its programme, including a coalition contract, and it is also envisaged to address such solutions in the Economic and Social Reform Programme. There is no reason for us not to adopt it today, and I propose that, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members, we reject and approach the proposal put forward by the Home Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Given that I am the first to be signed under this bill, I will object to the decision of the labour force to assess that this law is inappropriate for further consideration. I am sure that in the second reading, the substantive treatment of the parent body could be supplemented by this law in order to address most of the shortcomings that some have pointed out. It is true, however, that this time we did not receive opinions on this law by individuals, not by civil society, nor by the Chamber of Commerce, and Dezap did not define himself at this time, nor did the Union, because they were determined by the law that was discussed in September at the meeting of the National Assembly and that they were in principle all in favour of the adoption of this law. The union has also repeatedly stressed that this would be good. This is also enshrined in the Social Agreement, but the matter was not adopted at the time. I'm counting on it to mature slowly, and it would be good to reject this conclusion of the parent's working body. There were many arguments for this. Above all, there were arguments in the debate that took place last year, why we need this law. In fact, a fundamental explanation of opposition to this law has not even been heard at the time or today in the views of the sent groups, except one who has specifically spoken of this law as bad. I propose that we reject the proposed decision and allow for a discussion, a substantive debate on the working body. I will therefore vote against the decision proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-01-31-SDZ4-Redna-13.ana.u275	Thank you very much. We're voting. I note that from the 68 members present, 38 votes against 28. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 13th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night.
