ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Izredna-20.ana.u1	Members and Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I begin my 20th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which was convened on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Mr Samo Bevk, Dr Slavko Gaber, Janko Weber, Miran Jerič, Aurelio Juri, Roberto Battelli and Breda Pecan. I'm guessing Mr. Only Bevk is present. [[I read it like it was written.]] We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 20th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting on 12 July 2006. I have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda, so we are moving on to a decision on the agenda. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus as necessary. Mr. Pache, procedurally? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Izredna-20.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! The President of the National Assembly was requested by a group of Members after this so-called extraordinary meeting. The explanation given to the President of the National Assembly among the reasons for the convening of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly states: "With this amendment, the decision is amended on the proposal of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS members of the Committee on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finances, from 6 to 7 seats, with an additional seat belonging to the Slovenian People's Party Group. The following reads: "This amendment is entirely in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 33 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly." From this place, Mr. Chairman, I ask you, what does "all" mean? We also have a "not entirely", "partly entirely" or something like that, because at least in the framework of the parliamentary group that I am representing at this point, "fully" means, if we are already accepting this to take account of the whole fourth paragraph of Article 33. And allow me to read these fourth paragraphs to you and to introduce you to him, at least a large part of the Members. "When determining the number of members in all working bodies belonging to each parliamentary group, the College shall take account of the size, in brackets [[Number of members]] individual parliamentary groups, but taking into account the relationship between members of the ruling coalition and members of the opposition when determining the positions in the individual working body." And now the most important, last paragraph: "Every sending group shall normally be provided at least one place in each working body." Ladies and ladies of the Members, and above all you who have requested the references to this extraordinary meeting, may I remind you from this place that the Group of the Slovenian National Party does not yet belong to this representation as defined in the last sentence of Article 33(4). The national party shall not have an agent in all working bodies. And if we take into account the explanation or the reasons given by the ruling Members that it is entirely, I stress, entirely in accordance with Article 33, paragraph 4, from this point of view, that this is not the case. We expect in such a case that instead of dividing the working bodies among the customers you already have, you first divide them, representation, among those who do not yet have your representative in this working body. In the face of the situation - so we all know what this is about - the procurement procedures - I inform you that the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary groups have not been invited by anyone to give their member the condition set out in the fourth paragraph, in particular the last sentence of Article 33 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. From this place, I also have to be so correct, I also thank my colleague, Toneto Rope, who pointed this matter out in college. [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] However, gentlemen and gentlemen, the reasons given by the parliamentary groups requiring today's convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly are wrong. The National Party's emissary group shall not hold a session; and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Izredna-20.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I would hardly answer for the things that others write in the letter of the SDS. The SDS, when it submitted this request, was their record, so I cannot comment on this record and their words as chairman. At the same time, I tell you that this decision on the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly was adopted at a meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly. And I think that if this note were to be made, this note should be given. This was intended, however, as a procedural question, although this was a substantive matter, not a procedural one. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle. There's no debate. It's a procedural question, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Izredna-20.ana.u4	Mr President, you are holding a meeting, you are "opening" an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I cannot address my question to the President of the National Assembly because he is currently a Member. You are in charge of the meeting and I ask you: Since when is the practice in the National Assembly that a letter which does not hold, signed by some political parties, is the basis and is sufficiently credible after their assessment of the document, while at any time, Mr President, you can now verify that it does not adhere to the statement on the grounds for calling this meeting to be fully or again quoting this part of the reference, "is entirely in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Rule 33 of the Rules of Procedure." That is not true, Mr President, I know that today's political decision will be one that corresponds to the political majority. However, please confirm for the record that at least you do not hold to the reasons stated by the ruling parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Izredna-20.ana.u5	Once again, I would like to tell you that the issue was of a substantive nature, not procedural. You did not propose what to do, nor did you talk about the content of the request or the requirement of a certain number of Members. And once again, I remind you that I cannot give you the opportunity to discuss what has already been concluded and what has been put on the agenda. By the rules of procedure, Mr Pece - I hope you know him too - and I cannot give you another word for discussion. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Izredna-20.ana.u6	Chairman, procedurally. Of course, I want to correct you first in a statement that was incorrect. Today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly was convened by the President of the National Assembly without a decision by the College of the National Assembly. He called it upon the Members of the National Assembly, in accordance with that paragraph, which states that, when at least a quarter of the Members so require, the President shall convene a meeting within 15 days. It is true that Mr President of the National Assembly could consult the College whether it is necessary, as if we were in an emergency, to correct the number of members on a committee. It would be even more correct for the President of the National Assembly to examine, if not the other, the facts set out in the request for an extraordinary meeting. And at the very least, he returned the request of the Members of the ruling coalition, because what you are saying is that the call for an extraordinary meeting is simply not true. The College of Presidents of the National Assembly, when discussing the need to increase the number of members of the Commission by reflecting the requirement set out in Rule 33 of the Rules of Procedure, simply did not take account of Article 33, paragraph 3 or 4. It would, of course, be correct for the College of the President of the National Assembly to be fully in line with paragraph 4, to include in the composition of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances a representative of the SNS Group of Members, which was originally proposed by the President, then amended, re-designed and, of course, never included in the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly and never voted. I think we all know why you're doing this, but don't be afraid, there's going to be a committee meeting tomorrow morning, and I believe, unless, of course, you change the public statement you've been making, of course, this law, which is newly written, will be supported. Mr President, please, if you can, repeat to the Slovenian public that the President of the National Assembly did not convene this extraordinary meeting on the basis of a college decision, but, at the earliest possible time, on the basis of a document which is not credible, which does not reflect the facts of the Rules of Procedure, convened, as if we were in an emergency, a meeting to reach the majority of the ruling coalition in the Supervisory Commission. And that is what we have, of course, disputed, so I say that Mr Tsukjat, together with representatives of the ruling coalition, here self-taught parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Izredna-20.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle. I'll tell you what you probably know. On the basis of the request of the number of Members, which was sufficient, the President of the National Assembly convened an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. It could be - this is his constitutional determination, in constitutional terms, and this is his right and duty. I could have consulted a colleague, but that's how he did it. Please, today is not an important debate, I have allowed you to speak to me with a procedural question, this applies to both of you, so please, we will continue, I told you, I told you what happened, so we will continue with the meeting of the National Assembly. Please, Mr. Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Izredna-20.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr President, I think there will be a proper procedural issue or proposal. You're the one who explained the call to this session. I expected Mr President to call a meeting so that we could be on the agenda on some of the substantive issues that are today instead of being in college. I therefore propose that you put to the vote the proposal to convene a college of the National Assembly before continuing to consult on the issues that have been raised today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Izredna-20.ana.u9	What you have now proposed, Mr Potrč, can only be decided by the President of the National Assembly, which cannot be decided by me or the National Assembly. Mr. President of the National Assembly, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Izredna-20.ana.u10	I think you're all making fun of the rules of procedure. I called an extraordinary meeting because this was demanded by a parliamentary group of parliamentarians, so to speak, 23 and more. I called her because she demanded it, and she demanded that they decide at the request of the LDS on the decision of the college, gentlemen. This meeting is due to the request of the LDS that the National Assembly decide again on the decision of the College. Discussions on these issues were held in college, the Rules of Procedure do not provide for a discussion or an explanation of vote, but only five minutes is available to those who requested a re-decision, which is the LDS Group of Members. Please, Presidents, give the LDS Group the opportunity to explain its request and then move on to a vote. Everything else is an abuse of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Izredna-20.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Rob, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Izredna-20.ana.u12	Thank you very much. I really don't know who's making a fool of the rules of procedure here, I'm afraid they're all together. So, if we read this Rules of Procedure, then I see it in writing that an extraordinary meeting can be convened by the President of the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government or after a college decision when it comes to matters that cannot be postponed. So we have not proposed anything that could not be postponed, which would be necessary, which would mean the end of the world for Slovenia or for anyone else. We simply proposed that this National Assembly should once again decide on one college decision, which we consider to be controversial, which is harmful, which is bad. And the fact that you have convened an extraordinary meeting is an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, because there are no substantive arguments for this, as indicated here. Indeed, the number of Members is sufficient, and that is the only thing that has been fulfilled in this proposal. You can laugh, Mr President of the National Assembly, you can make a fool of yourself further, you can carry out this task that you have here to gradually and slowly abolish this Parliament, but here we are protesting in particular that in this country this national assembly, parliamentary democracy, cannot function as it is normal, democratic and in the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Izredna-20.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Let me get this meeting started and we'll even make a deal and we'll decide on the agenda, then everything will be fine. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the agenda. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the operation of the voting of the device. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have accepted with reference. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 17. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it that the agenda of the 20th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been adopted. We're moving on to one. On the basis of the request of the group of Members that the national assembly decide on the decision of the College of Heads of State on the adoption of the Decision amending the Decision on the Determination of the Member States’ seats in the working bodies of the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and on the determination of the business groups belonging to them as presidents and vice-presidents of the working bodies of the State assembly. At its 69th meeting, on 7 July 2006, the College of Presidents adopted a decision amending the decision setting out the number of seats of Member groups in the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and determining the groups of Members belonging to them as Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. After a five-day term of office, the College is opposed by a group of eighteen Members, with the first signed mags. Milan M. Szviklom requested that, pursuant to paragraph 10 of Rule 21 of the Rules of Procedure, the College decide on the decision of the national assembly. With regard to the request for a decision of the College to be taken by the National Assembly, I give the floor to the representative of the applicants of the request. You have 5 minutes. I would also say that there is no discussion and no explanation of vote on this request.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Izredna-20.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At the Liberal Democratic Club of Slovenia, we decided to propose to the National Assembly that it decide again to decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly. This is the conclusion of a college which substantially amends the composition of the Committee for Budgetary Control and other public finances. In the LDS, we are convinced that this is a proposal which is bad, which is unnecessary and which is harmful. It therefore establishes a coalition majority in a commission that plays an extremely important role in the public finances system in Slovenia, which plays an extremely important role in controlling and controlling the functioning of the public finances system, and, of course, also the position and role of the executive authority in the public finances system. Therefore, it is normal, and it is therefore expected that in such a commission, the opposition is adequately involved in such control, that it is active and that it also has an appropriate role to play. If not, there's no control, if there's no control. So, with this decision, which is now proposed, and with this majority, with the government majority, who will now control the government majority and the government, this measure of control, this measure of control, as it has been ensured so far, is somehow lifted. I would like to point out to all Members and Members that such a majority has been established in Slovenian democratic practice, since 2000 the opposition had an appropriate majority in the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. It had the right majority, which is interesting, even at the beginning of this mandate, even with your majority, and you have also voted and respected this custom, this tradition democratically, which we had in Slovenia. With what you will do today, of course, I hope not, but I am afraid that there is not much hope, in fact, after you have abolished the anti-corruption commission, after you dismantled the State Audit Commission, when you dismantled the money laundering office in an appropriate manner, you will also terminate the budget and other public finances monitoring commission; a commission that controls only current, those flows for 3,000 billion Slovenian Tolars. For there is so much going on at the annual level that I am not talking about all other activities related to the state's property and all other activities directly related to the country. At the parliamentary club, we do not think that such a solution is really good. In order to consider the proposal of the Slovenian National Party, the fact that they also have members, and to consider also the proposal proposed by the Head of the SLS Group to the College, he then changed his mind. He first suggested that all parliamentary parties should have one member on the monitoring committee, and apparently then the coalition changed its mind and this proposal never went forward at all. This, of course, is not good in our view. Let me point out once again that, according to the Rules of Procedure, as we read it, there were no compelling reasons for the extraordinary meeting to be an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, that the only condition for this extraordinary meeting was the collection of signatures. But all the other reasons in this Rules of Procedure are gone and gone. Therefore, it could be removed from this Rules of Procedure and only if the number of Members is sufficient, then this National Assembly can do whatever it wants and whatever it takes for the ruling coalition. It is even more absurd that you have called this extraordinary meeting because of the so-called non-admission of the law on the revision of public contracts and because of the path of the position to be taken on board. Once again, the Commission has taken a decision at its previous meeting, decided not to support the law on the revision of public contracts, and the consequence of this decision is that the coalition has reconsidered and drafted a relatively good amendment. The amendment to be adopted by the Commission tomorrow and the amendment to be adopted by the National Assembly. So if it were your opinion, we would have a different commission, we would have passed a law on the revision of a public order, a law that would be bad, as the representative of the ruling coalition said. Let me sum up: there is no reason for an extraordinary meeting, there is no reason for changing the composition of the Commission and there are many reasons for us to change the decision of the College. Let's do it!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Izredna-20.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Pache. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Izredna-20.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. My procedural question or proposal will consist of many parts. First part: Mr President, on the basis of time, did you give the floor to the representative of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia? First question. He was specifically invited to do so, and this has not yet happened, but it is true that the President of the National Assembly said so, but that cannot be the reason why the representative of Liberal Democracy received the floor at the hearing of the National Assembly. If you look at the script, you'll see that it's not expected at all. The other thing I would like to point out is that today we are talking about a number of amendments to the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. Ladies and gentlemen, isn't it funny that ruling parties will control themselves, but isn't that contrary to the supervisory role or the supervisory function? Isn't it always the one who controls someone's supervisory functions? I think that in Slovenia and the former country of SFRJ, we have gone through that phase of control of ourselves and left control of ourselves to no one else. I see the discomfort of Mr. Pojbič and similar members of the ruling party, but I'm sorry, hands on hearts, that's a little funny. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Izredna-20.ana.u17	Mr. Pache, please, I'd like to tell you that I've already given you two words as a procedural procedure before. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Izredna-20.ana.u18	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to introduce you to a procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Izredna-20.ana.u19	Please, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Izredna-20.ana.u20	And given that - yes, I have three minutes, Mr. Vice President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Izredna-20.ana.u21	No, but, I mean, you were talking about something else right now, not procedural. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Izredna-20.ana.u22	No, no, no. If you'd listened to the content, you'd know what I'm talking about. And since we estimate that the decision of the College is contrary to Article 33 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will require a 10-minute recess before the vote in the National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-12-SDZ4-Izredna-20.ana.u23	I'll be brief. That's not possible under the rules of procedure. We're moving on to decision-making. I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt a decision amending the decision on the number of seats of the members of the working groups of the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and on the establishment of the members of the seats of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the national assembly." We're voting. The vote is under way. I note that of the 72 members present, 43 votes in favour, 27 against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the council has taken a decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 20th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
