ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear Members and honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 19th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I inform you that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Matjaž Han from 6 p.m. on, Miran Jerič, Alojz Posedel, Jakob Presečnik, Janko Weber, Milenko Ziherl from 2 p.m. and Miro Friday from 2 p.m. on. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cobile Lypics, Urgent Procedure. I would like to inform you that a total time of 3 hours and 45 minutes is foreseen for this debate. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Dr. Jelka Pirkovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, good morning! The government's got big plans with Kobalna Lipica. These plans are presented and defined in the programme for the protection and development of the Leipzig cobalt recently adopted by the Government. [[Technical problems with the sound system.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u3	Allow me, Dr. Jelka Pirkovich, the technical services will see if they can sound a little stronger. I ask that time for the government to stop. Please be patient for a few minutes. I've been informed that the sound system is fine. That's why I'm asking you, Mrs. Jelka Pirkovich, if you can speak louder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u4	There you go. Is that gonna be better? Good. Excuse me! In short, in the programme of protection and development, Kobile Lipica wrote that the kobile room will soon become a top-level original kobile lipicans and a cultural monument that will be attractive to visitors from home and abroad with its distinctiveness, attractiveness, orderliness, accessibility and programmes linked to Lipica. Moreover, the Kobile Lipica must become a symbol of Slovenia, our trademark. To achieve this, there is a lot to be done. For the last ten years, I'm afraid that's not what happened. Since the entry into force of the 1996 Kobile Lipica Law, we have witnessed the growing of pastures, the deterioration of cultural heritage in the protected area, the insufficient care of horses, the loss of the visibility of the Lipica cobile plant, the deterioration and uninterest of the Lipica public programme, and, consequently, the decline in the number of visitors. The responsibility of the government as the founder of a public institution is extremely high in this area. When we decided how to proceed, we weighed two options. The first option, which has somehow been backed up by the government so far, was to identify all programmes that do not belong to the original activity, in particular those that are chronic producers of financial deficits from the protected area. Leipzig would thus become only an agricultural property that takes care of genetic material and may still produce horses for protocol purposes. This way, of course, leads to Lipica becoming a closed area. The damage to such activity is, of course, that two thirds of the 200 employees should be forgiven after our analysis and, what is not said, the number of horses should be drastically reduced. As we know, it's in Pibr, in a sister's masonry that produces, if I say so ill, horses for the Vienna Riding School, they line 200 horses and still operate with loss. With us, of course, if we also reduce the accessibility to the cobial and cobial programmes, we should go into at least such a reduction in the number of herds, if not larger. The second option is, of course, defined in the protection and development programme and is based on lipican, on identifying the cultural and development potentials offered by this protected area. The Lipicans are at the core of our efforts. It is necessary to take care of their living space, the cultural heritage that is linked to the Lipican. At the same time, of course, allow for the development of those complementary activities that have settled in the Kobenica Lipica since the 1970s and 1980s, but that do not interfere with basic activities and allow them to develop to a higher level of quality. Therefore, the necessity is also for us to change the law on kobile Lipica, as the current law has proved to be one of the generators of bad conditions. The starting point that the drafters had in preparing the amendments is that it is imperative to preserve all the positive achievements of the existing law, that is, the extent of the protected area that is not changing, as opposed to the proposals in previous mandates that have proposed for us to drastically reduce the insurance area. Preservation of all provisions defining what is the subject of legal protection. It is, a herd of horses, pastures, meadows as a cultural landscape, building heritage and artistic heritage in the form of the August Montenegro Gallery. We maintain state ownership of all assets, state ownership in the insurance area is insurmountable, we maintain public service in the insurance area, and the state continues to provide the founder of the public service, guaranteeing the financing of the basic public service. More. We're spreading protection through a bill. The impact area, which is already set at about a bad year by a government decision, is subject to the possibility of the State exercising a pre-emptive right in the sale of land in an influential area, allowing additional areas to be obtained for the horse. We are also expanding the public service to manage the protected area. This is not regulated by the law so far. The Public Service does not have the authority to manage the protected area. And we are proposing that some of the incomprehensible provisions, for example, now include the organisation of sports events among the public service, which we can interpret as a public service tournament. This is now limited to organizing sports events involving horses and horses. The law brings the two essential innovations needed to enable development in this area. This is the exclusion of economic activity from the public service because we know that the biggest problem to date was that Kobilirna Lipica established one personal economic company, which receives only the property for rent, so to speak, the economic company does not in any way take over the capital share in the form of assets in the protected area. The public interest is also ensured by the exercise by the Council of Kobilarna Lipica of the powers of the partner and founder in this economic company. And another novelty is the governance plan, which is a single government document and whose component is a spatial regulation plan, which is essentially the same as the previous national location plan. The management plan thus becomes the basic programming and development document and is also the basis for the authorisation of interventions, but only for those operations clearly defined in the management plan. In this way, we are confident that a new development circle of the Lipica cobial plant will be enabled. In this area, as you are well aware, the Kobarna has enormous needs, and also expectations in the co-balancing and expectations of the general public are very great, as is evident in the large number of signatures of support received by the Prime Minister for the programme concerning Lipica. That's why I want you from the bottom of my heart, and I hope that most of you share this desire, and that you will also decide in the National Assembly and support this law, in short, that the vision that our great poet Edward Koncbek wrote in his song about the Lipicans will finally come true. Let Lipica and the Lipicans become the ravishing saddle of our spirit Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u5	I thank the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Culture for further presentation of the bill. However, the proposal under the legislative procedure was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I'm asking the chairman of the committee, mag. Grims to file a report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. At its 10th emergency meeting, on 5 July 2006, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on cobalt Lipica submitted by the Government to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia following an urgent procedure. After the opening presentation, the Committee held an extensive debate in which the red thread was, in fact, that the situation that had been dragged for many years was poor in the Kobile Lipica. The director of the Lipica cobial plant, who also attended the meeting, even talked about the agony of the cobial plant and that everything that we can do to change this must be done. From this point of view, the majority of those present, as well as the director of the co-balancing plant, supported the proposed law. The Committee on Culture, Education and Sport then adopted 9 amendments to the law and finally supported the entire text as an appropriate basis for second reading and proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the text be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u7	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Member Procedural? [[...]] Allow me, Comrade Friend, to make a procedural proposal to Ambassador Shirtz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u8	Please, Mr President, to report to the committees - I say this because it is not the first time - but an objective picture of what is happening on the parental committee has been given, not partial, because the Chair of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport is the Chairman of the National Assembly Committee of all political parties, but not just one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u9	Thank you for your warning. Given that we have received such warnings on several occasions, I pledge to raise this issue in the College of the President of the National Assembly. Until then, we have no choice but to continue to present the views of the groups. Member Srečko Friend has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. I must also attach a procedural note or proposal myself. Indeed, the report was not correct, Mr President-respected. I'm coming from Sežana. So my constituency is Séžana. And the culprit for the situation in Lipica is the state, no one but the state. There's nothing left for Lipicans but to fight with the country for oats every year. It's animal torture. Last year, I submitted a five-time intervention proposal that the government respected its own decision. 253 million were paid at a time delay of 9 months. Lipica is a brand known to the whole world. I could compare myself to successful companies, but I don't want to tell anyone that I'm not doing any commercials. We could ensure sustainable development, not just for Sezhani, Kozini, Divaci, Komnu. When Lipico was run by Sežana as a municipality - here too is my colleague Terčon, who will be able to confirm this - there was much to see in Lipica and it felt that Lipica contributed to the sustainable development of the municipality. Today Lipica is the national disgrace of the Republic of Slovenia. I am fully responsible for claiming that a model protocol facility could be used if the state wished to take care of it. This law is a list of wishes of the government, a list of wishes of those who would like to have a state golf course and meet their needs. We have no objection to the fact that there is a casino in Lipica, that there is a golf course in Lipica, yet many other things belong in Lipico, but not in the protected area. This law, a respected representative of the government, does not speak of the Lipizzans, nothing about the Lipizzans written here, it only speaks of golf. The main purpose is to build a golf course. Forgiveness to the workers with whom you fear is empty farce, that is not true. Too large a herd, please, and the national pride of Slovenia we are talking about having too many Lipicans! That's funny! But it's not funny, you make fun of yourself when you put such statements on the air. I do not know a law that could so directly and directly indicate the needs of some ruling influencers - it is not! It is not in Slovenia of this law, which is the first, first, first in Slovenia in the National Assembly - since I have been accompanying parliamentary democracy - which so strongly expresses the desire and wishes of some individuals. We in the National Party have, of course, prepared an amendment which says that in the influential area of the cultural monument no intervention is allowed to take place in the space, to carry out new activities that are directly or indirectly harmful to the monuments, and that, in fact, the detailed purpose of use in the influential area is to be determined in the municipal act, i.e. in the Act of the Municipality of Sežana, and that it must be decided by Séžana, those who live there. Please, anyone with five minutes of time is dealing with Lipica! Let Lipico run the Sejana. When Sežana had Lipica, Mate Parlov was there, or it's been a long time, and now 7 ministries are worried about this Lipica, and every year they're arguing about how they're going to provide funding. Sustainable development to ensure the development of municipalities in this area can be essentially Lipica. Real socialist sculptures, concrete, hotel sculptures, should normally be replaced with new ones that will be landscaped. In fact, Lipico offers to rich people who come to play golf, but there is no idea of it from you who so advocate golf, that golf is played by rich people, that horses ride rich, and they have nowhere to go, they have nowhere to eat, and where to sleep. Even those who work at the casino go to lunch in Séžana because they are badly cared for there. And why don't we do something that might offer more than Lipica offers today, a great picnic space for Italians, who on the vegetables, which are intended for pastures, bake steaks and dumplings, and price tourism for Italian and Polish and, of course, also German pensioners who come to the Lipico sandwich. That's Lipica today. Shame for Slovenia and, of course, shame for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u11	Thank you. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by the mag. Your Clavor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u12	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposed amendment to the Kobilna Lipica Act deals essentially with its key strategy for further business, taking into account some basic principles regarding the protection of cultural heritage, environmental protection, nature conservation and sustainable use of natural goods and the economic use of space. We are aware that it is necessary to change the conditions for the functioning of Kobilar Lipica, in a positive sense, so to improve the conditions for its activities in order to prevent the continuation of the loss in the future. With the proposed concept of solutions, we do not fully agree in our parliamentary group because we believe that more than necessary solutions that will lead to cobalan as a national cultural monument are more effective management in terms of separate public and market work operations, of course with a common relationship between owners: administration. In our Group of Members, we firmly hope that by adopting a proposal for an emergency procedure, we will still catch the envisaged drawback of funds from European funds intended to cover losses from past years and, after our assessment, takes too long. Given that Kobilirna Lipica with a 400-year tradition represents a cultural natural karst pearl, we are convinced that it is necessary to continue and take care of tradition in the future. According to our behaviour, a transparent fund management plan must first be established with all the rules and then rational management of their assets, of course with a positive business outcome. According to our assessment, the proposed solutions need to be framed with a time and financial dimension in order to make the cobalt activity what it once was. In doing so, we stress that it is the responsibility of all actors, i.e. the management, the professional management and the owner, to ensure rational management in accordance with the rules and related laws and acts. With regard to co-balancing funding, we estimate that inadvertent financing is also a case of a multi-annual negative business outcome. We believe that rational business in terms of a positive business implementation ensures the sustainable development of Lipica. In our Group of Members, we stress the need for a transparent and rational way of managing which will have effective public resources, and therefore we believe that only by such an approach can we maintain the mission of Kobilar Lipica. For the successful and faster development of the cobalt plant, it is necessary to provide such a legal basis, which is also in line with the European legal order, in order to increase its cultural and financial value annually while maintaining the national pearl permanently in the interests of Slovenia. Despite concerns about some of the solutions proposed, we decided in the parliamentary group to support the amended bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u13	Thank you, mag. Clavora. Ambassador Maria Possonec is expected to present the position of the Hungarian national community. She's not here. And Member Branko Marinič will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In fact, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are pleased that the government has prepared amendments and amendments to the Kobilana Lipica Act, especially for the reasons we have heard today and of course in the past, and I hope that today we will also adopt the proposed amendments and perhaps some amendments. In fact, the proposed changes and additions have the following objectives: to extend and improve the protection of cultural heritage, cultural monument, to ensure the sustainable conservation of the protected area in one piece, by remaining state-owned. Ensuring better conditions for the functioning of the public service, the horsemen and the protection of the heritage, introducing opportunities for more flexible operation with the protected area, ensuring a more cost-effective functioning of the public service or tourist-guest activity in the protected area. Of course, there is a major solution in the proposal for amendments and the completion of the law on cobial lipica. The protected area shall be supplemented by an influential area where an appropriate protection regime is established. In the influential area, there are also property acquired by the Kobelina Lipica in 2005, possible professional selection of horse growth up to the fourth year of age, provided that the expert committee for the annual review of the Kobelina Lipica finds that they do not meet the standards and are not suitable for further breeding; simplification of the procedures for the sale of horses and removal from the herd; simplification of the procedures for the issuance of construction sufficient for actions that support the preservation of cultural values and the activity of the public service; elimination of unreasonable provisions for the separation of the work of the parking municipality of Sežana; introduction of only the most urgent status change that ensures the direct impact of the State on the management and management, while at the same time allowing greater flexibility in the business and economy of the sale of tourist and guest services on the market. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we took the proposal for amendments and additions very seriously, so we listened to and discussed a number of proposals from various stakeholders and individuals who do not care what and what Lipica will be like tomorrow. The concern of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has sent amendments and additions to the National Assembly after a reduced procedure, also gives hope and shows the serious responsibility of this government, which has been held by the past government, regrettably, they did not care about what will happen to such an important cultural monument and horses of the Lipicans tomorrow. Of course, there are a number of letters, many of the recommendations we have received, a reflection of the actual situation, especially those reinforced by 1,500 signatures of those citizens and citizens who live directly next to the Kobilina Lipica, i.e. the protected facility. Of course, we also received and addressed a number of other press releases expressed by interested associations in this idea that the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law is not good. However, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we consider that the amendment and amendment of the law on Kobilna Lipica is good and that is why we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u15	Thank you for your position. We will listen to the position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia – Member Davorin Terčon – please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the government! So, at first, I would say that, because it was mentioned, it is already quite clear to me what we are going to adopt, which amendments and what marriages we are going to adopt. This has already been decided somewhere, and the voting machine of the ruling coalition will carry it out in a disciplined manner. But it is right to hear our concerns that you know what you will accept, and when new complications will happen, that you will have this in front of your eyes, that you will not do any more stupid things in the future. In the LDS House of Members, first of all, we regret that the law in question is being dealt with on an urgent basis. There is not a minimum need for this, since Lipica has been drowning in trouble for many years, this law could be dealt with on a regular basis, listen to all the arguments, comments and try to adopt a quality law, as changes are also needed in our opinion. We also regret that there has been no public consultation and that the professional public has not expressed its position and that in this way it would also in fact explain all the problems that are in Lipica. It seems misleading to us that the law must be adopted as a matter of urgency for the purpose of drawing on European funds. The State of Slovenia has funded all or the most urgent activity in Kobilna Lipica for many years now. On the basis of the existing law, the Ministry of Education has put forward, i.e. it has been competing on an invitation to tender for the European funds for the regulation of golf courses and the arrangements for pastures, the rehabilitation and planting of trees and the arrangements for fences and other necessary matters, which are urgently needed in Lipica. We also express concerns about the status of transformation and in essence the establishment of an economic company that will manage hospitality and tourism activities. There is already a government decision on the organisation of work in a public institution that allows such a transformation without legal change. If it needs to be changed, the government can do so at any time and therefore there is no need to change the status. In the end, we have some idea that a 100% state-owned public institution will be the 100% owner of an economic company. We wonder what such a provision is intended for. Probably just forgiving the workers and nothing else. In our view, the concern for horses and cultural heritage is a priority and a major concern of the country, which has assumed this responsibility, but not a concern for certain activities that can be complementary and comparable, such as golf course. Of course, within the framework of the existing legal regime, golf courses cannot be made under the current regime, as the protection and development programme is also contrary to the existing law and decisions taken in this regard. So let's just go around it by changing the law. Our very important comment, however, concerns the expansion of the influential area. We agree in principle with the expansion of the influential area. We have no objection to Lipica extending its territory to the karst landscape to regulate it, to cut it, to obtain hay for horses also in the wider area. After all, we have always wondered why they should import hay in Lipica, and Crassus is three quarters intact and infested. However, the influential area will expand without the consent of the local community, i.e. without the influence of the local community, as the local community has not been included in the amendment of the law. And in the influential area there are infrastructure and other facilities that can be in the future, as well as all the sectors that are being hampered by development, which I will explain later in the debate, because now is the time for me. Express [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] concerns also about the abolition of certain professional functions of the professional manager and also of the cultural heritage assistant. While this can also be addressed under the law, we are convinced that the law should also include professional care, it is said, veterinary in the field of horseradish and cultural heritage. The Club proposes to replace the management plan now envisaged [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Relaunching the Agenda for Protection and Development in order to involve the general public. But we agree with some changes such as [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Hotel Club, only 30 years old [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u17	Comrade Targeton, time!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u18	I know, I'll finish - and facilitate the sale of movable property. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u19	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the SD Group of Members. Ambassador Dushan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u20	Honorable representative of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will not support the proposed amendment of the bill on cobalt Lipica in the proposed content, because by reducing the protection regime within the Lipica cobalt, we drastically destroy the national, cultural and historical significance, which Lipica undoubtedly is. The legitimately elected government does not have the power of citizens and citizens of Slovenia to destroy such annihilation. In doing so, I must point out that the debate on the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport did not give rise to optimism in order for the majority in this National Assembly to listen to the opposition's proposals. That is why this is also the case today with the report of the Chairman of the Committee. We'll see; something can change within the week. Otherwise, in the Group of Social Democrats, we estimate that the proposal offered in this case also proves that it is yet another insufficiently deliberate and unfair move by the government and the government majority in this national assembly. Because if the applicant had a correct and good purpose, then he would not insist on an urgent procedure during summer holidays, but would listen to the proposal for a regular procedure and a public presentation of opinions, and in this way he would give the opportunity and opportunity to give his opinion and possible suggestions to anyone outside the offices of the Culture Ministry and beyond the lofty and apriorous opinion of the President of the Council of Cobilar and MEP. So obviously this rush means that there is some fear that any interested professional and layman public would offer solutions to strengthen Lipice's identity as synonymous with horseback. So that we would not only go to exclusive support for other activities, especially under the coat, which the public is trying to convince the public that tomorrow in the kobile Lipica everything will be in the best order or, as stated on the committee by the most responsible Lipica Institute, a cleaning plant will be built, water will be provided, lease contracts will be arranged and so on. None of this change of law is regulated by a priori. It is true, however, that with the proposed amendment of Articles 2, 5 and 9 of the Law, we are opening the door wide to the realization of the idea of Lipica as an elite tourist destination. The legitimacy of this idea, however, gives the unimaginable novelty in this law, this is a specific and specific way of preparing and adopting a national location plan, not as it applies to other mortals, but rather that the drafters of the plan will avoid assessing the effects on property as a cultural heritage. There will be no alternative proposals, which means that it will not be included and will not be taken into account by the public concerned, nor by the local community. It will simply happen something similar to what is already happening with regard to the programme for the protection and development of the Kobilar Lipica, when the government has already adopted and specified what, where and how much should be done for a quality European comparable golf course in Lipica. In doing so, the government did not want to listen to the professional opinion of the Institute for Cultural Heritage. And that is also the basic reason why we have before us this amendment by emergency procedure. For if the majority of experts in the state administration were compatible and would only listen to the government and, of course, also to the MEP and not express their expert opinions and suggestions, a proposal for amendments to the normal parliamentary procedure might be possible. And because that is not the case, we are prisoners of an emergency procedure, that is, prisoners of some specific interest, which is not Lipica's priority as a cultural heritage and a horseman as a pillar of this heritage, perhaps this is also an urgent and hasty one because of the European Union's nearly-presidency, as the elite of the European Union will be gathered in Slovenia several times, most of which are probably also eminent and good golfers and Slovenian hosts trying to show themselves. Let's just hope they're not disturbed by the blows or the topping of the horse's hooves. But this is far from understandable and an important reason for the reduced concern about the preservation of the cultural monument. Therefore, the proposed amendments are only "mild thirst" on the proposal for amendments to the law and the minimum that preserves Lipica as one of the pillars of Slovenian cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u21	Thank you. We continue with the presentations on the views of the groups of Members. The presentation of the position of New Slovenia will be made by Member Alojz Sok. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office, Madam Secretary-General, Members-in-Office and Members. So what is essential, which has been under discussion in the Republic of Slovenia for many years, is what we want to achieve with Lipica: whether we want to have lipicance in Lipica, namely horses, cobala and this "ergelo" which is there, whether we want to have tourism or both in Lipica. So this is a basic question and I, on behalf of New Slovenia, must find that this law that we have before us does not answer this dilemma. The problems in Lipica are many years old and the problems are, of course, to be solved, but not to accumulate, and in this direction this separation into economic work, is said to work on the principle of an economic society, and we welcome only the cobalt in Nova Slovenija, especially because it is in the past, and it is still happening, the money from Lipica has been flowing from the cobalarium, which has been mainly maintained by the state through its budget, to the economy, and it is necessary to do so, and this law follows that objective. Of course, on behalf of New Slovenia, I would like to say that Lipica is known through horses. More than 400 years ago, not by chance, but with certain purposes in this part of Crassus began to develop a horse named Lipican. I think you know that it is a cross between different horses from all over the world and with these crosses they then came to some very resilient species known for their resistance and, of course, at that time horses used from military purposes to work and, of course, this school of riding, either Vienna or ours, Lipican. Of course, things have changed at the moment. We don't need horses for the army anymore, and we don't need horses for work. Now, of course, this has been transformed into a natural cultural monument. And if we want to keep this natural cultural monument going, of course, the state will have to provide the cobly needed funds. I've heard here from the Ministry's representative that horses are too many. I don't know if that's what the experts said. So if we want to have these, I don't know, a couple of horse lines that are in Lipica, then I'm also wondering as a veterinarian if it's possible to compare that to Pibro. I don't think that we can actually reduce the number of horses, but then it will be difficult to contain all the lines that Lipica has today and which also gave Lipica the right to keep her native books for Lipica. This must be acknowledged that this has been achieved and that this is how Lipica today, next to Pibra and in addition to the European LIF, has this right and is doing so. If we want to have both the number of horses that the state will have to decide if this is the number, I don't know which is in the law, the law, then we will also have to provide the appropriate agricultural areas so that these horses - of course, I agree, it is possible to feed horses to buy, this is not one problem, today we have many intact meadows all over Slovenia, we can buy it and bring it to Lipica, but then it is no longer Lipica, then let's make sure it doesn't. So, this is the basic dilemma that is being repeated to us in New Slovenia, and which has caused us to be somewhat held back in these coordinations and we are still. We support the intent of the law in solving these accumulated problems, but I say again from this city that we are aware that Lipica will need state aid, that Lipica as a cobile cannot maintain herself and will not, and that I conclude with this, is not an important number of visitors. It doesn't matter! Why we are talking about the number of visitors, whether we want to have a cultural monument or not, if we decide to do so, then we need to provide so much and so much money, no matter what the visit to Lipica will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u23	Thank you, you. A presentation of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group is yet to be made. Member, Michael Prevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Kobile Lipica is a cultural monument of national importance with its Lipicas, so we need to ensure its continued existence and successful development. It is urgent to act as soon as possible, and the agony has been dragged on for too long, and we support in the Slovenian People's Party the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cobile Lipica as a matter of urgency. In the explanation of the law, the Government's representative justified the need for an urgent procedure, the aim was to prevent the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the state and to improve the conditions for the functioning of the Lipica cobial plant. In doing so, the entire protected area of Leipzig and the protection regime, as well as the weekly ownership of it and the public service, shall be fully maintained. In addition, the law introduces an influential area defined by a decree of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia establishing the influential area of the Kobiliar Lipica and in which the State has a pre-emptive right in accordance with the rules on the protection of cultural heritage. The proposed law allows professional selection of horse growth to the fourth year of age and simplifies the procedures for the sale of horses and their removal from the herd. Procedures for the issuance of construction works are also being simplified for interventions that support the preservation of cultural values and public service activities. Status changes are being introduced to ensure the direct impact of the country on governance and management while at the same time allowing greater economic efficiency and flexibility in business. Cultural heritage is a very important segment of our culture, our nation, for the Slovenian People's Party. Historically and culturally, we have managed to establish the importance of cobalar and breeding noble animals as Slovenian specialities and Slovenian achievements. With reckless moves, we must not stop the successful continuation of rearing and these beautiful animals, but at the same time we must ensure the economic and successful operation of the cobalarium, which in itself cannot function in a viable manner. Whether the proposed solutions in marriage are successful enough will show time. However, the responsibility for solutions is, of course, primarily at the leadership of the cobial and, of course, at the department. On the Committee of the National Assembly, we have received assurances from representatives of the government that bilateral or complementary activities will not affect the basic activities of the cobial, that is, the rearing and care of the Lipicans. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the additions adopted by the Home Committee will further ensure that the purpose and further role of Kobilar Lipica remains essentially unchanged and maintained by future generations, so we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u25	Thank you. We're done. My friend Lucky Friend, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u26	Procedurally yes. Thank you very much, Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues! She was standing in Lipica, literally. The fast-track marriage will not save Lipica and the Lipicas, but it will only deepen this state of agony. Today I am very disappointed because I have heard a few lies at the expense of what good marriage entails. Lipica is not a cultural monument, you know. Lipica is a national disgrace to the Republic of Slovenia. If it were a cultural monument, the government would otherwise take care of Lipica in this mandate, not just by wanting to change the law to ensure the interests of individuals. We know who likes to play golf and what is guaranteed by this law. There will be no more building permits required for interventions to the premises.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u27	My friend, your procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u28	Yes, just a moment, Madam President. I suggest that, in fact, the government decides to withdraw the law from the procedure in a timely manner, because there is a quick breakdown of the legal matter that is not truly a matter of pride to the government. In shame rather than pride, I suggest that we decide not to deal with this law today, is taken from procedure, consideration, and that we consider what we can really do in the future with this law. There is much more to write down, the amendments that have been tabled, only partially satisfied and given, are guards that are incorporated into a law that the government did not want to see and see, a minister who is a political person to be granted permission and all the rights to issue essentially a permit for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u29	Lucky Friend, I beg you to leave the content to further debate. Your procedural proposal, I think we understand it, I also understand your concern, the concern of probably every Member, but Rule 118 of the Rules of Procedure does not allow this, Rule 118 of the Rules of Procedure I think we have understood your procedural proposal. [[..]] Thank you. Article 118 of the Rules of Procedure states that a proposal for a law may be withdrawn by the proposer or replaced by a new one, but only until the meeting of the national assembly is convened. Therefore, I cannot put your proposal to the vote. However, I believe that there will be a lot to be said about this further discussion. As we have said, we have completed the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and are moving on to a second reading, this is to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 13.7. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and an amendment by the parliamentary group or group of Members with the first-signed Davorin Terčon. I apologize, and the Group of Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? Comrade Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, first of all, let me say that my proposal is to establish an influential area in agreement with the local community. But I am also making a procedural proposal in the context of the debate, and I will now explain it to him as procedural, please. That the Government shall bring before the Member the original of the plan referred to in Article 2 of this Law. That's the first time. And a second time. To bring before the Member the professional basis prepared by the Government and the Ministry for the establishment of an influential area. Let me explain. Article 2 lists plots that are in an influential area, there are casinos, there are mountain huts, there are pumps, there are regulatory areas inside, there are quarrying, there are roads and I don't know what. The government has already established an influential area by decree, as it can do on the basis of the law on the preservation of cultural heritage. She did not consult the municipality of Sežana to the extent necessary. We still don't know how this influential area is defined, we've drawn something from the law, and we've tried to set boundaries. In order to determine the impact area, the government needs professional grounds to define the content; and the originator of this. Article 2 states at the end of the parcels that this area is specified on the digital cadastral plan and written on the topographic map in criteria 1:25000. Show him, please, because I don't know if you have him. As far as I know, you've been setting this influential area in mind, after some command that was several times larger than it is now. And when we went to look at this Official Gazette, there are digital plans for all of Slovenia, and nothing else. So, where's it drawn and where's your expertise? When you bring this in, we'll be able to discuss it further. So I'm making a procedural proposal to decide - that you will know what we're talking about - that the government will bring this because it has to. If not, she did so by dictatorship, in mind, and prevents the development of the congregation of Sežana! This law will do new damage to an influential area. In a secure area, they'll do whatever they can to make it up. There will be no more public disclosures, no more professional participation. We'll do whatever we want, even the towers, if they want! The impact area will be subject to a procedure when public bureaucrats decide what affects and does not affect the development of Lipica. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] And they're gonna keep us from developing. Therefore, procedurally, to begin with, I suggest that they bring this in if they do.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you. Comrade Tarchoon, as I know you know, the government has every opportunity to answer. That is why I also wish that the representative of the Government will answer all the questions raised during the debate, as well as your important questions. However, as it is said, the government has this right, but it does not, unfortunately, have this duty. From this place I also call on the government or the government representative to answer the questions, of course, within the time declared by the government for the debate. We continue the debate on Article 2. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. We have also tabled an amendment to this Article, in conjunction with Article 11 in the transitional provisions, in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. In fact, as we now see in the proposal, the way in which the influential area of the cultural monument of the Kobilar Lipica is defined in the proposal is, in our profound belief, reckless intervention into the content of the spatial acts and is the proponent - I must put it this way - obviously stood on my head. In fact, if the government - and the government is likely to have no professional basis - does not have a plan for the development of Lipica, on the basis of which it then wrote down dozens and dozens of plots from this influential area that would be the result of this plan and this Lipice development programme. To the extent that it is publicly known and to the extent possible to date, the government has only taken one step, namely to adopt a programme for the protection of the development of the Lipica cobialry, where it has identified the golf course. And second, which is why we have proposed an amendment to this Article. It is impossible to establish an influential area in Ljubljana at the cultural ministry, the seat of the government, without the participation of the municipality or the municipalities in which these influential areas are located. Unless, of course, after some other law, the government and the cultural ministry will move to Séžana. This is, of course, possible, and people and the local community will be able to handle it. Once again, Article 2 is, as I would say, actually linked to Article 11, because it also makes sense that it is so connected. Before this plan is not available, it cannot be legally defined, which parcels or which area is an influential area, and which government or manager of Lipice owns.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u33	Thank you. The debate was opened by Mr Cernač. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present. I have to say, I had to pinch myself twice, even though I hear what I'm hearing here today. On the one hand, the terrible concern expressed for the cultural monument of national importance and, on the other hand, the amendment that overwhelms this terrible concern. But where is the city, if at the highest level, to determine what is now laid down in the proposal for amendments to the law. I think this is where the most eminent political elite is gathered to decide. Why not? I allow this concern expressed by my colleague Terchoon that the local community is not involved. And here, in some ways, I understand that they may not want this area to be a little bit more extensive and that we might start to pursue some different local interests at the edge of the Lipica complex, which might not be the most consistent cultural monument of national importance. I'm just speculating, because maybe not, for example, I have an initiative in my hands to set up a society of friends of Lipica in 1998. I know that there was a different structure in the municipal world of Sežana than there is now. But then, even the media reported on this, I can pick some articles out of this, gentlemen, we know who it is, Mr. Boris A. Novak then launched this initiative within the framework of PEN, wrote: "...in addition to the political game of power," which is the case in Lipica, which is why nothing has happened since 1996, when the law was passed, "there is also a danger of financial swallowers who hope for easy and quick profits. Eldorado, from Ljubljana, prepared a plan to build a huge Caribbean-style amusement park just five kilometres away from Lipica." I'm talking about 1998, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no mistake. According to an article by the Caribbean in Kras or only a pigeon on the roof, the saints of the municipality of Sežana have already supported this project, where the Lipicans are supposed to melt under palm trees in the subtropical bathing paradise. And now I ask myself, what is the consequence of the amendment being tabled? The effect of the actual concern for Lipica or the consequence of the concern of some who still have such or different entrepreneurial interests in the immediate vicinity of Lipica. I don't think it's necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u35	Thank you. I have two procedural proposals? No, no, no. Then a procedural proposal from my colleague Lucky Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to remind you that we have not received an answer to what has been put forward by my colleague Terchón as a procedural proposal. President-in-Office, the Commission for Social Activities of the Council of State points out that the proposal for a law is not harmonised and does not comply with the law on the regulation of premises, as well as, in essence, the municipality of Séžana with the undersigned Mayor, Boža Marince, points out that it has not been included in the public debate. I would like to know, I would really like to know before we talk about continuing this content of this law, what are the professional bases that led the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the composition of this law. What Comrade Tarchon put up. We are limited in the discussion, so we have divided the amendments, because in time not every parliamentary group can process everything. I would ask that we define ourselves to what he has pointed out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u37	Thank you. A representative of the government also took part in the debate. Given that there are individual issues in the debate, I call on her to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. As far as the influential area is concerned, here you can at [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u39	Please, if you stay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u40	In view of the determination of an influential area, I have an open copy of the Official Journal on my computer, where the annex also accurately outlines an influential area. If you want, you can check it with me right now. As far as the professional basis for determining this influential area is concerned, I can't handle it right now, because I don't have this document on me, but you can get it on the table in a short time. The consultation with the municipality of Sežana, so last year, about a year ago, determined an influential area, was informal. However, we were aware that we had to do this because there could in fact be a disguise of certain interests on the part of the municipality and a disguise of an influential area. Thus, with several meetings in the congregation of Séžana, we have set the limit of the then influential area, and I assure you that we have not even walked an inch across that provision, where a desire to withdraw was expressed on their part. What Member Terchón proposes to reopen the government's determination of the boundaries of the influential area of the cultural monument, which is linked to the consent of the municipality, I think this is a case-by-case case that the municipality has a veto in the decision of the government, so I propose that the State Assembly act differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u41	Thank you for your answers. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants, because there are quite a lot of MEPs. I will read the order of the Members. He will be the first to receive the word of Terčon, followed by his colleague Gantar, his colleague Zagorac, his colleague Bevk, his colleague Školč and colleague Kumer. Comrade Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u42	Mr President, given that the government representative has now said that they can provide this, I suggest we stop this, and they provide - first of all, the professional basis for determining the influential area, to see how the pump was involved and what these professional bases, including quarrying, were. And secondly, we didn't put it there on the computer, and we already drew it in Sezhana. What is referred to in Article 2 - is set out in the Digital Catastrophe Plan, Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 131/03 k.o. Sežana, bazovica and so on. Bring it to us! Let's stop for ten minutes, and if they do, they can bring it! Then we'll move on. That's my procedural proposal. Mr President, 61st Rule of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, first paragraph, says: "The National Assembly cannot decide a matter on which Members have not previously been sent or given appropriate material." I don't think we can make a decision if we don't get these documents, so we can finally see what they've drawn here once.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u43	Comrade Tercheon [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u44	And as for cooperation with the congregation, which is in explanation. Mrs. Pirkovič, you have sent to the municipality of Sežana - I am a member of the municipality of Sežana and I guess I know what is going on, so take note of this - you have sent to the municipality one potato, an influential area - look at it! - 311 hectares are protected. The affected area is estimated at 1,000 hectares. You sent him a few thousand hectares to the village of Lokev, then the congregation of Sežana said - she drew it and she said it would be possible, but send us professional grounds to define the content. Because there are three quarryes inside where more than 90% of the stone was produced in Crassus, and what is more typical of Crassus than stone quarrying?Oh, my God! But you're going to ruin our business because of the incompetent care of Lipica! We have a plan to do a school of quarrying. We have a plan to build a park and a museum of quarrying. But you will be the philosopher of what we can and cannot do in an influential area! There's a caravan, there's a border crossing, there's a cabin, there's a gas station, there's a control area, there's three quarryes, there's two casinos! On what basis did you do this? Bring me those documents, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u45	Comrade Tarchoon, thank you. As you know, the business conditions for dealing with this point are met. The mother's working body has discussed the proposal of the law, the amendments are on the table, and they can still be tabled. However, I think that your implementation will be responded to by the Secretary of State, whom I ask for further clarification. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u46	Well, one more time. The digital cadastral plan just means that the plan is digital and is accessible via the global web. That's why I don't understand what you want. Paper? This is not paper, the cadastral plan is published together with the electronic form of the Official Journal. We can print you if you let me go if that's the problem. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Yes, of course, you can. Look at you! Here you go. I'm afraid I don't have a printer here. Please don't be [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] We can do this in the government room, if that's the problem. Look, another thing. What is the purpose of determining an influential area? Determining an influential area is not about preventing activities taking place in this influential area, but about assessing whether these activities will occur again. By the procedure laid down by the Environmental Protection Act, we assess the impact on cultural heritage, that is, in this case on the Kobile Lipica. Nothing else. The Environmental Protection Act shall be taken into account in this case. For an area defined as an influential area, a comprehensive assessment or environmental impact assessment should be prepared. And that's all. And let us stop blinding ourselves to any limitation of development or to the school of stonework or the elimination of existing activities from an influential area.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u47	I've seen that the State Secretary's explanation has led to a number of requests for procedural proposals. Allow me, but I ask you, in particular you, Comrade Terchoon, you claim that the difference between the documents operated by the government is a difference, which is why we would like to obtain them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u48	I was trying to understand Madam Secretary of State. We went online in digital form and got a decree. It says here that attachment is also this digital plan. We went to see this, and we saw that there was a digital cadastral plan for all of Slovenia. If that means they're going to the government room and they're going to draw on this digital plan what I've shown you, what we've already drawn, and if it's a document from the Official Journal, because it's not in the Official Journal, then that's it, and then it turns out what cowboyism is, because otherwise I can't call it. That's cowboy. They go on all plans, anyone who can go up and delete one area and say it's a document. I think we should have professional grounds for this plan to be verified, so that it should remain somewhere with the seal. It's not like that. If that is the case, then we know what this is about, Mr Vice-President, you have already said that there are all assumptions, we can proceed with the debate. They're going to bring this eventually, because they don't have another one. We know that. It's more interesting what they have on a professional basis. I'd really like to see that. And we can stop for 10 minutes and see what's on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u49	Comrade Terchón, I can take advantage of the option given to me by the last paragraph of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, which is essentially linked to your proposal or follows the same objective. Please, given that we have two government representatives present today, if one is trying to obtain information during the debate that some of the Members have taken up, we will continue to discuss this time. Procedurally. Another procedural proposal. Comrade Zagorac, tell me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u50	Not only to you - thank you for the word, however - Mr President, but also to the others present. Given that there is reasonable doubt that the documents shown to us remotely by Comrade Terchón and the documents which are an integral part of the law and that we have other Members, that there is a difference between them and that the representative of the Government has said that this matter has electronic form, I think that if she goes to the web page of the National Assembly, she will get the e-mail address of all Members and she will gladly send this electronic form to all Members that we can see. I believe that we are all so capable that we can look at our own electronic messages and see if there is a real difference between what the government has and what Comrade Terchon claims - other Members, who are not members of the LDS and not of the government, are now confused because we are faced with doubt as to who is right: whether Comrade Terchón is right or right in government. So I suggest, I don't know if the government representatives need this break, or if they can send this e-mail just from where they are to look at these things. However, it is very interesting, certainly very interesting, that all these things are not a proposal for a law that could be, and not least, it could also dissuade such procedural requirements or explain what we have now. And that's another proof that the government went to law school like, "over the thumb." So let's put Lipico in front of the local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u51	So thank you, too, for your procedural proposal. During your submission, I was informed by the Government's representative that all 90 Members and Members will receive the information they wish to receive electronically to their e-mail addresses, so we can continue the discussion at least until we get it. Member Pavel Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Allow me, Mr Vice-President, the distinguished representative of the Government, my colleague and my colleague to support this amendment, which allows the influential area to be determined in agreement with the competent municipality or the local community. As you know, there are also rules in the European Union that are recommended when declaring different forms of protected areas both in the field of nature protection and cultural heritage, close cooperation with local communities has proved that if this close cooperation is not available, such regimes are usually ineffective and create new conflicts, disputes. In fact, I do not understand why the government would object. She herself says that formal, informal arrangements are being made - this is nice and must be appreciated for her goodwill, but we want more than just goodwill, including some institutional involvement of local communities in this process. This is perfectly clear, understandable and this has, in fact, always been the case and otherwise, of course, always happened, so I think this amendment is a good one. As regards the law, as we are considering, some will recall that in this National Assembly we have considered the Scottish Caves Act, the Scottish Gulf Act, and that an integral part of the Act has always been a cartographic annex with written borders and even with those parallel parcels and a list of all parcels. I only hope that they could spell them out correctly that we will not change the law every six months because the plot was mislisted. This is not a cartographic basis, and I am sorry that the professional service was wrong here because this law is simply not suitable for consideration until this important document is attached. But since the professional services didn't respond to it, not the board, he probably missed it, we're just here today. As has been said, the digital plan is digital and can be accessed as information of a public nature on the Internet, it is certainly clear to everyone, but we are interested in the specifically written borders and the peripheral plots of this influential area. That is not what we have, and that is what we want to have, and of course it is right that we do. However, I would like to say two more words in support of this amendment. Since the secretary of state had an extraordinary time, I would say that he kind of puffed up and wept an introduction and a presentation, and for a long time I have not heard such an engrossed speech, how everything was bad before, which is perhaps also true, and how everything is now good. The former governments, if they hadn't done anything - of course they have done nothing if they hadn't done anything, the cobalt Lipices, believe me, it wouldn't have been any more, but it is. And a second time. That the silent assumption of the previous governments was that all activities would be eliminated and that the cobalt would become a closed farm. That's not true! And that's what Mrs. Secretary of State knows. That's not true. The assumption of the previous governments, unfortunately, was very similar to this assumption of this law, has always been the subject of a controversy between the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Agriculture and also partly the Ministry of Environment. And what was that assumption? All along, it has tried to sell the idea of how commercial activities will carry non-profit maintenance and development activities and so on the genetic material of Kobilar Lipica. This assumption never came true, never came true! On the contrary, money had previously been able to move from this activity to commercial activities. That is why it is necessary to find a solution that is clean, and I will not now say what this solution is, it is very similar - we may say something else about it - similar to what has already been said today, that in fact it is necessary to decide in some way what this cobile is for us, what these horses are for us and what activities can go on with us and what they are not. And in this law, in its entirety, not only in this article, I apologize, Mr Vice-President, in fact, under the company of protection of genetic material, it actually opens up space for all possible matters, especially golf courses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u53	Thank you. The next on the list of the panellists is Mr Boštjan Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, chairman. I must express myself one of the great wonders of one of my predecessors when he spoke of protected areas and he said, "Whatever you want more, he now has in his hands the highest or the highest policy." With this sentence I cannot agree with you, and I lay down on your soul whether it be the highest or the highest profession, not politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u55	Thank you. For the debate, I invite Member Sam Bevik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! First of all, I would like to say that in this debate in the National Assembly, I miss the presence of the Minister of Culture, Dr Simoniti, who is the first man of the Ministry of Culture. Although I very much appreciate Dr Jelko Pirkovic, who is a top expert in monumental protection, but today is not a discussion in particular and only on this issue, but of course I will not make a procedural proposal that the Minister should appear here, probably has any other important obligations. However, I would also like to object to the urgent procedure for the adoption of this law, since this law cannot be in the role of protecting and protecting the security and defence of the country, nor has there been any natural disaster or serious remedial effect on the functioning of our country. The financial implications cited by the Government as the reason for this urgent procedure are, of course, not mentioned in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Kobiliar Lipica, or the Ministry of Culture, or the government of the European Union's funds for the development of Kobilar Lipica, can run on the basis of the existing law, so there is no need to put this matter under the roof on the nose and overnight. That is why I would first point out to the coalition Members and Members, and above all to the Government that it does not abuse the rules of procedure of the National Assembly because of its short-term political interests. Well, and if you look at the 426-year-old history of the Kobilar Lipica, you'll see that she's been through a lot of wars, epidemics, even earthquakes, a lot of demolitions and accidents, and controversial business and monumental decisions. However, it has been preserved for more than 400 years, so I am not concerned about the physical existence of the Kobilar Lipica. Even 10 years in state ownership did not destroy the cobalt, although this was mainly the fevd of a political party. However, when considering the amendment to Article 2, I would like to say that I appeal that the amendment to Article 2 of the law proposed by the parliamentary group of Social Democrats, signed by colleague Dusan Kumer and the groups of Members with the first signed by Davorin Terčon, be adopted. In fact, they would listen to the demands of the local community of the congregation of Sežan, listen also to the International Association for Lipica, which, in the past days and months, has addressed Members and Members with several letters and has warned us of unfinished business in this law, and I think it would be right to listen to the warnings of the association, because their warnings are in place. And why would it be good to support this amendment to Article 2? In the past, interest has been expressed repeatedly that the mother Crassus, including the Kobilina Lipica or the Kobilar Lipice site, would try to list the world heritage at UNESCO. One such proposal even managed to get the government on the so-called UNESCO World Heritage List 11 years ago. In any such candidacy, however, it is essential that the local community participates, which has the first word in caring for and regulating space and caring for spatial planning, so I propose that you accept the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group and Davorin Terchón. At the end or under the line, and that. When Prime Minister Janez Janša handed over a statue of Lipica and a set of golf equipment to the American President in the White House in Washington three days ago, he made it clear that the fate of the cultural monument Kobilarna Lipica was sealed and related mainly to the development of golf. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u57	Thank you, colleague Bevk. Member Joseph Školč has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, distinguished Secretary of State and also colleagues! This amendment, proposed by Mr Terchoon and others, is important and solves some of the problems that this law does not solve. What I think we can discuss here is whether they hold to Mrs Pirkovic's claims that there is no need to have any distinction. In my opinion and in my knowledge, of course, this cannot stand, for the consequences of establishing an influential area by law are such that they will essentially affect all regimes in this area. It would be extremely unusual for the National Assembly to actually set up a safeguard regime that is not fully defined, but for the local community and the owners of the parcels to not know what this protection regime means and what restrictions they will have on their property. That is why it is imperative that these things run away like this. I don't know myself, but here Mrs Pirkovich will be able to answer easily, no cultural monument that would have such a wide range of protection belts. I don't remember anyone right now. We're allowing the possibility that it is. From this point of view, the question is, above all, why we do not have these grounds here to determine this protection zone. This in itself cannot be disputed, despite the fact that it is not always and absolutely clear what these safeguard regimes mean, and even for the signatories to the amendment, this is not disputed. However, I think it is very important that we know what we are going to take in the decision of the National Assembly, as said by our colleague Cernač, and that we refer to it. If we adopt a law where, in addition to a protected area defined as a monument, we also define a protection zone by law, but at the same time we do not tell people what this protection zone means to them, we are, in fact, depriving them. We're interfering with their rights, etc. This is something that the National Assembly should not do to use the words of your Commissioner, because it would continue the bad tradition of those predecessors of power in Slovenia who took land, property without giving fair compensation to the people. In short, these restrictions must be clear if they are brought into law, and that is not later. After all these normal procedures, the owners must know what happens here, not only that the informal procedure, as was said for the municipality, must be followed by a formal procedure, and the owners of parcels must be given the appropriate decisions to know what will happen. There is some analogy with the law on Triglav National Park, which, although it is entirely small otherwise defined, but it has its territory, this territory has, I will say, its central area, within the park are also defined specific monuments, as prescribed by the law on heritage, as within Lipica a specially defined building heritage - I think in Article 5 - as a cultural monument. At the same time as it interferes with the Triglav National Park regime and when it has been tried to determine, I will say that this wider area, which we can also call an influential area of work, needed to be expanded in the municipalities. This decomposition took place in Tolmin, this decomposition ran in Bovec, it ran in Kobarid, and it ran last time in Bohinj, where even the internal boundaries between the central area and the wider area changed. The government has played it here, it is not good, the National Assembly cannot support it and it is not really what Mrs Pirkovic says it is not necessary. This is absolutely necessary because the intervention is ultimately also in the property rights of the people who have these parcels listed here. It is also necessary not only to have access to electronic records, but also to have maps drawn up under the Environmental Protection Act on appropriate criteria. That is not the case today, Mr Vice-President, and from this title, I will say, on the surface, your conclusion that all the conditions for decision-making are met. But you don't have a choice, because the president of the National Assembly has found that it's enough if we have a report of the mother's working body. On the working body, I apologize, unfortunately there was no serious debate because people were in a hurry, God knows where and they were more interested in adopting the law as soon as possible as they could discuss the problems it brings and the conditions necessary for this adoption.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u59	Thank you for your discussion. Mr Školč, I will add once again that all the conditions under the Rules of Procedure are formally met for consideration at the meeting of the National Assembly, while the second is the issue of the substantive fulfilment of the conditions, but, as it is said, we are continuing the debate. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I would like once again to stop at this amendment to Article 2, which would point out once again that this amendment, in particular with regard to the participation of the local community, expresses a European norm, which also applies to the management of these spatial matters. And last but not least, whether it's hygienic, it's not fair that if we accept this plan of an influential area today, I've taken the time, but I've counted a little bit, I've come to 1327 plots, so that it's also numerous -- but it's not fair that we know what we're accepting today, and it's also fair that those to whom we're going to intervene in this right to know that today in the National Assembly will somehow overthrow the regime on their property. I would therefore like to point out once again that it is more appropriate to continue with the current method of determining the impact area under which the Government, under the law on the protection of cultural heritage, in cooperation with the local community, provides this across the board. And once again to Article 11 - a prerequisite that you can even determine that, once again, you need some development plan, some kind of development plan for Lipice. And look, someone's making a fool of us today, too. I am online because you talk a lot about the Internet, I drew from the previous text, namely the proposal for a decision on changes to the decision of the organisation and the work of the public office of Kobilarna Lipica, prepared by the cultural ministry. Listen, today we're talking about amending the law, and here in here before yesterday was a proposal to change the organization, systematization and so on in the Kobilarna Lipica office. 11.7. original text from the Ministry of Culture. I think someone with us is "heca." If we already have an emergency procedure, but he couldn't wait three days, give it to me, not someone who's totally messing with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u61	Thank you. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. So in the beginning, I will say and promise that I will not violate any more of the rules of procedure than some have before me, but I will adhere strictly to what is envisaged. But I'm going to start with what's written in one of the media today: "Only one thing is worse than that we're always in - that we're always against." And this is now more than an obvious example of this principle; but I will not read that sentence before it is written, but it is better for you to read it yourself. However, it is more than typical of this debate today at this point. The fact is that these demands today to stop, to find out that we don't know what we're adding, I would say: 15 years was the time to really do something in peace, and nothing was done, obviously. Now you're saying that something quick "scrolls" and that we're going to make a quick decision. It's been 15 years for you to be at peace for 15 years! But let's wait another 15 years and then we can have enough time in peace to do this? You're talking about the barn. I'm afraid it's not a real barn there, because it's gotta be real there, but it's not real, it's different. The only thing that matters in this matter is that every government - no matter what composition it was - had to provide intervention funds or some other assistance. It was a stop, it was always and it was a count. And that was the only thing that mattered. There was trouble everywhere else. You all say - those who oppose this law - that it is a matter of failure. I know partly, not as well as some of those who are from there, but I agree with you that things are failing. And lately it's time to do something. This case seems to me, I mean, this way of solving it, to separate it from two organizations. It is one that will be purely cultural, and one that will have an economic activity, because if it holds what we heard on the board, that there can't be a cleaning machine there, even though there is money, I ask you nicely, where is the environmental care in that karst terrain where all permeability and so on, but the cleaning machine can't be done or very difficult to do, because there are probably as many bots as there is in the entire rescue of Lipice that even the cleaning machine can't be done! And the next thing we could hear on the committee, because I was until the end of the committee, I didn't leave the board prematurely, and now they're saying there wasn't a possible debate there, so I stayed until the end. And that's where we heard that staff in catering are still public servants. I'm sorry, but I come from an area where tourism is very strong, and I know that this is not how it can be done, because employees have to work - not eight hours, but whatever comes, sometimes 24 hours together, it may even be in violation of labour legislation, but then I have to be so rested. So that those who are employed there in the hospitality or in any other part, this is the most evocative case, cannot really be a public servant or a civil servant, that is not the case. This is already doomed to failure, it is already doomed to loss! And, I'm sorry, after 15 years of rescue, I'm not saying that there was no intention that something could really be resolved, but it didn't work. After 15 years, there really isn't time for us to be able to do a little bit of wise-ass philosophies, but we've been looking for experts, and we've been trying to figure out these plans publicly, and we've been looking for partial numbers. The consequences are here, the loss is, the setback, even the unwillingness of employees - I will not mention again who the public servant is. All together, there is one big guarantee and a demand for state aid. And that's what every government has done. I count it a good thing, but that's probably not how it goes. We hear that the only culprit is the state. That's probably true, but if we think of the country as an institution, I wouldn't say, maybe the locals have brought in some special, specific interests that maybe they don't have anything to do with that local community at all. I agree with that, too. The result would be some sort of struggle, which is probably true; but something else is interesting. Now that there's a proposal here that at least systematically puts some things into some logical content to separate something that doesn't go together - the culture of the economy. Now it's all wrong! Now that this is about concrete action, we are, of course, against it. And I'm going to read again, "The worst part is not that we're in, but that we're always against." And that's exactly the case. The fact is that such an organisational scheme is like a kind of "tied hands go swimming". You probably can't. And even those who were there who were dealing with Lipica probably can't do anything else because they always have their hands tied. But I could almost say that I felt it was even someone's interest. And now there's this other amendment and all the amendments are essentially in this role - to keep everything the same. Clearly, it is the interest of the opponents - I do not say that all of them are, or perhaps you are not even aware of it, of all those who are against it, that everything is directed against nothing being done. To keep the waiters public servants and to work eight hours more. It's not about tourism that we can continue to growl. And if you hold what also seems to be someone's great interest, so that nothing can be done to even trade land, this is probably the biggest business in Slovenia right now. There are also large lands, and that is quite clear. And this is all under some cover of a cultural monument, where nothing should be done, where everything has to be protected, but the cleaning plant should not be built there, because it probably does not belong there. However, ladies and gentlemen, all over the world, the greatest cultural monuments are also in the function of an economy. The economy binds to this and those cultural monuments are being marketed. They're marketed anyway. The fact is. Now I don't know what's going on in there, or there are really picnic rooms. But if that's true, then it's really the last time to do something to stop it. It's been a while. But something has to be done, not just to say, let's wait, let's ask the experts, let's make a public declaration, and we'll go there and we'll know whether there's a picnic area or not. There's something we need to do! Or let it stay the same! If we're against it, it means it stays the same. And we're criticizing, all of us, without exception, with me at the head. We all criticize that such a situation can no longer be. For 15 years we've been looking for a concept, looking for solutions, we've been wise, we've been philosophical, we've been looking for influential areas. Some even suggested that they drive the land there, I don't know, run 30 centimeters of land there, and there'd be something else there. I mean, we were all smart, but we didn't find the right solutions. For 15 years we basically had a decomposition, a presentation of opinions, an expert debate, but the result is, as we all find, a disaster, because it obviously suits someone. I guess it suits him. It's all made in half, and golf is made in half, because it only has nine holes. Golf with 9 holes is half golf, but because it's not serious, it's for learning, which serious players it's not for. And those with something under their thumb don't go to golf like that. There's obviously damage. And that's why we need to do something right now. I don't know what's going on, so I don't have to say it again. It is necessary to set up a logical organisation that divides culturally into economic activities - these are two different activities, they have completely different requirements and they can live in co-existence. They can support each other. This is true and it is very and it is also in the world that there is an economic function attached to cultural monuments and it is also a good thing to live on. I will not support these amendments, at least under Article 2, because I think it is a function of stalling that saves nothing. He's not saving anything. It's been 15 years for us to solve this, but it didn't work out. I'm still saying that I don't have the feeling that it wasn't trying or that they were bad intentions. I will never say this, because I am sure it has been tried, but because there were obviously too many botts and it was all too complicated together, too many interests in the same organisation were connected, so that the economic work could not be at the expense of cultural and cultural work, not at the expense of economic development. So, gentlemen, I will not support this amendment, but I will end it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u63	Peace in the hall, please. My friend Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u64	I'm almost done - and I'm going to read this sentence one more time: "Only one thing is worse than always being for - that we're always against." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u65	Thank you. We continue the debate. My colleague, Davorin Terchón, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So let me start by saying, because Mr Petan said something general, I am in the past and the past - if I think of the near past - when we were the ruling party, we can say that everything was not all right in Lipica, that we would not have any doubts. The situation was such in the coalition, we were also a party to the victims of the coalition contract, there was a Febd SLS party and matters were not settled. It has to be admitted that we won't have any kind of insight. My friend Chernač was the director. He's pointing out some tropical parks. We get these projects and initiatives to the congregation a lot, the municipal council has never made a decision, as you say. My friend, I understand now why you left Lipica so quickly. Yeah, look, and very little time. I tried and had a lot of problems, including coalition, I admit, finding a co-existence of hospitality, tourism and horses or cultural monuments. Something that was written in the law, Comrade Petan, was either copied or the idea got, right from my proposals to the minister. And I don't object to the law, I don't speak at all, especially as far as moving cultural heritage is concerned, because it's easier to sell, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The club’s hotel, as far as the plan of implementation was concerned, was somewhat different, but it was also somewhat different, because the existing law was too rigid. I agree with that. As far as the congregation is concerned, we have found that it was not included in any stage of the law, nor was it properly included when you adopted a decree on the influential territory of the government. The municipality of Sežana, when she saw the trains passing by, took the decision and sent it to you. And said to include it, especially as far as the influential area is concerned, there is no voice. The emperors don't hear that far. But I will tell you that there has never been an ideal situation in Lipica, but it's been really bad since the smart guys from Kranjland came to regulate the situation. But then it is true, and since the horses on two legs have been hanging around those on four legs. [[...]] And if I've offended anyone, I'd be happy to apologize to him, but that's right, horses on two legs are hanging around those on four. So, now to the influential area, why would I - I wonder and I want you to understand what the problem is. As I said, I have always tried or found cohabitation, but if this cohabitation is not possible, then it is right: to dislocate guest activity, casino, golf out, to the second location of the municipality of Sežana and we will be just as pleased and Lipica should develop in a closed part and be a cultural monument as she wishes. And we're running into new problems instead of solving it. See, all the problems were secured in this small protected area, which is 311 hectares. It's getting simpler now, practically like I said, it's going to do whatever it takes. And secured. Lipica will prepare, the government will confirm. However, we have identified a new influential area or a new influential area that will generate new problems. We are not opposed to an influential area, we can determine a larger influential area, we will welcome Lipica to extend its cultivation areas, cultivate the karst landscape even outside, although the one inside was cultivated by digging the gardeners and also making golf with agricultural money to understand why it goes there. But this has to be done thoughtfully! And we're wondering why you put what I wrote in there. Why you have given quarryes that should not be spread, and this procedure will be such that everyone agrees, environmental impact assessments will be carried out. Why did you put in "playrooms"? And, of course, I wonder, the government has awarded a concession for the last casino after it has previously established an influential area, which is now determined by a government act! I'd like to ask you what environmental impact assessment you've made. Now there's a new casino there when you had a decree already taken! Let me tell you something else, why are we running from one problem to another and not solving the problem? Look, we've passed the Kobilana Lipica Act and we've thus protected golf, casino and the whole area. Then came those who said it didn't belong inside. And the question is, what goes inside and what doesn't. Now we've made it easy for Lipica to conduct this herself, but we've set an influential area - but how did we define it? That we've put these objects, other objects in there again, and now someone's gonna say again, what doesn't belong in there! Look what this is all about. There are now three casinos in the municipality of Sežana, one in the protected area, so, outside the protected and influential area there are no, all three are in here. So the country that gives concessions does not give any concessions - one has given, which has not yet been made, but has not, but has placed on an influential area! Then the same government will take these casinos to an influential area! Yeah, where's the logic in this? So far there was one in the protected area, then there were two that were outside the insurance area, but now that we're determining the impact, these two are in the influential area. For God's sake, there's no room for any casino in all of Crassus and all these casinos have to go to the Lipice area and then it's protected by an influential area! This is the wrong world! Do you understand what this is about? On what basis did you give this concession, if you already had an influential area, I wonder! Are you now working an influential area to give a concession inside? Or what? Or that you're gonna throw 'em out? Where's the logic? All I want is that we will find one consensus, that we will also determine this influential area and that we will set boundaries so that we do not generate new conflicts. And you don't hear it! Do you understand that this makes sense? You have the power, you vote it, but ask yourself what you're doing. The protected area was disturbed by casinos and they were talking about going out, and you're now setting up two other casinos inside that are going to be disturbed again. Whose? I don't know, one of them was from before, and one of them was given by this government -- she already knows who. That's what I'm saying. Consider, for you are obliged to rule, to lead this country by one logic and find a rational solution. But I'm sorry, these aren't rational solutions, and the proposals aren't. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The proposals are concrete, substantive, smart. We define an influential area together and leave what doesn't belong in-out so that it can develop. Are we going to destroy the quarry in Crassus or what? What are we doing?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u67	Thank you. Comrade Bajc, I can't give you, please, I can't give you a replica, given that you haven't spoken at all today, so your quote couldn't be misspoken either. I can sign you up or I can give you up - please, I'm in charge of the session! Comrade Bajc, I can put you on the list for discussion if you wish. Good. We're moving on. My friend Blacky, you have the right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, buddy, my friend Terchon, that you went to this level because you know very well why I left Lipica, and you know exactly how she did business when I left. But this thing you mentioned about this mega center doesn't have Lipica and me as the first v.d. the directors of the public office of the cobalt in 1996, but it has no connection with your municipal council. No, you said it wasn't weird that I left Lipica for this. However, since you have triggered this topic, read the documentation that I sent to you and all other colleagues on 17 December 2004, when my colleague, Mr Jelinčič, came back from the wrong data and said just as much nonsense about it. At the time I left it in 1997, Lipica was currently operating on a surplus, with state support reduced from 50 million to 30 million a year, and you, as then chief of the administrative unit, know this very well because you were aware of all this. I'd like to read one part of why he had to. Just go. Normally, the mandate ran out, he did his part, the recovery program was designed as one of the rare things that had been done, everything else that the then government should have done, and unfortunately not. The ministers were then Joseph Školč, Dr. Pavel Gantar, Mag. Mitja Gaspari and Mag. Dragon method. That was five of your former colleagues. Since you have two here, you can ask them how and what instructions they gave for voting at a board meeting of the institution, on the basis of which a new director was then elected. That's the story. I have been reported for discussion on this amendment, and I will proceed later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u69	Thank you, Comrade Blacky. We continue the debate. Comrade Gantar, I've recorded you. Look, you were mentioned as the Minister of State. If you deny it, I'll give you my word, but if you don't deny it, I won't give you my word. [[Ad in the background.]] He has a word, and he's the only one, Comrade Borut Saiovic. Here you go. [[Ad in the background.]] I'm not gonna put a replica on the replica, so you can sign up for the debate. As a matter of fact, my colleague Borut Saiovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! Today, when we talk about the law on the Kobelina Lipica and explain that it is a chronic patient, I have to tell you in the introduction: I will support the amendment to Article 2, because it includes the local public, because I think that Kraševci, blown from the storm, sometimes think more clearly and more purely than the fog-wrecked Ljubljanans. But I'll say this. As a veterinarian, I have to say that I have seen some of these mares in my life, and I must say that Lipica is not such a patient and in such poor condition as most people in this national council are trying to present today. In Lipica in the last 15 years, and in 50, if you want to say so, and in the remaining 426 years, we have achieved exactly what was intended - in Lipica today we have preserved the cultural karst landscape and we have preserved the indigenous Lipica. All these things that are blurry now, what about golf, what about hotels, what about tourism, they're not important to Lipica. We keep Lipico because of the horse and the cultural karst landscape. And I feel bad when people who should protect this landscape and this cultural monument, like Mrs Pirkovich, say there are too many horses and these landscapes there. Listen, you've ever heard someone in the world who protects cultural heritage say that cultural heritage is too much. This is simply incomprehensible and absurd. All the things we're talking about today, what's going to happen next to Lipica, whether golf or not, are of secondary importance. Golf is the one thing Lipice isn't, she can't and she won't save. Neither does mass tourism. What do the cobials in the world look like? It is a quiet, intimate space in the natural environment, which is not disturbed in most cases in the world by the crowds of tourists, nor by car grabbing, casinos, air conditioning, parking lot or picnic spaces. When we were with the agricultural committee last year in Ireland, to ensure that horses are not disturbed there, a number of objects were covered with cameras to control them from a central area, not that every five minutes a curious barn opens a creaking door and sees whether any expected lot of precise genetic lines has been born or not. And all this stuff, the cover that we think Lipica's gonna solve, it's a big deal. Lipica was and will remain a cost, and Slovenians must be aware if we are to this national pride enough to put Lipica on one side of the euro coin for this matter to cost us something. As far as golf is concerned, so is profit and economic activities related to culture. The theory that profit in this country makes it possible to do everything is, of course, unacceptable to me. If you think golf is a cure for everyone, then I ask you, you will also put it in Planica, which is also our Slovenian problem. We will build a playground in Tamar, Triglav National Park, to earn something. You will be able to place at least a small golf course at Plečnik’s protected stadium in Ljubljana to build a football field with that money. With Lipica, golf and mass tourism, it is about as if a night bar, entertainment and a public house were opened in the maternity ward. Thank you very much, and I think it didn't work out, and that's why something needs to be learned from mistakes in the past. [[Back-up advertising.]] Thank you very much. However, if you think golf is such a universal solution for everyone, then besides that in Triglav National Park and TNP, please place at least two holes for golf also in the yard of the Iskra Emeco factory in Kranj and at least one small one in the yard of the Peco factory in Tržič to maintain those urgently needed jobs where the country has a hand, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u71	Thank you. Procedurally. Comrade Jelinczych, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would suggest, Mr President, that, as far as possible, you prevent ecclatic lies in a national assembly such as Mr Cernač has consumed. For when he was still in the Slovenian People's Party, he now switched to the party for the promotion of himself, not because of the promotion of Lipica, then everything was wrong in Lipica and then, people turned against him, did not remove LDS, but people so allegedly pushed him out, because at the time the most horses were sold, at the time the genetic material was sold just so long and over and so today there were breeding holes in Lipica. I think it would make sense for Mr. Black to at least remind himself not to say anything stupid. I sometimes speak nonsense, but I speak them in private circles, and Mr. Blackach speaks them in here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u73	Comrade Blacky, you know I can't give you my word. Comrade Blacky, I will not give you my word because I know where this will lead.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u74	No, Mr. Chairman, he can't know. I have a procedure, just like everyone else in this room. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u75	Comrade Chernač, you can sign up for the debate where I will give you my word, but I will not allow the topic from the co-bathroom to spread to another subject, because I think it is a pity for our time to listen to it by all the other 90 Members. As it is said, Ambassador Maja Shirtz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u76	Today we are talking about the protection of an influential area, or the definition of an influential area, as well as a protected area. I warn you that except on paper, it is a pure farce, because as influential as the protected area, the government has already defined by adopting the 2006 and 2010 Kobilar Lipica Development Protection Programme in March 2006 and when, in fact, everything you are going to decide this evening must have been done by the government. In December last year, Mr Brejc, President of the Union, European Member, golfer and President of the Council of the Lipice Institute said that they already had local information, we do not need a building permit for the construction of golf, I quote, what was written in the media, we only need to amend the law on the kobile Lipica; and here, Mr Brejc says, "I do not expect too many obstacles, because we have an idea project on the construction of golf, we now have a multiplication or geodetic work, an implementation project is under way and there is no problem". Today, what is happening here is, of course, a scene that needs to be staged because of the fact that it is sufficient for the law, not a scratch. I would also like to remind you that as influential as the protected area is defined in the protection and development programme, that there are precise gaps, where they will be, why they will be, that the defined toilets are to be defined, that the defined wardrobe houses may not be defined any more protocol for Mr Bush if he will ever come to try this equipment. In short, everything is defined, even defined are resources from state and other resources to be identified in 2007. I look back in 2007, because 2006 is not very different. Because for 2007, the only smart, smart amount, is to target the golf course at 120 million, as it is in 2006, while there is no million for the renewal of silos, stables, apartments, no tolls for insemination plants, no tolls for additional stable capacity - no, the main money is golf. So it's not like we're going to be able to sneak around in this darkness. That is why I can quietly repeat what Mr Boris A. Novak has said, although never quoted too much recently, a few days ago - and since it has not been published enough, it makes sense for me to repeat it - that he is going to throw up when he sees this cynical brutality of politicians who, because of their own entertainment, threaten the survival of the Lipicans in their historic cradle of an old cultural monument that lasts more than 426 years, and that this yoke of gentlemen who prove their privileged status by playing golf uses all the allowed and illicit means to change this now basically a good law, I quote this gentleman. And let me remind you of something else. In this 16th century past history, there was a moment when it was reaffirmed that the economic account in the context of the breeding of Leipzig horses and horsemen did not come out. At the time of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, Franz Joseph thought about withdrawing from Lipica and abandoning this activity. At that time, however, the strategic account weighed and focused on strengthening the activity in Lipica, preserved this activity, and even more so on to develop. By the way, your concern about the cultural monument and the kobalina Lipica, which is just a cover for something else, does not go so far as to mention now in this law the mother books which, if not otherwise, Slovenia could provide the basis for keeping this ID card with us.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Branko Grimes has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. I must say that I am embarrassed to say this after all that has been said, because, in particular, colleagues from LDS from Parliament have made a dirty barn today as a free speech area, an unworthyly noble Lipicans, which should otherwise be spoken of. From the very beginning, I'm sorry, it runs in such a way that it's nothing like that. I'll explain why I'm saying this. I have to say that just a few minutes ago, I would have spoken quite differently, because when I got a list of these amendments, including the first one that is currently being said, I liked some of them very much and I wanted to suggest to my colleagues that we sit together, discuss them if they didn't support one of them. But then let's see how your debate, respected colleagues and colleagues were going on, and why I decided not to do it by any means, and I will vote against all your amendments, including what we are talking about now. Why? Do you know what you're doing today? Let's go in one order. First of all, it was given or I will start with the opening words of a colleague from LDS who began to know in LDS that everything has already been settled and will be rejected, that this is fully clear to them and that they expect and end up in the same speech two minutes after that, saying that in LDS they expect all their amendments to receive full support. Now, one of these two options will have to be decided, because only one of these two is really possible in the real world. Second. When I spoke in the introduction, I said that the red thread was in everyone, and when I spoke in all I thought of both the opposition and the position, the assessment that the situation was bad, that was the basic message of my report, which I gave orally. However, you have received a written report on the bench and it is complete, reflects all possible and such different opinions and beautifully reflects the debate. I have deliberately narrowed myself down, because if I had said everything I thought about that debate, including the work of this one, it would have been very uncomfortable if I had done this in the context of the report as chairman of the committee today, but it was even better on the committee, but more than the words of the lipican used the word golf, that very much said about this debate, instead of talking about the symbol of Slovenia about how maximumly within the limits of the actual possibilities of our country, our community allowed it to exist, even in a united Europe, and thus also promoting Slovenia, playing with emotions, wanting to make some negative propaganda, counting on the fact that some sport has a certain sign in the public, and it points out to unconsciousness, that it is even more so on the committee, and I must say that I personally regret that the debate is taking place in this way. Since I am self-limited, all I have said is how many articles have been amended, how many amendments have been adopted, and this is relevant for this debate, because that is exactly what amendments have been tabled. Whoever thinks this is the case doesn't know the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. And then what happened? Then there's the shouting and the screaming of someone who dares to speak the way he thinks in this national assembly. Some would still like to dictate what is right and how to speak in this national assembly and how not. Colleagues, none of you have anything to decide about this, nor do the colleges of the National Assembly. If someone does not like the reports that are written and are relevant to what you would like, let him see if there is something missing in there. I argue that this is very correct about the kobile Lipica, I also checked it because of some comments from the past on the work of the professional service which prepares these reports, I do not prepare them, even with the use of a magnetogram, and in fact all the essential points in the debate are well recorded inside. If I were to point out, for example, as chairman of the committee, one fact, which is also in the report, would be an immediate cry. That there was also a proposal that the law was not a suitable basis for further consideration and that we had decided on it; and you would not believe that neither one voted in favour of such a decision. Interesting, no. Then it would be a scream, yes, because we were gone, but I don't know what. Yeah, well, some of you may have gone out, but don't say that there was just a position in there, because surely there was someone else from the opposition who was involved when it was decided. So much for all these different reports and manipulation. That's how it started. Then let's move on. He denied the emergency procedure. I personally think there's a great contradiction here. If this is about the lipican as a Slovenian national symbol, and I personally agree with it, then it is necessary to act if the red thread has been in all of them, and at the board meeting and now here in the hall, that things are extremely bad, that the situation is critical. Some of you also used the word "agony" today, which we also faced at the board meeting. But if they dispute the urgent procedure of representatives of precisely those parties who were only a few years ago when they were in the government, by emergency procedure, sent a law that was only one goal, and it was even written in an explanation of the law to increase the profits of casinos, including that in Lipica, but not because of the Lipica, but because of profit, and it was by emergency procedure, you know. Please, let's take a look in the mirror. It's a serious matter here, a symbol of Slovenia, and that was the profit of those who were your, I don't know, sponsors, financiers, colleagues. It was interesting at the time in the State Council to listen to the debate, because everyone who came up said, "Yes, because the veto arguments are justified," I suggested then vetoed, "but you know, I'm sitting on the supervisory board of these casinos," and these are people who just said in the microphone, you can go look at that debate. She was very informative, even for this, present day, very interesting. Then it continued now, especially with that performance, the other performance by a colleague from the LDS, who is simply now blaming everything for the situation. They were prisoners of their coalition. I'm sorry, but who was the Prime Minister who had the most Members and thus the greatest responsibility and makes a fool out of his former colleagues, but at the same time he's making a fool out of trying to get this government to work things out. I'm not, and I'm not going to say that all things in this marriage are perfect. You have not heard me in this law at all that I would value in individual solutions, nor do I intend to do so. This is one project that the government has taken over, and I personally support this government, so I will vote for it, and I would like to help make the marriage even better, but I'm sorry, but with this way of doing your job you can't. By bringing things to where they are, by bringing them in the way they were set up here today. And so that it doesn't get too serious again, I hope they have a sense of humor, we're all going through so much together, just one case. A former opposition colleague developed the idea that the gift given by the government to President Bush in the United States today reflects the future fate of Lipica. If that is true, okay, we can agree with this, if that is true and then forgive me, but I am as a Kranjčana very afraid and I am very interested in what fate the previous government of the Brdo Castle, which lies in my congregation, in Kranj, because there is Mr Clinton, also the American President, at the height of the affair with Mrs Monica, at the top of the Impeachment as a gift of a cigar. That's how far the logic leads us. Fellows, please, let us be a little more limited and actually go in the direction of what should be the goal today, and this is to look for real solutions, possible solutions from a state that is sure, and I hope that we all finally agree, Slovenia certainly cannot be proud. Because if someone doesn't know what the situation is, please go take a personal look at the condition of Kobilar Lipica, I've been down there myself, and it's actually necessary to sort it out, however, but something has to be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u80	Now, though, I am ahead of a difficult assignment, or what scares me after this teaching speech that I have just heard. But mostly in that part, it's scary when he says, "I didn't touch the law at all, I don't care. But I support this government, and I will support everything that's in here." But that's what's known, and he didn't say anything new. It has been clear to me for a long time that a cultural monument such as Lipica is costing this country and will also stand in the future and so is it. We want to have it, we have had to support it in this way or another way with state money, and we will continue to do so in the future. Nor did I oppose a law that could fix the situation in Lipica and upgrade what could be upgraded, and did the thing transparent, transparent, clear and established mechanisms that would really make the situation more transparent there, so that they would know what is happening in horses called horses, and what is what we are protecting, and what is parallel activity, what is what is rich in cultural tourism and, I don't know, what is yet an offer. I'm not against golf either, because I'm not naive enough to dig out those nine holes that are there and make a pasture there, it would be wrong. Even against new holes up to 18 like some decent playgrounds, I have nothing. But, of course, I am very opposed to not being introduced to the National Council of Professional Foundations. I regret that the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, in haste, has overlooked that it must have professional grounds for such decisions, of course it has overlooked, because the law is by emergency procedure because it has to be adopted overnight. And that's what's wrong. Today we also find those who are not members of the committee that it would be right to see these professional bases, on what basis and for what this map is drawn. Are these professional grounds? No, these aren't professional grounds. I'm just afraid because there are a lot of experts for the border in Slovenia, for the state border, that you haven't drawn anything else on the Italian side and there will be a few more, that's all I'm afraid of. But that's all possible. I wonder if it is really possible to determine from this which surfaces are intended, which are truly the best and can be allocated to golf activities. As I said, I do not object to golfing there, I object to working with state money, I believe that through funds from European funds or donors, as it says, that you will build this out of that money, I believe, we will probably find out later through the analysis of budget spending. But I'm wondering if this first hole is six meters away from the famous golfer's living room in Crassus and it's in the interest of a Lipican who's nearby or not, which I'm interested in, which is why I should probably have a professional basis; and you don't want to present it here. It's a problem that you don't want to introduce it. Why exactly this aspect of this area, in which part you think certain activities will develop; and on this basis you could then create a judgment. It is frightening to introduce a debate in the National Assembly, Mr Petan and some others, 'who is not with us is against us', and you are against the fact that matters are being settled and so on, no. Why, if the law is in such a process as, if we have 2nd paragraph, if we have talks here about an influential area, are you talking about everything else? When I talk about an influential area, I think about all the activities that are there and that must not have a negative impact on this cultural monument and so on. And from this out, excuse me, and from this list of plots I can't create an image of what this influential area is setting up and in which part it can't be a sand digger because of golf and in which part it can't be a sand digger because of the area where horses graze or how otherwise they do their activities. That's what this is about. And are you prepared instead of Bolshevik claims or Mr. Petan's demands that it should only be as they imagined if you are not opposed and hindered? I've heard it, you know how many times, and you know how long ago. Indeed and this very, very harsh has been heard, and today this rhetoric repeats itself. Why, once again, in the fact that you missed out, I don't blame it on some emergency, in some desire to do it again, you've overlooked that in order to make such a decision, to create such a map, we need a professional basis, we need a justification, probably everyone wants to create a picture of what he's going to do here today, but no. And we are just saying that many Members have already said here, in accordance with the guidelines of the European Union, directives, legislation that is innumerable with regard to interventions to space and so on, even in Slovenia, it would be necessary and absolutely urgent to present to Members what this means. And I really regret that you're doing your job, not saying that you're being a fool, but that you're underestimating the National Assembly, that you say we gave you a map, that's an influential area, and that's what we already know. Why do we draw it like that, because there are experts who have probably drawn it, and they've probably justified why a spike is drawn there, where it's rounded and so on, and let them say it, and the government is bound to say it. I am not interested in discussing who was ever an influence in any field, who had the choice and so on. I agree with those who say, "We've brought Lipica to where she is now." And we have brought this in a way that every year the state budget has dedicated so much and so much 100 million to her in the last 10 years, and also to the time of the famous director who went with the upside-down head from Lipica, even then, but now it's there. I'm here to go on, let's ask ourselves if when it comes to regional landfills, when it comes to cleaning facilities, when it comes to highways, when it comes to other things, when it comes to monuments and so on, when it comes to space, there are monuments sometimes and, if anything, there is a rich archeology; but there is also a compromise with the local community that wants the road there, and it can't be because of, I don't know, archaeology or anything else. Why don't we take this into account here, why don't we give this local community a chance to give its opinion, why you're not ready to talk. But no, the famous thesis of Petan, which he freely admitted or set as a starting point, "who is not with us is against us and hinders the development that we are taking forward here". This is not the case, however, the National Assembly is the place where the arguments are to be exchanged, and the decision is to be made in the end, unfortunately we have nothing to do with this. I hope we all know what we're doing together.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u81	Thank you. A replica of your performance wishes colleague Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u82	Thank you. Look, I have to say, this has really been so typical of today's LDS debate. After you warn them that they are losing every possibility by their insulting, misleading, contradictory and obvious shortcomings, even in order to implement their proposal in the legislative process, the first to come forward again to the obvious untruth. Of course, I can prove it right away, even with a magnetogram, and I didn't say I wasn't interested in this marriage. I'm curious. I said, however, that no marriage is ideal and that I am sure that we could also do so through appropriate cooperation. But, respected colleagues and colleagues from LDS, the way you chose it is, excuse me, a comparison so horsey that it is unworthy of noble lips. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u83	We continue the debate. Member Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u84	Thank you, Chairman. Dear secretary with co-worker, distinguished colleague and colleague! Speaking of today's important topic, such as the Kobile Lipica, it is certainly the purpose of this government to improve the existing state of this facility, this cultural monument. I recall a few months ago when we discussed the report on the operation of Kobilar Lipica on the Committee on Budgetary Control, where at that time the former Director had said a number of incomprehensible and non-business moves of the then institution - something not going together - how urgent it is to change some of the measures if we are to take certain steps in favour of the cultural monument and the entire infrastructure in the Kobilar Region of Lipica. I believe that there are different interests, both local communities, individual policies and so on. And so it is, after all, everywhere. Last but not least, the Planica case is very fresh. There's a similar story. Many interests cause us to have national disgrace there instead of national pride. But thank God, there's a little bit different in the locust Lipica. In the near past, I have been there, and I must say that everything is not so tragic and bad, and I strongly believe that there is still much room for greater success. And it is certainly the purpose of this law to improve the existing situation. I am not saying that this is the optimal option, that everything is best written in it. However, I say that this is an important step forward. Already that segment, which may be small, but is important that somehow economic activity is excluded from cultural work, I think it is one of the more important steps. For under the common roof the public office, the hospitality and other services do not belong together. Anyone who knows anything about it knows it doesn't belong under the same roof. And that someone who does business in a public catering institution can't do it by any means. And that's why this infrastructure in Leipzig Room is a disgrace. I think this step has been taken and will be made with this bill to get out of this and try to do more here. Of course, it bothers me to say too much with our finger on the former government, the former minister, he's guilty, he's "stitched," that director's "stitched". I don't think it's productive, and even at this point, it doesn't help anything. What's done is done. The situation is as it is, the country has put its annual quotas in the Kobile Lipica, probably too little, and it will probably not give enough, because it is still a financially very demanding project that requires a lot of investment. But the country never has enough money, even for such monuments and many other things. And yet, more importantly, from here on out. It's the will, it's the goal, we have the bill on the table. Maybe I'm a little distracted by that part - if this optimal cooperation between the state, the ministry and the local community is not going to happen, then I'm afraid there will be no success. The practice of the environment is, if this partnership is not among the state, among the local community, among the cultural monuments, then I fear that success will be optimal here. And this is one more of my fears, personal. And if it isn't, but I don't know, I don't have any verified results, but after some of the fellow Members who come out of this area who know this better than I do, I feel that this partnership is gone, and it worries me a little bit about some future good result of this cobile Lipica. I hope that this government and this ministry will also provide more money to ensure that this cobalt, this Slovenian pride, this preciousness that we have, will be realized, and that this change in the law of things that have been for many years, I think, unacceptable, will also improve into the well-being of everything and, above all, the end of the infrastructure regime, which is very important for such a kind of facility. Not last time, I have nothing against golf. We used to build tennis like mushrooms in the rain. That was a hit. Today we no longer build tennis courts in Slovenia, but we build golf courses. We have some very respectable and very successful and if there is one more, thank God, and the state will not invest it, there will probably be some investors, one and the other, and I have nothing to do with it. This can be an additional offer in Kobilana Lipica to the entire complex to this part of Slovenia. But if anyone sees this as a conflict between some individuals in politics who are looking here, that is his problem. I see this more transparency, some complex offer, some ideal location for this kind of activity. However, if a person’s personal interests are different, he should ask himself how he is. In short, I hope that the country has taken one step forward with this movement, there may be two, but I will not get involved now. I hope that with this change of law and with this good will it will do those, I will say, historically or in the past who were, unfortunately not all ideally, make these corrections to the benefit of this monument, this cultural heritage, and that together with this adoption of the law we will also take a step forward to say at the end, in two years when they will assess us, or three years that the change has been made, and in a positive sense, to the benefit of this national monument and the good that this monument will visit as many Slovenians and foreigners as possible, and that it will bring profit and work to that environment, to that community and to those employees in this facility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u85	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Josip Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague! We talk a lot about everything and everything today, but very little about the Lipican, or at least in part, because I also understand the changes in the legislation, have regulated its status. Second. It has been 426 years since there is a Kobile Lipica or since it has been referred to as Lipican, but the Lipican and the Lipican area has not only been in the Lipica area, those who come from those parts know that the Lipican farming areas were much wider or larger in that karsco-internal area. Even in these 426 years, the event is happening, I will say, or the existence, the development of lipican is likely to repeat as repeated by Gaussa's curve, once a little more, once a little less, once the success was this breed, then less. I remember, some also, maybe, about 40 years ago, it was the 1960s, when soon it would have happened that there would have been no lipican in its original area. You know, at the time, it wasn't SLS, so don't let God be any other client in the 1960s than one who was then in control of everything he's been told to do. However, and above all, I think that when the late President of our former country hit the table, some order also took place in the rearing and rearing of the Lipican at our end. 60., 70. And this broad Lipica happens, and today we're talking about all that broad Lipica, and not just Lipica. Then because of the "strangers" who walked across the border, and because he had to sleep somewhere to go three times, four times after "shoes" across to the municipalities, hotels are built. Because they knew the Italians had some money, they built a casino with it. And then there comes the golf course, but before I fell into the word, you know, that house was there when you spoke. This was all happening, not again thanks to the SLS, because Mr Terčon or colleague Terčon mentioned the SLS, nor was it far from that. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I will, but since everyone else isn't on it, it would be hard for me. [[...]] Around the law itself, the influential area, the consensus, the integration of the local community. I hope to argue, and I will say over my thumb, I think a lot more coordination was in the preparation of this bill and what it forms, and the components of this law, as it was years ago when we determined the area of Nature in this Slovenia. You know, some municipalities have more than 50%, they are included in Natura 2000 and almost "not bev, not mev" has not been said in local communities. The next thing I'd like to say to my colleague Maja Shirca, I assure you, not yours, not A. Novak's, I wasn't a gentleman of old, even though I'm one of the Members of the coalition. I've never played golf before, and I don't think I will. But I like to go to nature and to Lipica. And there is something else I must say, colleague Jelinčič, I think that when you have invested in the hall, some of which are not true, some of them have been tried by a colleague of Montenegro to correct or, I will say, in the replica to remove, Mr Chernač has never been a member of the Slovenian People's Party. But I think the other inaccuracies, Comrade Jelinčič, were trying to justify himself. In summary, I personally assess that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on Kobilna Lipica, as some of you have tried to discuss at least a little about the content of this law, is improving the existing situation. Or is that the best thing to do? It's hard to say. In the way we are discussing today, we are certainly not going to improve it. That's why, right now, my word or my button will say yes after such a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u87	Thank you. Comrade Terchon, have you applied to the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u88	My friend Bajc mentioned me, and I'm going to answer him for a while, and Grimes is going to talk to Chernač, all of it. Yes, Comrade Bajc, you were in the coalition, the Minister of Agriculture was always yours, the Director was appointed by you and they were just following your example. My colleague Grimes was surprised we had one, too, because we had a Prime Minister. Yeah, well, that's the thing. You were coalition partners. Now, what are you doing with them? My colleague, too, who was terribly offended by my performance, I just say this, colleague Chernač, you have begun to waste the truth and I have only told you what is true.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u89	Thank you. Member Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u90	I'll try to be brief. First, it is necessary to correct the incorrect statement by the Secretary of State that this is an influential area under the law of environmental protection. Even by the law of environmental protection, you mentioned that, or by the law of nature conservation, I will not explain why. She agrees with that, too. What I see here is a simple expropriation of the territory of a local community of the Municipality of Sežana, from its governance to the management of the country, simply this and nothing else. There is no other reason than that the country took a larger piece in the congregation. That's the first thing. Another thing I'd like to say again, because I'm not gonna be able to talk anymore today. According to the law that was passed in 1996, it was always controversial whether or not the protection regime would be, let's say, a commercial regime that I don't explain. For a more commercial regime they have always cheered at the Ministry of Agriculture, for a more protective regime, more culturally protected at the Ministry of Culture, which Mrs Jelka Pirkovic knows well. It is true that the former government has not produced any clear long-term concept now, in this dilemma, but has done at least one, and this is that it has not opened the way for total commercialisation; and this is what this law does. My vision of the Kobiliar Lipica is about the same as that presented by two veterinarians, Mr Sok and Mr Saiovic. This vision doesn't have room in here, it needs to be known, it doesn't have room. I'm very surprised you turned the record like that. I'm surprised that you're filling in all over Slovenia today, you can't build anything, you've sealed up one of the largest military buildings in Ljubljana, which, apart from being very large, has no special value, you sealed up Plečnik's stadium, and you're opening up everything on top and thread. Since when has this changed? Because of political will. I am concerned about such an attitude that is adapted to current politics. As for Mr Grimes' assessment that this is a barn, that this House is a barn, this is his judgment, I am just asking him not to play the role of "horseman" in this barn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u91	I ask all Members, if they maintain a culture of dialogue and do not label the other Members with labels, as they would not have if they had received them, but, however, the decision is in the hands or mouth of each individual Member. I would like to take the floor with you, Member Tinker Bell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I think that today's debate is actually not going in the right direction, today it's not about Terchoon, it's not about Chernač and it's not about anyone else. I regret, Mr President, that some can disqualify, insult their colleagues in the framework of the procedural proposals in the round and expose them to lies that are ecclatic and verifiable in every place, while others do not have the opportunity to defend themselves. I really regret that, but that's exactly why I said what I had to do on December 17, 2004, and I regret that that didn't work. I sent everyone in writing, please, read that mail and you will be able to see that all that was said by my colleague Jelinčič is grave lies and disqualification. Article 2 is under consideration and the amendment to this second article, we have received in the meantime what was procedural, I do not know how many times it has been proposed that we cannot deal with the law because we do not have it. Now we have this, but in all this debate I have not observed one word about this, because what was said is that the affected area, the protected area is not properly defined, is not true, on the Internet this exists, which means that the debate after needlessly takes place around things that are not essential to this amendment. We know what an influential area means, this means nothing more than a PSC, an environmental impact assessment will be necessary for what will need to be done in this context in a new way or in a new way. Everything is secured within the power, sorry, Comrade Terchon, and now I have the floor, you can speak when you sign in. Perhaps this would not be necessary if, after 1996, the government had adopted this law, had done what it was obliged to do. The activities identified have been very clearly defined, with very clear deadlines; and apart from what was at the head of the public institution itself, the real rehabilitation programme, the regulation of the ownership situation and everything else that was done in time, everything else, which is essential for the development of Lipice, which is the basis, is a real spatial implementation plan set out in paragraph 7 of that Article and which should have been adopted by 31.5.1997, no, has not been adopted at all. That's the problem. We know, however, that in an area such as Lipica, a cultural monument such as Lipica cannot be established without appropriate spatial foundations. Then the programme for the protection and development of the whole area would not have been developed, Articles 8 to 30.11.1996, for four years it was not created, it was not done until 1996, we think until 2000 or it was not later created. Here are the problems and therefore we are faced with the fact that in this law it is necessary to release in some way what will enable the normal operation of this complex, while being adequately protected and protected. And that's what this change ensures, so this amendment is completely unnecessary in my opinion. I think that the interests of the country and the local community here will not go against each other, but these interests must be harmonised and I firmly believe that these interests will also be harmonised in the implementation. It is simply that formal bureaucratic procedures do not limit the activities that are necessary to valorise this cultural monument on the one hand, to give it to the public as it should be; and, on the other hand, allow normal conditions of employment, where in fact these regulations in law are not appropriate. It can't be, forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, one waitress a public servant in one Lipica, unfortunately it can't be, it's restrictive and it's nothing but that in this law, the parameters of protection that have to be met are set out on the one hand, and on the other hand, it releases the conditions for carrying out those activities that can function fully, completely, in a market-based manner. I'll tell you another case when you were talking about horses. No horse was sold, by the way, in my mandate, not because they wouldn't want to sell it. In the 250's, there's quite a few of them that need to be sold. They're not going anywhere, they're still going to have breeders. There are 3,000 of them all over the world, and what 3,000 are supposed to do now in Lipico is not the point. The point is to protect material, genetic potential, and have control and arm over it. The point is that one part of these horses that can make money is not all cannons, no. And when we wanted to give 10 horses then so that everyone could ride, they said, no, but that's not possible because it's an elite now and that's why we can't work here so that, I'll say in a rough way, they deserve a fur. But that's how they work everywhere, so did Austro-Hungarian, who founded Lipico, who knew how to act, who knew that the area couldn't carry more than 260 horses, and so she had what Bajc said, properties both at the Schools at Hrušev and at Prestrek, at Poček and Bilah and so on, where the lots were up to a certain age of four, five years and then they were brought back when the good ones, of course, were used for the best material; and so we should do it. But despite this clear law, which was adopted at the time, in 1996, you did not address the problem of Casino, you left it, you excluded it so it could not be supported, in Lipica I speak of Casino. There was money, about 300 to 400 million a year, which could generate the development of Lipica, remained to be owned under a second law and you did not save these lands that were on all these properties. In addition to 311 hectares of Lipica, nothing else was resolved by this law. The Schools went, the Presence went into private hands and the only Poček and Bille were in state ownership because they were lucky there or unfortunately the military range, but the least appropriate of all these properties. And I think if these things were settled at the time, as they were supposed to, and if the support of the then government were back then, but I'm not saying anything bad, maybe there were other interests, maybe there was another occupation, and there was no interest in doing that, maybe today in Lipica we'd already have a golf course with 18 holes, but probably no more casinos, I'm pretty sure she would probably have moved out of the area by now, because she would have seen for herself that there's no prospect of development in this area. That's why I don't understand this debate about golf, which is completely unproductive, but golf is not from yesterday, late Franetic brought him to Lipico at the end of the 1980s, and what should we do now? They're supposed to shut him down. True, they did not design it well, they did not design it well according to the cultural landscape of Krajina; they designed it too largely, but there were other times. It is there and now it needs to be evaluated in an appropriate manner, because it is likely that Lipice itself has no negative effects, but it has very large negative effects of the casino, the Casino in the core of Lipice itself, which will, of course, have to find another location. And by the time I'm done. The number of horses in Lipica ranged from 169 to 181 between 1991 and 1995. In 1996, there were 204 horses and 1997 238, and so the story continued. I think that the intention of the government in the case of Kobilar Lipica or Lipica as a whole is very clear, and I think that this amendment, which is now proposed here, is not necessary because it is an additional formal obstacle to allow activities to move forward a little faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u93	Thank you. Comrade Chernač, I'm sorry if you feel that you didn't get the word when you wanted to get it, but let me say for you as well as for all the other Members, we don't usually give replicas to the replica, and we don't even know the replicas to the procedural rules. You received the text in accordance with the Rules of Procedure when you applied for the debate, as did all other Members. We continue the debate. Comrade Anderlich, allow me to lead the session. I've got the easiest exam, I've been writing across the street with the help of a coworker, you can't see behind your back, because it's in human nature that you can't see back, and I believe it's true for you. A colleague of Bosniak Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. I believe that I have the floor in the debate on the amendment to Article 2 proposed by my colleague Terchón, although I have raised my hand for procedural reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u95	Comrade Zagorac, decide what you will have.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u96	Then at this point, I would have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u97	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u98	Mr. Chairman. In order to facilitate the decision to adopt or support or not to support the amendment proposed by my colleague Terchón, I would politely ask the bill-maker, and at that time I have devoted a few moments to these figures which the government has proposed to us as parcels, partial numbers. I believe that a colleague of mine, who is not listening now, will be happy to respond as the former director of Lipice. Tell us, or explain, what is on the partial numbers, and if you write them down: 165/136, 165/137, 165/138, and then you have 165/169 and then you have 165/14 and then you have 165/1440? These six parcels seem very important to me, and I believe that it will be easier for all of us, including the coalition Members, to decide on the amendment and on the bill if you tell us what is on these parcel numbers. I therefore propose that the National Assembly be defined in this procedural proposal and that the Government or proposer, with the assistance of, if necessary, the former Director of Cobile Lipica, ensure what is in these parcels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u99	Thank you. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. Some Members and Members of Parliament today are dealing with professional grounds.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u101	The debate continues as it is [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] Then define the procedural proposal so that it can be put to the vote without further explanation. [[..]] One more time, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u102	Thank you again, Mr President, for the floor. I'm going to formulate it because you've just been making a trade for Mr. Vice President. I'll rephrase it. I think he was reasonable enough. Before voting on the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club, let the government provide information on what is on the following parcels as proposed in Article 2 of the Law, of course, to the extent it wishes, but the national assembly may adopt such a procedural proposal. This is for parcels 165. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u103	Mr Zagorac, we have heard this, but this is not an feasible procedural proposal because it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You may suggest the suspension of the sitting, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u104	if the government [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u105	to provide certain information or to re-examine a particular problem of the working body or something similar. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u106	Since the honor of this high assembly is very important, I would like the government to determine whether it takes time to prepare this for us, or whether it does not take time to prepare it for us. As far as I'm concerned, they can send me an e-mail.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u107	Mr. Zagorac, there's still a debate, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u108	I believe they have this information. [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u109	I beg your pardon? Procedural proposal? There's still a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u110	To provide us with data before deciding what is on the partial numbers they cited. I can read them again, but you told me you heard them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u111	Look, government, government officials are here and they've heard your demands. They will join the debate and I think they will meet your expectations.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u112	I hope they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraiev has the floor. When she's finished, you'll get a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u114	Thanks again. So some Members and Members of Parliament today are making the biggest issue of the professional basis, which you have obviously found in the week since we discussed changes to the law on the committee. In fact, at the time, the main problem was the adoption of the law or the amendment by emergency procedure, and you suggested that we move to the agenda, while saying that Lipico must be resolved as soon as possible and as soon as possible, but not as urgently as possible, obviously. A public debate was proposed, a debate between the experts, to let the expert know his/her/her/her/her/her/her/herself. The section has been talking about Lipica for 15 years, and the discussions and round tables have been large and the solution is slightly smaller. Lipica works with loss, the funds given by taxpayers to solve the problem are spilling over and used for purposes for which they were not given. I can't get rid of the feeling that in fact some people don't want to solve Lipica's problem, or that you don't want to let someone else do it, because then you should admit that you didn't do it when you had the chance. At the time, it was obviously much less than today, when you all know how and what you should do with Lipica. As far as the opposition really is concerned to solve the problem in Lipica, their relationship also shows after three hours of debate on the committee, we were only representatives of the position and two representatives of the opposition, Mrs Shirca and Mr Kumer. We wanted to talk and we were, of course, the ones we stayed on the board. So the facts are as follows, Lipica deals with loss, funds are spent unintentionally, for horses that you emphasize, and which are the main ones in Lipica and with their breeding have been poured into the inn. The objects that have been in Lipica for decades, including golf, which is suddenly very disruptive and problematic, are failing due to legal restrictions, and some new investments have not been possible or impossible at all. For the first time, however, the government has prepared a programme for the development and amendment of the law to ensure the high protection of the herd of Lipicans, which is the first time that this programme sets out the size of the herd. More than ever, we will take care of over 100 acres [100 ha] of pastures and grasslands that have grown in the past and have not served their purpose. I wonder whether we want to maintain such a state, or whether we want Lipico to arrange and prepare a place so that he can be suitable for breeding horses. Yesterday an open letter was sent to the government with 1,500 signatures from the people of Lipica and the surrounding area, which supports the government in their efforts and is about to settle the situation in Lipica. The new law brings an influential area that will prevent new activities from being established that would harm the colloidal or its activities. The country will have the option of pre-emptive rights on land that will serve Lipica for horse breeding. And the director of the co-balancing committee said what problems they were dealing with, that they could not build a cleaning plant and other investments, because it was not possible to do so legally, and this saved the novel. The novelty brings changes that will make it possible to improve what has proved to be a weakness since the adoption of the law or which has made it impossible and put Lipica in such a situation that the situation cannot be resolved. That's the point. The first step is the law, and then, of course, improvements where it is found that we have not set something right. Who was the minister at the time, and who was not, from which party, some would even deny that they were ministers, probably not the most important. The fact is, there's been too little in Lipica and it's only right to do more. That is why I will support the amendment of the law, but I will not support the amendment to Article 2 and others who are amending the amendment. As a member of the post, I am aware of the responsibility I have assumed by my election, and one of the responsibilities is to care for pearls in Slovenia and Slovenia, which some have left to fail, even though they have written some things down in the law and then have not realized them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. So my procedural question or proposal is that we also get professional grounds on the tables to determine an influential area, because some criteria are also defined. At the beginning of the meeting, Mrs Pirkovic, Mr President, you were gone, she promised that we would get this too. I also demanded that, as you know, this is the kind of thing that I predicted it would, so one card was pulled out, they mapped the limit on the computer, and they copied it for us now. I've already announced that. Now we'd like to get some professional backgrounds. Explanation. We do not object to the settlement of the situation in Lipica, as you claim. Lipica has been this secure area so far, and if you want to fix it, you can sort it out. Article 2, which we are talking about, we are talking about, we are talking about a broader issue, I do not understand whether I have to speak in any other way or something that is not understandable. And this suggests only that this influential area be determined in agreement. Mr. Blackach has already said that the PSC will be needed here. But there won't be any need for protection. There's nothing going on here. And that will limit development in this area. If not, gentlemen from the Ministry of Culture, ask yourself what you did in the last case, when Tavčar from Povirja asked for consent to the trial quarry, to extend and carry out the activity experimentally, how much time did you make it difficult for us to find a suitable solution only after the EMTs. Even before this was legally accepted, you made it difficult. That's what I'm saying. And don't say we're against settling the situation in Lipica. We're against you creating new problems with this, and that's it. Mr President, I expect the government to tell us when it will come with professional grounds, if it has them, to see what they are like. Maybe he doesn't have any.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u117	Thank you. I hope that you will repeat this procedural proposal before the vote in the evening: in accordance with Rule 73(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the meeting should be suspended in order to obtain the opinion of the Government. If you repeat this before the vote, we will put such a proposal to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We continue the debate. Madam Secretary, Dr Pirkovic, spoke. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u118	Just for a little while. I'm sorry that this is how we get involved in an influential area. The influential area is determined by a government decree. This is based on the law on the protection of cultural heritage. The implementation of the regime depends on the law on space regulation and the law on environmental protection. In decision-making processes, what can and should not be decided in an influential area, where the entire jurisdiction of the municipality is still in place, it is only necessary to determine whether or not a certain investment has such an impact through an impact assessment on cultural heritage. And that's all. It is therefore also clear that the casino you mentioned, which has been awarded a concession within an influential area, does not fall under the environmental impact assessment, since there is no such investment that would have any environmental impact on the environment, including on the heritage, already under the European Union Regulation and under the Environmental Protection Act. It has no influence on inheritance. The procedural proposal, which was given on certain plots - in this I see only stalling. Now we're going to tell you what these plots are, and in the next step, we can talk about what other plots are, and so we can do it all day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Scholch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Look, what Mrs. Pirkovic says is only partially true. At this point, we do not have these starting points that Mr Terchoon spoke about, and at this point we are replacing the decree with the law, so we are obliged to have this, because all changes will then be linked to the legislative process, not to the decision-making process in the government. Second thing. My colleague, Chernač, said that he was not willing to do anything and that nothing was done about these spatial documents. Of course it doesn't. The truth is the other way around. The national location plan was prepared because the state's location plan was not what people wanted to redecorate Lipica, it was stuck in government drawers and so we got a change of the Lipica law, that's the key truth. The truth is, according to the law, you didn't want to regulate things there, but in spite of the current ones, so we're building exceptions here and that's why we don't have this data. It is therefore necessary to ask why all legislation on the protection of heritage and on Lipica is restrictive in order to do these things. Third and last thing. When we refer so much to the past, I admit that I was a minister, and I also tell you that there was a memorial restoration programme at the time, I think that from Article 5, that it ran, I don't know if it ran to the end, and it wasn't true that it was not for the protection of cultural heritage in the sense of building heritage that nothing was done. Almost everything was restored, for that was money, part of the money was also obtained from an agreement with the casino Portorož. So much for not doing anything. What the Ministry is deceiving here is that it does not want to give the grounds that mean extension. On one occasion it refers to the law on inheritance, on the other, to the law on the protection of nature, and on the other, there would be nothing wrong with declaring it by law, if there were grounds, it would be necessary, at least for decision-making in the national assembly. Mr President, these are one of those elements which the National Assembly, if Members request them, must also receive. In this regard, the question is also whether all the assumptions for the adoption of the law have been met, except, I will say, formally that [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u121	Thank you, Mr. Skull. I apologize to Mr Anderlich that he was accidentally released in a row of announcements. Mr. Zagorac has the word, he's cancelling. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I would have supported this amendment, as probably many mayors in the National Assembly would have if I had not been in breach of other legislation. My colleague, Mr Školč, and I know this very well, or he has gone out now, including the laws governing the proclamation of cultural monuments, and the law governing the protected or protected areas of cultural monuments and the so-called area of influence, which is now the hottest topic. This legislation has just been adopted, at least I think that just when Mr Školč was Minister or what I want to say. The monument, as it says in legislation, is a monument of state importance, we know who declares it. We know who declares the monument of local importance, and it is appropriate, as stated in the law, that a protected and influential area is also established. And I would like to ask myself why in these laws, along with the law on environmental protection, as the secretary points out, why the local communities were not invited at the time in order to define these areas, and as now proposed, they would give their consent. Surely, there was some intention that this was not the case in the law, but I think it was just the intention that the purpose must have been somehow substantiated in the sense that various conflict interests would arise in local communities, and therefore the question of how these so-called influential areas could be defined. I have to tell you, if this were to be written in the law, then we, too, would probably have no area today, or so-called influential area, where the conflict of interest on the part of the local community would be so great that we have observed over this decade. And for that very purpose, the legislator must have prescribed such a law. It really bothers me how quickly someone turns the board. We're really something special, like we're some kind of Lipicans. That was said many times today. That is, when another variant would have been more convenient for us, we would have called together or, in this law on Kobilana Lipica, ruled out clearly that the congregation, the local community, should give their consent. Once again, as mayor, I would be very happy if this were so defined in other laws. But unfortunately that is not, and I cannot vote today for this proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u123	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2. Mr. Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. I would have one question after this second amendment and would like to refer to the debate of my colleague the predecessor if the representative of the government answers, or I ask her to answer. Or in similar cases, when cultural monuments are declared at the level, or building and similar, state importance, in any law is such a dictatorship as this amendment proposes. If I had listened to you correctly when you were representing the government's views, it would have been a mess, and if that was and if you would have confirmed that it was a rabble, I could say that it was only the local interests of some of the areas that controlled the area to this day and are still in control of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u125	Madam Secretary of State, you wish to respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u126	Just for a little while. The Cultural Heritage Act does not provide for the consent of the local community to declare.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u127	Thank you. Anybody else want some? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate and move on to the debate on Article 5 and the four amendments to Article 5. Who wants a word? Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 5 is certainly one of those articles that discusses how wise and wise this law is. It points out that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to adopt a management plan for the protected area for a period of four years, and further gives permission to intervene in a premises in the protected area only to the Minister, and is essentially competent to issue the necessary permits. Of course, our amendment, which we tabled in Article 5, wants to correct this injustice that has been committed in the preparation of this law, to which the congregation has also pointed, and I hope that the Members of the Government follow the coordination and that you have so much review of this event, that you know that the Lipice Council of Experts has also given support to this amendment. The expert council is chaired by Mr Brejc and it would be right to give the municipality the opportunity and opportunity to say a word about what can and should not be done within the protected Protective Area of Lipice. Of course, if this is not accepted in this context, as proposed, then the last train left the platform and Lipica will really not have any brakes on her not doing what anyone who has five minutes of time wants. Because we know that Lipica and I are dealing with almost everyone who actually wants to do this today. And that there are almost no professional grounds to protect this area that would dictate development in this area, and that we also come to the point that what the minister, who is a political person, will be able to determine and decide in Lipica. I would ask you to reflect on the content of this amendment and to support it, because in this way we will install at least one small fuse into it quickly prepared, we can call what has shortened the law and give the local community the opportunity to decide what should happen there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u130	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honors are here! We are now at the time of that amendment, which has already been discussed in the previous article, with an amendment giving exclusive powers to the Minister to decide what is going to happen in a certain protected area and what is not going to happen. We are now in this amendment, where the content of the law is also, I will say, on a very thin line, whether it is a political law, or whether it is a solution to the state, I emphasise, a state cultural monument. Some have talked about what someone who is not from there or who is not local is saying. It is a national cultural monument, we are a national assembly and it is right to discuss it. It is about this divorce law, I will say, tourism and the economy from the horsemen, we have heard in this debate several times. I agree, it is a separation of tourism and the economy, exclusively tourism and the economy, and it forgets horse riding. Some of you mentioned horses in your discussions, some even horsemen and mare. But I'll tell you, if you've looked at the bill, I can't tell anyone that it's not there, you'll find the word horses mentioned twice, the word of the stallion, and the word of the mare, never before, so much about the horseman in this marriage. If the law were to bear the title "the law on the construction of a golf course in Lipica" and it might even be acceptable because the intention would appear. Then I'd even understand him. However, when someone speaks of horsemen in this law, but it is a complete deception of the public, because I told you how many times the word horse appears in the law itself, the word tourism is very often, the word golf does not appear, but it appears that the minister has exclusive competence to determine what will be done on a given land. It's about paying the high representatives of the coalition government, or I'll be more precise not to offend anyone in this coalition of SDS, for their intentions, we know who has the intention to build a golf course there. I must say that in my six-year presence in this house, it is said that I have spent here one mandate of the government of another coalition, which has been reported today to have done absolutely nothing in Lipica, I have not experienced such an open law that would favour the individual representative of a particular political party and allow him to have its financial and, last but not least, its sporting prosperity. To this end, it is a matter of tourism, respected colleagues of Social Democracy, to tell me, from the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, I apologize and thank you for the warning, the Slovenian Democratic Party, once again an apology, colleague Petan, who has two casinos in the municipality of Lipica, where we know that there are two casinos, exclusive concessions in one of them. Is this a visible representative of the SDS? [[Don't ……]] I remind you who has it, I remind you of your name and last name, whether the air conditioner may have blown you up, but you don't know who it is. I told you who has it. And when someone claims that this isn't about paying officials or their credits. I believe that even the Lipi casino, we are talking about what is in the protected area, will sooner or later need a new concessionaire; and this is the law you have prepared for us today. All four amendments to Article 5, I will say, are acceptable in as much as my colleague, Member, Lucky Friend, has already said to you to make one guard to prevent you from doing literally with these parcels on the four pages, even though I believe that some of the parcels you mentioned do not exist at all, but that is why I will wait for the denial before the government's vote. Maybe you made them up, maybe you added a hole. Nine holes is not a half-golf, is a little golf, Mr. Petan, a little golf, not a half-golf, little golf. I trust you're not playing it, but once you're anywhere near the president of your party, you'll start doing it. We have taken quite a few initiatives with Lipica in the Slovenian National Party. One of these was mine, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, on the integration of horses of Lipcanians into the State Protocol. Today, even though we speak in your belief about horses, there was not a word about that. We can get a government representative to tell us how you've included them, which funds you've provided when it comes to protocol horses. What have you done so far in order to have these horses included in the protocol? Nothing. Today you proposed to us Brejč's law on the development of tourism in Lipica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. First of all, it is true that the law on the protection of cultural heritage does not require the consent of the local community. But the other part of the truth has to be told. No law so far or any law that defines a cultural monument of State importance is as recorded in Article 2 as it is written in this law, so it is an omen and it is a precedent and it must be said, the truth, the whole. For today it has also been said by a government representative that a decree has been adopted, and indeed, the government has adopted a decree on this area without formal cooperation from the local community - even today it has been said that the informal cooperation of the local community has been. And today, in this national council, we are turning this decree into a marriage. So we're turning this influential area from a decree into a law. We therefore proposed to the previous Article 2 that we see whether there are any professional grounds for the development of Lipice. Now let me move on to this Article 5. If all of this is true, as we have heard from the Government, the professional basis is, the development plan of Lipice is, not only the programme for the protection and development of the Lipica 2006-2010 co-balancing plant, then in this second paragraph of Article 7, this dictatorship is unnecessary or is unnecessary - that for individual parts of the protected area the government may adopt a partial management plan, if necessary. There is no need for this partial plan to be adopted. We believe that the government wants to reserve its discretion on whether it will apply specific measures and a specific management regime for individual parts of the protected area, since nowhere in the proposal, even in this article, is there any criteria on how, when or under what conditions it will do so. Therefore, in our view, it is entirely sufficient, as it is stated, that the government will adopt a four-year management plan for the Lipica cobial plant for a four-year period. And within this four-year plan, in all likelihood, if there are, I repeat, the professional basis, the Lipica development strategy and so on, which you say goes back to 2050, what will happen there, then within a four-year period with partial interventions, there is no need to intervene. Above all - to return to Article 2 - if, in fact, there are even fewer professional grounds behind Article 2 that have been defined. I therefore hope that the majority in this national assembly, at least the one who is not malicious and is not the one who breaks the concept, will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u133	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Once again a well-intentioned call on all Members to avoid a time of future that will show what you have accepted today and what the Minister will be able to do, if you do not support any amendment, and what will grow in Lipica - an invitation to support the amendment also by the Slovenian national parties to take this responsibility to the Minister and to be part of the responsibility of the local community. I don't believe that whoever wrote this marriage to his skin will say thank you for supporting him. When you leave here, he'll forget about it. He won't even give you free golf lessons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u135	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 7 and the amendment to Article 7 of this Act. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 9 and the five amendments to this Article. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. We are moving on to Article 11 and to the two amendments to Article 11. Anybody want a word? Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u136	In view of the discussion on Article 2, which is related to Article 11, and I then used the syntagma that the drafter was standing on his head when he was preparing it. At least in our view, our Group seems logical that before you definitively define this influential area and attack these influential areas, there are some others, now I have repeated 10 times, the documents that have already been requested today. Once this management plan has been adopted, it is only then that an intervention in this influential area is definitively established. Simply put, we have therefore proposed to go to these preliminary provisions and not to any specific article at 2 or 5, I think in Article 5.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u137	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss Article 11 and the two amendments? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendments, which we will decide in accordance with the meeting's time frame today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 15th item of the agenda or at the latest tomorrow at 00.05. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the consent and growth of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Dars D. D. From credits and debt securities leased in respect of resstructuring specified credits Dars D. D. - Emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u138	Thank you, Mr. President. I will briefly present the proposed law. The proposed law is essentially the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to Dars d.d. for obligations under the restructuring of certain loans made by Dars d.d. leased in the past period. The terms and conditions of the debt owed by Dars d.d. then reached the market, were significantly less favourable than the conditions under which it can be indebted today. Recruitment or issue of debt securities under this Act will be intended for the early repayment of the existing debt Dars d.d., or in the event of the restructuring of the debt work in existing creditors to improve the conditions of indebtedness in terms of reducing debt costs, in short for more favourable interest rates. By reconstructing under this law, the improved structure of Dars d.d. credit portfolio is provided. and enables active debt management with a view to reducing funding commitments. It is therefore realistic to expect that the restructuring savings will exceed 500 million Slovenian tolars per year, says about 2 million euros, i.e. over 10 billion or 40 million euros in 20 years. The funds for repayments of loans or bonds issued will be provided by DARS d.d. from the means of concessional duty. The financial implications of this law would affect the budget of the Republic of Slovenia only if there was a cashing under the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act for limited loans or issued debt securities. In this case, the Republic of Slovenia shall have, on the basis of Article 7, the right to regress all payment amounts, together with all costs incurred in this regard, from all sources dedicated to the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. Debt under this law does not fall under the debt quota under the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, as it is only a matter of replacing existing loans. DARS d.d.’s credit exposure and thus the State’s guarantee exposure does not increase, on the contrary. Due to the more favourable conditions, new liabilities will be exposure to DARS d.d. and thus smaller countries as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u139	Thank you to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u140	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President, Your Honor. Proposal for a Law on the consent and guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the DARS d.d. on credit and debt securities leased or issued for the restructuring of certain credits by the DARS d.d., he also considered at his 19th meeting the Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Policy Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia as a parent body. The Committee received an opinion or comments from the Legislative and Legal Service, which were later taken into account in the amendments of the Committee, which were subsequently drafted, by adopting the amendments by 1, 5 and the address itself. I must say that the Committee has unanimously supported all amendments, as well as the content of the law itself, because the content of the law is such that it is useful for the State as well as for taxpayers. For Dars, it allows credits that at the end of 2005 amounted to €691 million, to be restructured in a way that substantially reduces the cost of borrowing or the cost of these loans. I'd like to tell you what this restructuring means. Restructuring means either a reprogramming or a refinancing of existing obligations, a change in the manual and other conditions of existing obligations shall be considered for the reprogramming of obligations and, under more favourable conditions, for the refinancing of obligations. Thus, in any event, these re-borrowing loans will be used to repay existing loans, which were leased at a time when the generally applicable interest rates and credit conditions were significantly lower. The above-mentioned, expected positive assessments have already been made by a government representative who is not negligible. I therefore propose that this law be adopted by the National Assembly. However, the amendments are already included in the text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u141	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the members of the groups. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u142	Thank you very much. When we talk about the law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Dars, we are talking directly about our transport infrastructure, about the road infrastructure that we know is not what we want, and that we are trying to build it with the national highway construction programme, with the annual plans just to update and build where it has not yet been. In the DeSUS Group, we support both the national programme and the annual plans. However, we support, of course, all that is necessary in order to ensure adequate financial resources and, in fact, to make it possible to build. Construction is financed from various sources, including securities, debt securities and loans; and in different periods, credits have been leased under different favourable conditions. It has been shown that in certain periods it has not been possible to hire, at least for today's understanding, favourable loans and that now that the situation has changed, it is possible to change the financing method in such a way that this financing is restructured, as already mentioned in the introduction. We support this, in particular, because this allows us to build and rebuild our motorways smoothly, because we are assured that this will make it easier to manage the credit potential in Dars, and because they provide us with numerical calculations that it is a smooth savings, it is at the annual level for several hundred million and at the level of the entire repayment period for billions of savings. And it would be really strange if someone among us did not accept such a proposal, so in the Member State of DeSUS we support this proposal of the law before us.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr Srečko Hvauc will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u144	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal on the consent and guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to Darsa liabilities on loans and debt securities leased or issued for the restructuring of certain Darsa loans. We all know that Dars is financing the construction of motorways also with credits, and it is logical, economically justified and rational to hire credits to those who are most favourable. And since we know that the situation in our affordable financial markets has changed considerably over the past period, credit has become more favourable, especially with the entry into the European Union, it is perfectly logical that we are also trying to make use of these cheaper sources. At the current moment, we are losing every day and therefore we support the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. If we look at the list of credits, we see that these are credits that have been leased since 1994, and I think that up to 2000, even during this period, the situation in the financial market has improved and we are asked why it has not already joined similar restructuring. In particular, it is important to stress that there are no new obligations for the country or that the risk of Darsa is not increased, or that it is earlier a reduction. Dars also has a long-term, stable source of repayment of these liabilities, it is tolls and there are no risks involved, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party we support this law, because we will not lastly save about 500 million tolars there on an annual basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr Milan Petek has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u146	Nice greetings to colleagues, representatives of the Ministry, the President. The LDS Club will support the law as it reduces or prevents difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the country that would have arisen if the restructuring of Darsa’s credit portfolio were delayed. The restructuring of the credit portfolio requires the reprogramming and financing of some of the loans that Dars has actually rented in the past under much less favourable conditions than we can currently reach in the financial and capital market. The issue is understandable, we were not in the European Union, we entered the European Union, the conditions for us were different and therefore these credits had much worse conditions. Today the situation has changed and therefore the conditions are appropriate to restructure this debt that has arisen or these obligations that have arisen in the past. So, as it is said, the LDS Club will support the law, but at the same time we must remind the government once again to consider how Dars' funding for the 2007 and 2008 budget is to be considered, as the government's policy for financing motorways is flawed. The government has closed the 2005 and 2006 budget by reducing funding for the highway programme, resulting in a record indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia. So far, most of the money for the construction of motorways has been provided from the state budget, we all know that this was about a third, a third of the debt and a third of the toll. Now this concept has been changed. It is not changed because the government and the coalition believe that Dars is able to do so on his own; it would not, in fact, be necessary under this law, but because the government has decided to devote more money to the repressive authorities. Remember from the budgetary developments when 36 billion were given to the military and police in 2006 and 26 billion more in 2007. That's what we think is the reason Darss had to go into debt. Therefore, the Transport Ministry has received a significantly lower share of money than in recent years. And what's going on about that? Road construction will not be significantly faster, but it will be more cost-effective. The project, which was financially stable on the basis of the studies commissioned by the current Transport Minister, then became questionable and negative. Dars will soon become insolvent and, as a result of this way of financing, the motorway will be affected by taxpayers and those who will have substantially increased tolls due to the obligation to repay loans. The electronic tolling system for all users, which is expected to be introduced by the Minister in 2008, will certainly make such decisions, i.e. the increase of tolls. As has already been said, the law we are dealing with today, of course, has positive consequences, which is why the LDS will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr Ferri Horvat will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! Members and Members of the Social Democrats Group support and vote in favour of the bill. At the same time, I would like to express my expectation that the government is also trying in other cases where we are in debt abroad under less favourable conditions than is possible today, given the realistic expectation that by entering the euro area we will receive an even more favourable position and more favourable conditions in the international financial market, that in other cases the government is also trying to achieve restructuring; and we propose that it come with similar proposals for legislation. And the second thing I'd like to say on this occasion is to collect the tolls. Toll collection activities had to be accelerated, which would in fact enable or facilitate the repayment of credits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we agree with the proposal for a law on the consent and guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for Dars liabilities on loans and debt securities leased or issued for the reconstruction of certain Dars loans. Our position is based on the following reasons. The international financial market situation, as well as the rest of the domestic and international financial and capital markets, has significantly improved in the past ten years since Dars was an active demander in these markets. For Slovenia, these conditions are significantly better compared to those that were in force ten years ago; also because Slovenia entered the European Union during this period. Slovenia's entry into the European Union also means harmonising legislation with European legislation, which gives our country a completely different starting point in the role of the borrower. Slovenia has also entered NATO during this period, which means additional security for lenders from the point of view of security. Slovenia has also met the convergence criteria, which are very difficult in the last two years, and will also take over the euro as the only new member as a payment asset with 1.1.2007, which also means a better starting point. Today, it is possible to achieve significantly better conditions than those reached by Dars between 1994 and 1996 and some later by the European Investment Bank, i.e. interest rates on these credits today range from 4.38 to 7.59 years and current interest rates on the European Investment Bank range about 3% per year or eurobor plus 0.10%. The same is true of some commercial banks that, in the period up to 2001, granted loans that today have an interest rate of 5.5%. The proposed law would allow Dars to reconstruct certain loans and also significantly reduce the interest paid. It is estimated that Dars will thus be able to save the circus 500 million or 2 million euros at the annual level, representing 10 billion dollars or 40 million euros in the 20s. In short, it is important, in our view, that we take advantage of this opportunity, which is being offered and made possible by Darsa's easier repayment of the loans he has hired. It is certainly necessary to establish that the early repayment of the debt is yet to be paid in any way and that, for these reasons, the necessary procedure is also fully justified. It would be totally irrational for long-term interest rates to increase, thus losing to the effectiveness of the planned step. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the proposal for a law prepared by the Ministry of Finance because we believe that it is good for Dars and, as a result, for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u151	Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u152	Mr. President, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker! Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party supports the adoption of the Law on Consent and Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Darsa d.d. from credits and debt securities leased and issued for the reconstruction of certain loans by Darsa d.d. The adoption of the law in question does not impose new financial obligations on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The budget would only be affected if the state guarantee had been reimbursed. The funds for the repayment of loans or bonds issued during the period 1994-2004 will be provided by Dars from the concession fee he deducts. Debt under this law is not considered to be a quota for the indebtedness of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia; in a specific case, it is a matter of replacing the credits already paid by Dars during the period 1994-2000, and if we looked at them in law, we could see that these 16 loans were so different in terms of monetary fidelity, once were dollars, euros, once some other coins and probably each of the loans were leased under substantially more adverse conditions than today's credits on the European market. For this reason, the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the proposed law and will also reflect on other areas where the State has been a borrower of loans in the past period and which are at present and under current criteria unfavourable to try to reprogram or restructure them in a similar way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The bill that I will not read the entire address before us is necessarily evil. I do not think that there will be a parliamentary group and a Member who will oppose this bill, because it is also not reasonable to oppose such an offer that we have before us, but I would only add a few facts in relation to this law. In this mandate alone, the laws on the consent and guarantee of Dars of the Company for the Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia brought debts to Darsu and thereby guaranteed to the State of the Republic of Slovenia an amount of EUR 640 million. No matter how many wise words about favourable loans have been made today in presenting this law, how beneficial this loan has been received or how important it is to take it, it is necessary to say that credit is credit and no one in this world, unless someone has a really good friend, does not give credit so much that you will then return the same amount as you took it. You always overpay the loan, let it be as convenient, but it always has to be overpaid. When we heard from one of my speakers in the presentation of the position, one third of the construction of Slovenian motorways goes from credits, one third from the toll collection plan. I am one of those who ride to Ljubljana, I am not Ljubljana and I drive from Maribor and I know what it means to collect tolls. I also expect and reasonably expect, all those who expect something else, I believe you are mistaken, but time will show that these tolls will increase further. By increasing tolls, we tax indirectly, not directly, all users. Users, I believe, are, I will say, taxpayers, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. One such nonsense that occurs in the collection of tolls that will pay off, in my opinion, both this credit and all previous credits is nonsense on the route Šentilj-Peznica. It's 8 kilometers of well-equipped highway, where you pick up 220 tolls for people to use the highway for 8 kilometers. I think it's a nice representation of how they think credit repayments are to be carried out in the future. I think it is also necessary for Dars to point out that it is a time-consuming time, although I myself, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, have asked quite a few questions to the Minister of Transport to finally resolve this dilemma "closed, open toll collection system" in order to finally find that toll collection system that will be friendly to the users of the motorway. Of course, I also disagree with myself, and we also disagree with the fact in the Slovenian National Party, but I believe that all Members here read the media, with one sentence from one of the Slovenian media, which said that Director Darsa only gets half the bread and pays the whole because the seller only gets half the highway and pays even the toll, and that is one fact that will need to be considered. This morning, when I was driving from Maribor to Ljubljana, I was actually involved, if I could somehow define myself, from Maribor to Vranski somewhere 70% of the highway, and I paid a whole 100, even though I was not receiving the luxury that the highway was supposed to offer me, I paid for all this luxury, including the congestion and any foreseeable accidents that were going on. Only this week, I can tell you that the narrowing of the road, the highway between Maribor and Celi, has led to a very serious traffic accident, and these credits that I mention need to be considered. Maybe it's time to think about it too, not least we pay these credits to users of Slovenian motorways.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u155	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on the promotion of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the University of Love, the University of Maribor and the Student Organisation of Slovenia on credits for co-financing the extension of the process and the development and renewal of spatial conditions and technological equipment. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Mr. Lavric, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u156	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! I will briefly present the bill. According to the existing text of the guarantee law, the beneficiary of the loan with the State guarantee is also the Student Organisation of Slovenia, amounting to 3 billion tolars. Since the entry into force of the guarantee law, that is, since 27 August 2003, this organisation has not rented a loan. After discussions between the government and representatives of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology and the Student Organisation of Slovenia, it was found that it conditioned the rental of loans with co-ownership of student homes. According to a harmonised legal opinion of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology and the Ministry of Finance co-ownership, subject to the rules of the Republic of Slovenia, it is not possible. For the above reasons, the government proposes to amend the law so that the Republic of Slovenia will provide guarantees to the public institution Students' Homes in Ljubljana, the University of Maribor and the University of Primorska, which will rent loans instead of the student organisation of Slovenia at a total of 3 billion tolars, while the existing quota does not change. The implementation of the law will not create a new financial liability for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, as the total amount of credit does not change. Due to the conditionality of the loan of the Student Organisation of Slovenia with co-ownership of student homes, to which the Government does not consider it justified, it was not possible to re-establish student homes to a large extent. However, with the change of the borrower, it is the Government's view that the restoration of the home will be accelerated. In addition, I would like to point out that the student organisation was only an intermediate article between student services and the budget fund. The data capture was thus not complete and up-to-date, as the concession fee was charged at actual costs per month and the student organisation of Slovenia indicated these amounts in the form of advances based on last year's data. With the amendment of the Act on additional concessions, concession funds will be transferred directly to the budget fund, not more via the SOS. The proposed solution thus facilitates the calculation and payment of the concession fee and, at the same time, the parallel control to be carried out by Durs, in short, by the State authority. In addition, I would like to point out that the remaining 3 million Slovenian tolls of budget money that the SOS has charged to the government to transfer funds between student services and the budget fund as a commission will be saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u157	Thank you, Mag. Lavrich. The draft law was also addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and prepared a report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Eva Irgl will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. As many of us as there are in this national council. In 2003 the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted for the obligations of the University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor and the Student Organisation of Slovenia, by which the SOS was to rent loans to co-finance the construction and renovation of student homes or residence facilities up to a total of 3 billion tolar capitals, all with the corresponding interest and credit costs. However, since the Student Organisation of Slovenia conditionalizes the rental of loans with co-ownership of student homes, which is not possible in the legal opinion of the Ministry, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposed in the proposal for a law that the credits which the Student Organisation of Slovenia would have rented under the original law would have been leased by the public institution of the Students' Homes in Ljubljana, the University of Maribor and the University of Primorsk. The law does not extend the scope of the guarantees issued by the State and is closely linked to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Additional Grants of Benefits paid for the occasional and temporary work of students and students; and today we will also treat it as the last item of the agenda. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the proposal for a law, which means first and foremost the resolution of the contractual obligations already adopted. The non-admission of the law would have serious consequences both for the financial obligations of the State and especially for the student population. In Slovenia there is an acute problem of lack of student rooms in all three locations, in Maribor, in Ljubljana and in Primorska, so any delay would only increase the problem. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are surprised that the leadership of the SOS in the previous composition in this important area has mainly pursued business interests ahead of the interests of the students. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we cannot agree that the SOS would become co-owner of student homes from the concession fee for the occasional and temporary work of students and students. This would sooner or later lead to attempts to abuse such acquired property for private purposes. Examples of the practice of some student services are still fresh. As the coalition agreement states, inter alia, that the coalition will support the improvement of the capacity of student homes, with particular attention to student families, we will support the proposed amendments and additions to the guarantee law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr. Rudolf, he's not here. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. While the Group of Social Democrats supports the adoption of the guarantee law, I must point out that there is something very wrong in a society in which one generation of the second generation does not believe. And that it would be time for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, to check whether doubts about the good purposes of the student organisation, which at the end of the year has virtually changed its leadership, and therefore it is not possible to develop some corrupt thinking or activity because they are virtually unable to anchor in some organisation, organization. At least what they study in principle is that they should study for a maximum of five years. So the law, which is justified in the way this proposal is based on, is actually a mockery of a society that is supposed to build its development on certain values. One of these values is confidence in man for sure. And society and government and the National Assembly, which do not believe in young students, I think we should think carefully about our system of values, and especially about our system of faith in man, who will eventually lead this country in a few years' time, the people who will lead this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr Testen will present the views of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Have a nice hello again. We will support the proposal in the New Slovenia Group. In 2003 the government adopted a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to rent credits from the University of Ljubljana, Maribor and the Student Organisation of Slovenia. The student organisation is expected to rent 3 billion tolars of credit to build and rebuild student homes. The credit is expected to be repaid from additional concession fees to be collected within 1% of the additional concession fees by the end of 2009, while the second 1% is intended to co-finance, extend and modernise the spatial conditions and technological equipment of universities in Slovenia. After 1.1.2010, we are expected to use the entire additional concession to build and rebuild homes, which is 2%. It should be said that an agreement was signed between the previous government and the Student Organisation of Slovenia in the period following the 2004 elections, a definitely controversial agreement on content and time for the ŠOS to become co-owner of student homes under the leased loan. This agreement is certainly disputed by the position of the Government, which signed the agreement at a time when, in our view, it was no longer competent. It also raises the question of how a student organisation should become owner on the basis of a concession fee, which is State resources and which the state forms for special purposes. A number of interviews took place between the Student Organisation of Slovenia and the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, in which the student organisation was to agree to rent a loan for the accepted guarantee and thus allow for the continuation of investments in student homes for which the Ministry had already signed contracts. I'm afraid it didn't come to an agreement. In order to resolve the situation, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology and the Ministry of Finance proposed a change to the law by becoming the institution of the public institution of the Students' Homes of Ljubljana instead of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the proposal of the law for two reasons in particular, in order to avoid the damage caused by the halting of works, which would certainly prolong and encourage the construction. We also support the objective pursued by the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology to reach additional accommodation facilities for students as soon as possible. I would like to point out once again that, in our view, concession fees are not funds that anyone could afford, in this case, the SOS, but are state resources and should also be treated as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u164	Mr President, thank you very much, distinguished Mr Secretary of State, co-workers, colleagues, colleagues, as much as he insists on us in this National Assembly and in these proceedings, but when we report time, we look very large at that time, not to say anything else. Members of the Slovenian People's Party Group will support the law under consideration, which aims to change the law under consideration on the part of the borrower for the missing funds for the construction and modernisation of spatial conditions, technological equipment and building of student premises. By stopping works in the area of the construction of these buildings, I think there would be irreparable damage. The government proposes to hire a loan from the borrower, namely that these are the Students' Homes of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor and the University of Primorska, and we are also surprised by the requests or unwillingness of the participation of the Slovenian People's Party, perhaps for the reasons mentioned by colleague Breda Pečanov. The law in question does not extend the scope of guarantees, nor will a new financial obligation be created for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, so Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will adopt the law under consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Those who cannot be directly convinced of this, could hardly believe that the ignorance can be as great as we are now when there are 12 or 13 Members missing from the topic that is not so insignificant. That is how I think it is necessary, however, to stress what this is really about. It is about allowing this bill to build student homes, however, to build and restore living capacities for young people, students, students, students, students. It is about making it possible to finance the construction of new spatial capabilities for the functioning of our universities, and it is about modernising ourselves to get new technological equipment. There will probably be more of us when we vote that this bill will be adopted, at least if some presence is not yet possible. In the DeSUS Group, we support what is the essence of this bill. We support because, of course, it would be too dangerous if it were allowed to slow down or even stop the construction for which we are earmarking these funds, and we support, of course, because it is one of the potentials of Slovenian society, Slovenian countries, of which we are very much fond. We will therefore support this bill, but we will support it, because it is a direct link, and that it would not be necessary to walk twice for this stage, including the law that we will talk about later, the law on additional concessions, because I think that the two are together that allow for the construction of more and newer student homes; and that we will be able to equip our universities more and better. The DeSUS Group supports this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u167	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - Third Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Lavrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u168	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act was approved by the Government in April this year and forwarded to the National Assembly on a regular basis. The basic objective of the amendment is to comply with the rules of the European legal order, in particular the directive governing financial conglomerates and the directive establishing a new organisational structure for financial services committees and the EU Commission, as well as to eliminate minor inconsistencies with certain other directives relating to insurance. As a particularly important change, I would like to point out the proposal for a new arrangement for the establishment or treatment of compensatory provisions. Since insurance companies will have to start using international accounting standards in Slovenia from 1.1.2007 and taking into account the fact that at the same time a directive which provides for the compulsory creation of insurance-type compensatory provisions is still in force, the law prescribes a solution which provides for the creation of compensatory provisions only in the insurance-type. However, compensatory provisions for all other types of insurance that will become excessive by the application of this law will have to be decommissioned by the insurance companies by 1.1.2007. The draft law also provides for amendments to the provisions defining the elements of the basic and additional capital of the insurance undertaking and the financial statements of the insurance undertakings. These changes are necessary for the entry into force of new Slovenian accounting standards, which have also introduced certain changes in the area of capital. It is also very important to propose a new definition of the type of business that an insurance undertaking can carry out in addition to insurance. It is therefore proposed that a solution allowing the insurance undertaking to also carry out a specific limited form of reinsurance and mediation activities in the purchase or sale of mutual funds' investment vouchers is proposed. In our view, such an expansion of business will strengthen the competitive position of insurance undertakings in the wider insurance market, in particular taking into account the fact that such transactions can also be carried out by insurance undertakings under the legislation of other EU Member States. The proposal also eliminates certain nomotechnical deficiencies and uncertainties or legal gaps that have been demonstrated in its implementation in practice. The Government considers that the solutions and the proposed changes are appropriate and necessary. On this occasion, I would also like to point out that the adoption of the amendment in the second reading of the draft law on the home working body has created a discrepancy between the provisions of the draft law, which will require a harmonisation amendment to Article 105 of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u169	Thank you, Mag. Lavrich. I now give the full floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views on the draft law. Mr Ferri Horvat will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Members and Members of the Social Democrats Group support the amendment of the law, particularly in the work which means adapting or coordinating the law with the regulation of the European Union. It is useful to expand the business range and consequently develop and offer new insurance products. Already in the debates and in particular in the second reading of the Social Democrats, we have focused on the greatest amendment of the law in force, at least the largest substantive amendment, that is to say, the equalisation clauses. We accept the argument that, in view of the adoption of international accounting standards with the amendment of the company law, it is necessary to suspend the design and decommissioning of reservations with the exception of credit insurance. Currently, however, the question remains of how to decommission reservations by 31.12.2006. Regrettably, in the second reading, we have not received a clear answer to the explicit question from this place, or Article 102(2) ensures that insurance undertakings decommissioned settlement provisions will be fully included in the additional capital items by 31.12.2006. This is true in view of the fact that our insurance companies in comparable European Union countries have indeed had higher level playing field, but at the same time had lower or insufficient capital adequacy. Therefore, in the vital interest of developing insurance, enhancing competitive capacity in a single or fully open European market and for penetration into other markets, it is very important that all insurance undertakings, irrespective of ownership, direct the established reservations between additional capital items without pre-taxation or consumption of such provisions for other purposes. Indeed, we have been assured by the Secretary of State already on the committee to examine the bill's proposal that where the State is the owner or co-owner, it will act both through the powers of the authorities to actually direct this reservation to capital. The question is what will happen in other insurance companies that have different ownership or are so-called private or foreign property. We believe that there too should be a consistent exercise of this principle in the interests of the insurance business and the interest of the national economy. And here I would like to ask for an explanation concerning this point 2 of Article 102. I am trying to make a positive or well-intentioned understanding of this text, so I would ask for at least confirmation that this dictatorship actually means that there will be automatic reservations that have not yet been broken down to fully channel them directly into capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament. Since something essential to the second reading has not changed substantively, I will briefly state the point of view or emphasis similar to that of the second reading. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the draft law mainly because it is primarily in line with Directives 2000/87 and 2005/1. The main substantive change, which we also support, is the partial abolition of balancing provisions. In Slovenia, at the end of 2005, we had 33 billion compensatory provisions; of that, 17 billion remain in the area of credit insurance, remains, 8 billion compensatory provisions have been allowed above the ceiling, for which 8 billion have already been paid the tax, so the profit tax remains 8 billion, which will have to be allocated to the income and, consequently, if the profit is to be paid, also the profit tax. In Novi Slovenije we also advocate that the profits generated as a result of the partial cancellation of the compensatory provisions shall not be allocated to salaries, prizes to supervisory committees and dividends. Wherever we have any influence as a coalition, we will advocate that as many of these funds be allocated to capital adequacy, which is very low or at the European level of eligibility. It can also be interesting that in all the years since 1994, since there have been compensatory reservations, we have not once used them for the purpose for which they were designed. It is also important that the amendment of the law gives insurance companies some other tasks in line with European regulation. In particular, it is important that, in part, they can also be part of the role of the reinsurance undertaking and that insurance companies can also deal with the purchase or sale of investment vouchers of mutual funds. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the amendment of the law and we are confident that, although it has been said by many that, as a result of the change in the law, the premiums will be increased, there is no reason for this change to take place in the area of premiums.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u174	Thank you, Mr President, the distinguished representatives and representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed amendments and additions to the Insurance Act or insurance companies seek to bring them into line with the European legal order, namely the Directives, in which the deadline for transposition into the Slovenian legal order expired after the final amendment of the Insurance Act, as well as with the Directives transposing certain amendments to the amended insurance law of 2004. The provisions on the establishment or treatment of compensatory provisions and technical provisions for the risk of major damage shall also be amended, while the obligation to set up compensatory provisions is maintained only in the insurance type of credit insurance, and the types of transactions that may be carried out by insurance undertakings in addition to insurance transactions shall be defined. The Regulation provides that the countervailing provisions no longer constitute the basis for technical provisions, but, according to their content, they are among the items of capital, so the law is subject to the provision of a solution requiring the creation of compensatory provisions only in the insurance type of credit insurance. However, any compensatory provisions other than compensatory provisions for insurance credits which will become excessive from the date of implementation of this Act will have to be reduced to zero by 1.1. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we accept the government's assurance that funds from the breakdown of these provisions in insurance companies, where the government acts as a direct or indirect owner, will flow into capital items and not into administrative and supervisory boards or dividends. With this assurance, and given that we are coordinating this law with the laws of the European Union, we will support the amendment of the Parliamentary Group's proposal and the amendment of the Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u175	Thank you. Mr Srečko Hvauc will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u176	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President, Your Honor. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act. Why? First of all, we support the harmonisation of our legislation with European or with some international requirements, in accordance with international accounting standards, this bill abolishes the creation of compensatory provisions in all types of insurance, except for the type of credit insurance. Insurance undertakings must include the current balance sheet situation in insurance lines among the available capital items, which we believe will be good, as this will result in an increase in capital and thus an increase in the relatively low capital adequacy of insurance undertakings. Another such harmonisation is compliance with the rules of the European acquis, namely certain Directives, in particular Directives 2002/87 and 2005/1. We also support the fact that, following the new scheme, insurance companies will also be able to carry out certain other activities in addition to insurance. However, it is possible for insurance undertakings to also carry out mediation activities in the purchase and sale of mutual funds investment vouchers. However, I would like to draw attention to another important novelty brought by this law, or amendment of the law, a novelty for insurers. It provides that the insurance contract must also contain the provisions on the cancellation of the contract, whether it can be cancelled at all or under what conditions it can be cancelled, and also the obligations of the insurance undertaking. In particular, it provides that the life insurance term shall be between 14 and 30 days. However, another such novelty, which is important for insurers, relates to life insurance, which will have to be determined in a new way on the insurance policy separately, how much of the premium is for savings and how much for insurance, which is a cost to the insurer. We believe that these two innovations are useful for the insured, or we will fully support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u177	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. A full discussion is under way on the proposal for a law. Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Cyril Testen. [[He's quitting.]] He wants mag. Milan M. Squeakle? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Regarding the law, we have already said that, according to my content - I will talk about this amendment a little later - it saves in some way and brings the European Directive into our legal order. But the particular problem is that, as with some ten other directives, the government is therefore late, even though these directives were adopted almost two years ago. However, we have a problem that, depending on how we vote in the amendment to Article 32, we cannot go beyond the view that, with the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, the Government, contrary to other laws, especially the law on non-discrimination by sex, actually introduces discrimination by sex into the Slovenian legal order, Article 7, paragraph 32. We will then further explain the amendment that considers that this possibility of discrimination by insurance companies would be reduced. Therefore, our support for the law will also be linked to the decision on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u179	Thank you. Does the general debate, or does the entire debate of the law, still have a word for it? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled, which we will be leading on the basis of the review of the amendments of 12 July 2006. I am putting to the debate paragraphs 32 and 3 of the amendments of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group. Who wants a word? Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u180	For those amendments, the third amendment, where we propose that insurance undertakings take into account the specific situation of the sex in the selection process and the risk assessment of insurance when premiums and exclusion of insurance related to life insurance and the insured group of life insurance are established, where, on the basis of relevant and accurate actuarial and statistical data, it is taken into account by the insurance authorities. What's this all about? Currently, Slovenian insurance companies use actuarial calculations for Germany, according to the local word, Western Germany, where the characteristic structure is different. It is therefore not entirely logical why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided that, regardless of the fact that the directive could allow for an exception to non-inclusion in the personal circumstances of the sex, this is now included in the text of the law itself. We propose an amendment whereby we say that these statistics, these actuarial data must be further approved by the Insurance Supervisory Agency as an independent agency that can assess whether actuarial and statistical data are accurate and relate to the population in the Republic of Slovenia and not to any other population. This I think would be right, we simply say this because if such an amendment is not adopted, then this law will increase the premium or reduce insurance rights for a million women or about a million men, depending on what types of insurance they are. And I would suggest that, after some of the so-called accident insurance cases and certain life insurance matters have been more precisely defined to fully support the amendment to Article 32. Everything else is somehow linked to the third point of this amendment, so of course I will not explain the others in any more detail.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u181	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendments to be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. Since we are scheduled to continue at 2 p.m. the 1st item of the agenda - questions of Members and Members, I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly and will continue at 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the continuation of the 1st item of the agenda, which is to questions from Members and Members. Under this item, three questions from members of the opposition and a question from the ruling coalition will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša, who I welcome very much. The first question will be asked by Saša Pece on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u183	The well-respected presence, equally important or at least equivalent, is that the state withdraws from the economy, as is the way the country withdraws and at what price. The fact is that despite the fact that a lot of us are deliberately or simply because of ignorance, the country forgets that the country is human and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, including you, Mr Janez Janša, you are merely managing and should, as a rule, pursue the objective that is in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. From this title, my question relates to two areas. For the first time in the pursuit area, it is our assessment that the negative targets pursued by the KAD are a force. The fact is that KAD is governed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. According to our assessment, the proposals that are taking place, and I know that such initiatives are opposed by many political parties in this National Assembly, are only to the detriment of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, in return for the loss of potential profits, that is to say, the loss of budget revenue from the title and for the account of some individuals who are this time, according to my own assessment, very close to you. From this title, I also think it is at odds with all the principles of morality, which should be announced in modern society, that one of your ministers is trying to present Members as people with ratings, on them, say, a million or two, and it also seems to me that I am confused with every common sense to stitch up a million or two Slovenian Tolars at the expense of the former President of the Republic of Slovenia, one of the holders of independence, and on the other hand to leave several billion to your capital friends. According to my assessment, the system of privatisation of that property that KAD has in hand, and it appears that it will take place, unless one of the government parties succeeds otherwise, one of them, not one, but the concrete, biggest robbery against citizens and citizens. On the other hand, I would also like to ask you about the sale of events. [[?]] or in connection with the New Bank of Maribor and the New Bank of Ljubljana. Otherwise, we all know that there is an interest in the so-called KD Group in acquiring ownership. We agree with you when you find that it is not a disaster, that the Belgian KBC has withdrawn, and that there is no need to pay too much attention to it. However, I would like to point out here the following fact or question, however you wish, of a number of Slovenian municipalities having apartments and protecting them in the form of a preliminary right after ten years. I'm asking you, it's a government option, it's prepared by the government. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u184	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u185	Thank you for your word. Thank you for asking. Privatisation or completion of privatisation is one of the measures that the government will implement during this mandate to a significant extent. To this end, we have also been properly organised. The advisory groups, which we have appointed last year, have put forward proposals practically for all key privatisation projects. On the basis of this work, the government has already established the concept of privatisation of the New Bank of Maribor and Telekom Slovenije, both proceedings starting this year. Within two months, the government will also address all other proposals, including the proposal to transform KAD and SOD into a portfolio investor. In most of these projects, we use a formula that would eventually maintain a quarter share plus one share in these institutions, banks, insurance companies, electricity systems and other companies, for example in Telekom, the country would retain a quarter share plus one share, with the possibility of affecting strategic decisions, the allocation of these companies, not with the possibility of affecting the business of these companies. At the end of this process, there will be some such structure. All procedures will be carried out in accordance with the timetable for both projects already approved by the Government and established. If you would like to know, I could present this to you both for the New Bank of Maribor and for Telekom, but we also presented this when both concepts were confirmed by the government. And as has already been said, within the next two months, the government will either confirm or amend, in short, the proposals of the other advisory groups. The procedures shall be carried out in accordance with the timetable adopted at the time of the adoption of the package of measures to implement economic and social reforms.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u186	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Pece, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u187	I wouldn't lie to you if I said it sounded when you started answering. Of course, I wouldn't lie about it, but I don't want to overdo it, and I don't want to link it to your answer. In the context of my question, I must admit, Mr Prime Minister, I am not so interested in the answer you have given. The purpose of my question is elsewhere. The aim is to reconsider whether you, who have scissors and linen in your hands, will allow this sale, according to my assessment of even crime, within the framework of the operation and sale of ownership of the KAD. So, I'm giving you this exclusively in mind and I'm asking you again, or I'm asking you, however you want, not to harm citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in return for the capital connections of your party and probably the people around you. On the other hand, I would also like to ask a supplementary question in connection with the so-called KD Group. As I said in the basic question, also in the sale of its assets, many Slovene municipalities introduced the so-called sale in almost 99% at 1% to keep it, but the ban on resale for the next 10 years. I am afraid that the sale of the largest Slovenian bank will take place, despite the fact that we have adopted a decision in the National Assembly in 94, despite the fact that it has been said that citizens and citizens will be paid for the resolution of the banking system. This did not happen, of course, despite the opposition of the National Party to just enforce this formula, which has been positively paid out in part of the local communities. And because you have also highlighted the formula in connection with the sale, you know, call me a fortune teller or whatever you want, in the first phase the pensioners will suffer in the way they expect, and then all other residents of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u188	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u189	There is probably no need to answer further because the Member has very sincerely admitted that he is not interested in the answers and that he does not ask questions because of the answers, obviously because of the things he wants to say about the question itself. The concern expressed regarding the sale of KAD's and SOD's shares may be in place, but this government or this government coalition has offered at the outset membership in the supervisory authorities, including the two funds, including the opposition parties; when it comes to both para-national funds, you have in the supervisory institutions of both of your people's funds. The Slovenian national party as well. I do not recall that at any time, when important decisions have been made over the past two or a half years or a year or a half, your representative would vote against you, have a direct view of what is happening in both para-State funds, more than I do, as Prime Minister who is not sitting there. I suggest you follow the suggestions, the events, the decisions, and the warning if you ever think anything's wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u190	Thank you. Mr. Pece, would you like to propose a debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u191	Ambassador Peče has expressed concern for your handling of our common assets. And Member Peca has grown tired of your answers throughout this mandate, which are always one and the same and far from being able to build any further policy on them. And, however, Mr Peca proposes the application of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, with this broad debate, that Member Peca, for the first time in this mandate, expects on the basis of your words, that is, if you are interested, we are prepared to tell you. Allow your majority of Members in this National Assembly to support an extended debate on the question of the delegation which has just been raised on the basis and application of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u192	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Pečet to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide today, in accordance with the timing of the assembly meeting, within half an hour of the vote, after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. The next one will ask the Prime Minister the question of mag. Milan M. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u193	Mr President, Members and Members, Citizens and Citizens! Mr Janša, on the 15th anniversary of Slovenian independence, you used great words in the Market of the Republic. You said it was necessary to protect citizens and citizens from the abuse of those who exploit their power. You were talking about the rules of play and control. You were talking about democracy. This is being maintained by supervisory institutions and bodies. I wonder: How do you assess cooperation or how three types of supervisory institutions or bodies work? Firstly: How do the supervisory authorities of SOD and KAD companies work, which cause many development opportunities to be lost and that small shareholders are damaged by tens of billions? What will you do to correct these trends so that companies such as Iskraemeco or Glass Rogaška Slatina will keep employees. Another time. How do the supervisory authorities work to draw European funds if we have 10 billion minus by the end of May this year because, as the Court of Auditors has determined, the Minister of Labour is working poorly and there is a risk that we will not be able to get more than 60 billion tolls of money from Europe back to Slovenia? And the third time. How should the money-laundering supervisory institution work if you abolish the anti-corruption commission, if you have unconstitutionally dismissed the director of the money-laundering office, because the commissions are needed to be hidden, and if you do not allow a state audit commission that is responsible for competition in 500 billion public procurements? How will you ensure an internal or external audit of the 63 billion contested purchases of military armoured personnel if no one controls you? Yesterday you suspended parliamentary control and this is now when we receive a report in the National Assembly on the use of almost 3 000 billion tolar spending in the first year of your government's mandate; and you did so at an extraordinary meeting when we should consider and support minorities in a neighbouring country when their rights under the Austrian State Treaty are exercised or violated. Mr. Jansha! So how do you assess your government's involvement with supervisory institutions? Please be specific.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u194	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u195	Thank you so much for asking. Looks like it's a really tough time today. As far as control is concerned, these issues have not begun to open now, the issues of control in democracy are ongoing since we have been building this system, and I think that we are in a stage in Slovenia today, when we can say that institutions work relatively well, sometimes there are some problems. Not only does this mandate come from, but it is necessary to be very honest here when it comes to the Court of Auditors' report on the use of European funds, this is the 2004 and 2005 report. It is also incorrect to note that the funds will not be used for 2006 on the basis of data from the end of May 2006 because the balance sheet is at the end of the year. Last year, too, the situation was similar at the beginning of the year, and in the end Slovenia came out of drawing on European funds as the most successful among the new members, so it is necessary to be balanced here. Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the supervisory institutions took place within the framework of the Constitution and the laws, is good. One such good example of cooperation, such as cooperation between the government and the Bank of Slovenia, which exercises independent control over banking institutions in preparing for the introduction of the euro. This is not only my assessment, it is also an assessment of the international institutions, which, I am sure, will prove relevant also next year, after we have completed the process. As regards the supervisory authorities of the two parastatal funds, which have been mentioned again, I say again that, unlike the previous term of office, this coalition has offered the whole opposition cooperation in these supervisory institutions. You have appointed your representatives, including to the Supervisory Board of the Capital Society, which was not in the previous term, your representative is present, receives material, you are directly informed of the matters themselves, you can exercise this control without any special problems. However, I think that in view of what you have said at the end of the question and the developments in the Public Finance and Budget Supervisory Commission, there is a mix of two things: one is decision-making and the other is control. Those who supervise something must be aware that they play a supervisory role, not a decision-making role. Here the responsibilities are shared, if they interfere, there is a conflict, chaos, and blockage. And you've caused this blockade on your committee, which is why these changes have also occurred. And this is a blockade in this particular case that affects very specific things, affects people's lives and health, and also as Prime Minister in such matters would expect more seriousness. This government has inherited a very complicated public procurement system, which cannot be changed overnight, although the new law will soon be ready. However, at present we still have a system in which the procedure envisaged by the European Directive for approximately one percent of all contracts, the largest ones, is applied to us virtually to the sum of 10 million. And it's the same procedure for 10 million or 10 or 15 billion. This causes serious complications in many cases, making it possible to block. Some notorious cases are known to the public. So that in cases where this is really urgent, this is cut off, an intervention law was proposed, which everyone was calling for, even in opposition benches, and when it came to deciding, you blocked it. And it's not a supervisory function, it's not a supervisory function, it's an abuse of an authority that should perform a supervisory function in order to decide or not to make a decision. And these things need to be made very clear. This government will be [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It will support all measures that will increase effective control, but will not allow them to interfere with jurisdiction, because it causes chaos. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u196	Thank you. Mr. Squeakl, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u197	Well, Mr. Janša, you obviously forgot to sit at the Prime Minister's office and not a weatherman. With your answer, no one can be satisfied, so I have an additional question. Since you've just returned from the United States, I hope the Republican President has told you how the Democrats and not the Republicans control him in Congress. The government majority can't control the government majority, and those who judge the use of public money can't control it. I hope you are also told that in democracy you cannot solve the problem of incompetent supervisors or incompetent ministers with media control. The figure of 10 billion minus with the European Union is facts, and the Court of Auditors' report is also. Today, I think everyone already knows that Minister Bručan would have been able to conclude an operating table contract 15 months ago if he hadn't gotten involved with donors and too powerful lobbying; but in this rescue operation, you used everything, even saying that you would take political responsibility for matters that the European Directive does not foresee because legal certainty is provided by the courts and independent institutions, not by the political institution of the government. I am pleased that you have such good judgment in the work of parliamentary supervision. I understand you don't want independent supervisors. No, because you don't want anyone watching you spend money on fancy palaces over public invitations. There is still no report of the Budget Control Office after 4 months. You said that unfriendly media, socialist thinking and political opponents prevent you from carrying out reforms, so I ask you: When will you, if ever, change your mind that you can only be controlled by your own? And last but not least, what's the next step? [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] in the abolition of institutions? [[...]] Who's next in line for a personal resignation?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u198	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u199	So thank you for this additional question or comment. I have to say, I've been sitting in this place for a relatively short period of time. For 10 years I have been sitting in the parliamentary benches, mostly in the opposition's benches, I know what parliamentary supervision is, I know what previous coalitions have been doing in this area, I know how much manoeuvre we have had and I can compare. Essentially more than someone who came here a year ago. And if ever, then this space of manoeuvre is now more than it was previously in any mandate. Give me one example of a decision being blocked by the budgetary control commission in previous mandates. I would very much like to hear such an example, even if it is a small matter, but not a question of life, such as the amendment of the law on revision, so that there are no fundamental dilemmas and reservations on our side. We agree that parliamentary supervision must exist. We were prepared to extend this institution to the para-state at the beginning of this mandate, saying, to the sector where the impact of the country is still present due to incomplete privatisation. We have offered you the appointment or suggestion of people to the supervisory councils, after a few months you have waived this right, so I suggest you first use all the instruments you have, which this coalition or government makes available for you to be present where decisions are made, and then you express very harsh criticisms.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u200	Thank you. Would you like to propose a debate? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u201	I would like to have a procedural discussion, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, second paragraph, of course, on the inappropriate answer to the question raised. First, of course, the Commission of the previous term did not address 156 reports of the Court of Auditors. The Commission has not blocked the decision in this mandate, but has caused Members of the ruling coalition to now form a law that will save you from the lobbyists. The lobbyists will no longer go around the government, but the State Audit Commission will be the one to decide in the event of life and death within three days without the government's political judgment on life and death. However, Mr Janša, and for even the Slovenian public, let us see what yesterday's self-absorbing of parliamentary control means. With most votes, the government will now find out. For the first time, that you approved Mercator's sale, fair and good trade, and that it is right that Slovenian taxpayers are harmed for up to 29 billion tolars that you control the newspaper Delo. Another time. It is true that without the authorization of 2.4 billion you have built a glass palace and that for almost 10 billion you will rebuild the palace at Gregorčičeva, a new meeting hall at Brdo pri Kranj and another government golf course at the heart of the cultural monument Lipica. That Minister Lukačič or Minister Drobnič should be attacked by the Court of Auditors when it finds faults for more than a billion and a half reckless spending on agricultural land, when [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] instructions, or with Minister Petty Officer, when he fails to draw on the European Union's resources, which is why we now have a very negative balance. [[..]] That the non-operational ministers are not responsible because they acted recklessly because you will not want to know about the Court's report. This means the abolition of parliamentary supervision. I suggest that during the summer - the storms will help, let us cool this hot hall - that the government think about its actions, ask the political parties of the coalition where you are going, and in the autumn talk about this inappropriate answer. If anyone needs to be tamed, I believe that Mr Tsukayat will be able to convene another extraordinary meeting. The executive branch without supervision is not a democracy that you advocated a few years ago, so let me quote you on the so-called citizens' initiative: "Something has to be done." Parliamentary opposition, civil society organisations and individuals should be allowed to express their views. You do not prevent this by abolishing parliamentary control. Something really needs to be done. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u202	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Cwickel to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide today, in accordance with the timing of the assembly meeting in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. Mr Aurelio Juri has the next word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u203	Thank you, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister. Slovenia, as a member of the United Nations and of the Union, then, on the basis of the resolutions of the World Organisation and on the basis of the conclusion of the Summit of the Military-Political Alliance two years ago, after active and direct cooperation of the Union in managing the situation in Iraq and, in particular, in training the Iraqi security forces, offered its assistance by sending four military instructors. On 12 January this year, the government took a decision on the posting, following a decision on 18 February, when the Slovenian Army officer and three of its deputies travelled through Naples to Baghdad and then to the nearby Al Rustamia training centre. As we all know, we discussed and decided at the very meeting of the National Assembly, convened by the opposition Members and Members five days before its launch, on 13 February, and adopted, on a proposal from the coalition, a binding decision for the government to quote, "after three months after the deployment of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to Iraq, the National Assembly shall inform the Government of the activities and experiences of the Slovenian soldiers and of the possible special security outcomes". Next week, it will be five months from the assignment, and we will informally find out that a group of four instructors are no longer in Al Rustami and are pursuing other tasks than those for which she left. We are monitoring what is happening in Iraq and how violence is escalating, not least in connection with the exacerbation of the Palestinian issue and the new Israeli aggression against the Palestinian territories, but unfortunately, it is also brewing in nearby Lebanon. On the part of the government, the government's required or at least expected - if not the other - for the sake of relations with your colleagues, colleagues in the coalition, there is still no response from the government. So we didn't get that information. I now offer you the opportunity to tell us today, Prime Minister: How are our instructors? What exactly are they doing? Where are they? Are they still safe? How are they feeling? What are their experiences? How do you rate their work? When will they finally be back? And: Will others or does the government insist on such cooperation regardless of the breakdown of the situation and the security situation in both Iraq and the entire Middle East? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u204	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u205	Thank you so much for asking. Before I reply to him, I would nevertheless say that, because today this debate on the role of the opposition is ongoing, in the previous term, when we were in this situation, the President of the National Assembly has never allowed the question to be raised only in the third round, after I have no more opportunity to answer. Now, as a rule, this happens by the abuse of the rules of procedure, and it raises or questions completely new unannounced things and things that cannot be answered. As far as the question concerning Iraq is concerned, the government had already sent the requested material or an answer. I do not know why it has not yet been addressed by the competent home committee of the National Assembly. I think we have already sent a report in early June on the operation of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces in NTM1, according to the NATO School Mission in Iraq. The government treated him and sent him, and I don't know where he got lost. Otherwise, the four members of the Slovenian Armed Forces in this NATO school mission are acting in accordance with the programme that has already been presented, even in accordance with the specialties they have, their activities and skills, it is the training of members of the Iraqi security forces, who are expected to take responsibility for order, peace and security in this country in the future. Slovenia sent instructors on the basis of the United Nations and according to the Government's decision to send instructors for six months with the possibility of rotation in view of the situation in Iraq. And given the treatment of these situations in the competent international bodies, the bodies of the United Nations and NATO, the assessment is currently such that this activity will continue. It is said that there will be rotation for the next six months, perhaps even for more, depending on the situation in Iraq. A unanimous assessment in NATO, including in the wider international community, including in that part of the international community that opposed military intervention in Iraq, is that now the only positive way out of this situation is by empowering the Iraqis to take care of their own security. This is not even the case in the United Nations Security Council, and the adoption of this resolution, which was the basis for our participation in the NATO School Mission, has also taken place. Instructors operate in a base that is specially protected, it is a safer area than that of the capital city of Iraq. There have been some attempts at endangering this area, too, but there have been no consequences, no casualties or injuries in these attempts, and no matter what the situation is in Iraq and which is very slowly stabilised, there are currently no assessments that would have found that the situation there is more dangerous than it was six months ago when this mission began. On this basis, work is going on normally and, as has already been said, it will take as long as the Iraqi security forces themselves are not able to carry out their tasks.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u206	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u207	Thank you, Mr. President. As a member of the Defence Committee and a member of the Foreign Policy Committee, I have not received this information, so I also ask the leadership of the National Assembly to verify that this information has been sent. It would be right for us to receive at least the members and members of these two committees. Last but not least, it was the responsibility of the government to provide information to all Members and Members, because this decision was adopted by the National Assembly. Well, I hope we get this information as soon as possible. Secondly, if you'll excuse me, there's a question in connection with the Iraqi crisis. Given that, Mr. President, you're coming from a conversation with the President of the United States of America Bush, I'm curious: what are the prospects for breaking up this crisis? Will the United States of America begin to withdraw? And: What assurance did the President of the United States give you that this crisis will unfold as those who unfortunately set it on fire? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u208	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u209	I have also answered this question in part before. It is not just the position of the United States; it is now a united position, confirmed or verified by a United Nations resolution, that Iraq must be helped to take care of peace, order and security on its own territory. Following the adoption of the Constitution and the holding of elections with high participation in Iraq, political institutions taking over political control in the country, in the northern part of Iraq, are slowly established, partly in the southern part of Iraq, where large areas have already gone into direct control of the Iraqi security forces. The problem remains the central area of Iraq and the Sunni Triangle, where, according to my personal assumptions, it will not be possible for at least a few years to ensure full control of the situation only through the help of domestic security forces. And the limited role of NATO, and probably the other countries participating in the military part of the Iraqi mission, will remain in this part. The worst possible solution would be for the international community to withdraw from Iraq in this situation. This would likely result in an inadvertent spread of civil or religious war, as well as a wider threat to the situation in this part of the world. This is certainly not what anyone wants, and in this regard also there is agreement where there was no agreement on the launch of this campaign.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u210	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Jakob Preseknik gave you the following question: When does the government plan to adopt legislation on the provinces? To what extent will the scope of the powers of the State be transferred to the provincial level? And: Will the relevant financial resources and administrative structures be transferred together with the powers? Since Mr President is excusedly absent today, I ask whether you want to answer his question nevertheless? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The question is important; now that the National Assembly has changed the Constitution, it has enabled a shorter process of establishing the provinces to be answered. Thank you, too, for the fact that a majority has been formed for this decision to be taken. This gave rise to real opportunities for Slovenia to actually decentralise itself in this mandate. After a decade and more of the talk can now move on to concrete activities and part of these activities will also be the preparation after the constitutional change and, on our part, the proposed four important laws: the law on landscapes, the law on the financing of landscapes, the law on the formation of landscapes and the law on elections to the provincial authorities. These four laws have practically already existed in the most working versions, some of them have been preparing for a long time. By the end of this year, the Government will be proposing an entire package of this legislation to the National Assembly, and we expect to adopt this legislation by mid-term, with the good will and cooperation of all those who have also supported the amendment of the Constitution. Now, the basic starting point will, of course, be decentralisation, in the transfer of powers and financial resources, the government will follow the principle of subsidiarity, which means that we will try everything that can be done at lower levels than the state, and transfer it there. At the same time, with the formation of the provinces, the municipalities have the sovereign right to combine certain things that are managed at the first level of local government at the second or provincial level. This will not be decided by the government, it will be the decision of the congregations. And in view of these principles, which I think, at least in principle, have very broad support in this high assembly, what major problems with these concrete measures should not be - if this is going to be as planned, and if there are no too many complications or attempts to block the adoption of certain solutions, we could probably end the election deadline for the next term of this national assembly, so that the elections to the provincial authorities will be carried out at the same time as the elections to the National Assembly in autumn 2008.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u212	Thank you. Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answers. This concludes this agenda item. I'm also adjourning the meeting and we'll resume in five minutes, that's at 2.47 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're continuing the meeting of the choir. We're going through 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTAL AMENDMENTS OF THE ADDITIONAL CONCESSIVE DETAILS FROM REVENUE PAID FOR PERSONAL AND TEMPORARY ACTS OF STUDENTS AND DIES. Please calm down. May I continue? The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Mr Dusan Lesjak, Secretary of State at the Ministry, you have the floor. Can I have a word with you about the pay phone, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, good morning. For the first time in my role, I apologize in advance for possible slippages. If I present the proposal and the general objectives of the amendment bill, it is a matter of simplifying the collection of money, eliminating one article, accelerating the cash flow, improving the control of monetary transactions, and saving the payment of the service for the provision of this money, which represents an annual 3 million tolar. The solution introduced by this law is a relative and easy to obtain financial resources; strictly intended nature, transparency of planning, continued rational use of resources over payment of the additional concession fee. The justification of this law will not constitute an additional financial burden for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and other public funds. The MVZT, as I have already mentioned, will save approximately 3 million dollars a year, which it has so far paid to the SOS for the provision of this service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u215	Thank you. The proposal for a law is to treat the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as a parent working body. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Evo Irgle, to present the report of the Committee. Please. Excuse me, the Committee's report will be presented by the chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudolf Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u216	I know I'm not as pretty as Eva, but you're gonna have to accept me. Good-bye, everyone. Initially, Minister Jure Zupan said on the Committee that the proposed law aims to simplify the collection of funds by 2% of the additional concession fee directly from organisations carrying out the intervention of temporary and occasional works for students and students. So far, these funds have been collected by the Slovenian Student Organisation, managed separately and fully allocated to the budget fund under the responsibility of the Ministry responsible for Higher Education, with a view to co-financing the construction and renovation of student housing facilities and equipping universities in accordance with the investment programme adopted by the Government. The solution introduced by this Act is a relatively simple flow of financial resources, of a strictly purposeful nature, of transparency of their planning, of continuity, of rational consumption and, in particular, of continuous control over the calculation and payment of the additional concession fee. The representative of the State Council Commission for Social Activities expressed support for the proposed solutions in the law. However, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has pointed out that the proposed amendment to the law defines as a source of the budgetary fund only the means of additional concession activities, and not the budgetary resources provided for in the budgets of the current years, as provided for in the law currently in force. Representatives of the Slovenian student organisation objected to the adoption of the law, stressing that the drafter of the law had not previously complied with their organisation in the framework of the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for student issues prior to its introduction into the procedure. They argued that, until now, the control of the collection and disposal of the additional concession fee had been appropriate and that no comments had been made by the Court of Auditors responsible for such supervision. They also disagree with the argument that, on the basis of the legislation adopted, the collection of additional concession activities should be simplified and more transparent and that this would reduce the manipulative costs of transferring an additional concession fee to the budget fund. In their view, the government terminates the contract with the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which was supposed to be valid until 2009 only because students refused to give up co-ownership of student homes in the amount of loans they were paid, as the previous government would have provided them. On the basis of the proposal for the Committee to vote on the finding that the law was not suitable for further consideration, the Committee held a general debate. In this debate, coalition parties considered that it was only a technical law that simplifies procedures and allows more control over the work of student services, so they see no reason not to adopt this law as soon as possible, even if it was not previously concluded with a student organisation, since the student organisation will not suffer any harm under this law. On the contrary, the representatives of the opposition felt that the law should not be adopted by emergency procedure, as there was no reasonable basis for such a procedure. The law not only regulates the techniques of fundraising for additional concession activities, but also relates to the issue of loans for co-financing of construction and the renovation of student housing facilities to be rented by the Student Organisation of Slovenia. In this regard, the issue remains open as to the possibility that the Student Organisation of Slovenia would become a proportionate owner of student homes built from the means of additional concession fee, although the Government considers that this is not possible because there is no legal basis for this. In contrast to the government, the opposition believes it would be good for the Student Organisation of Slovenia to become a proportional owner of student homes and would only use these facilities for the purpose for which they were built. The property acquired in this law could, however, be alienated or burdened only in agreement with the government. Following a broad general debate, the Committee on Higher Education and Scientific Technological Development did not adopt the proposed decision. In the debate on the amendments tabled by the Member Club, all its amendments were rejected, including the amendment proposing that the Student Organisation of Slovenia be a proportionate owner of student homes built from the means of additional concession fee. As its own, the Committee adopted three amendments, which were of a more editorial nature on the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which were included in the text of the amended proposal. I propose to the assembly that this supplementary proposal be adopted by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u217	Thank you, Mr. Mohet. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u218	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representative of the Government! First of all, the Group of Social Democrats would like to stress that it is aware of the importance of building the necessary accommodation facilities for students. However, we are aware that the government has also adopted a reform programme, after which higher education should be created differently in the future, but we have not received any answer to the question of how the need for accommodation in other cities, past the university centres we know so far - of course it is Ljubljana, Maribor, Koper and the new Novo Gorica. This is certainly to be taken into account, given that the drafter refers only to certain aspects of amendments to the law, but does not point to some essential aspects. Therefore, it was also possible for coalition parties to hear that it was only a technical law and, in fact, it was also presented by the proposer that it was only a matter of simplifying the collection of funds, which I am now quoting, "produced a relatively simple flow of financial resources". One wonders why we should make such a change if we are not sure that simplification will be reliable. Secondly, what I would like to say on behalf of the Group of Members. If this is really just a technical law, why, then, neither in the objectives nor later in the answers to the questions, did he say that he had actually hidden a significant change, namely, that the fund, which was supposed to provide housing capacities, the renewal of housing capacities and also investments in certain other higher education programmes, was not included in the fund, why he did not say that he had excluded another part of the very important resources that the fund was supposed to supply. The fund is expected to be recharged only from an additional concession fee, and it has disappeared and has exhausted the government's budgetary obligation to allocate funds to the fund. Indeed, it is only this fund that would enrich and provide the necessary resources, which would also provide sufficient planning and investment in this area. And this is also one of the fundamental reasons why the Group of Social Democrats of this law will not support it. The considerations of the urgency procedure have already been expressed on the Committee and are also irrelevant at this point, as the procedure cannot be amended any longer, but it should be considered how the urgency of the procedure in the interpretation of the law is justified and justified in such a way that it does not persist. It is also the intention of the proposer to improve control - and who is the one who will only have control? If we find out how the government takes the right to reduce independent control of its operations, it takes the right to control its acquisition of funds and in no way has it been able to answer those questions and concerns that were raised in view of the fact that the obvious was very clear that the funds did not flow at an appropriate level. However, it was clearly found that this was more of a "over the thumb" calculation than on the basis of accurate indications. Thus, there are more than enough reasons why the Socialist Group of Members will not support this law. Finally, let me just make one last argument. This law, like some others we have been dealing with lately, is not in line with one of the key partners, and this is a student organisation. If the agreement has not been reached and the negotiations have been suspended, the government has full responsibility for inviting students to negotiate. This is not the case with the name of the body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u219	Thank you very much. A nice welcome to all together and thank the President for his leadership so far! But to my word, I'd like to invite a magician. Capudra to present the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! In 2003, two laws were adopted to address the issue of construction, modernisation and renovation of student homes. This is the law on additional concession fees paid for the occasional and temporary work of students and students and the law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor and the Student Organisation of Slovenia on credits to be rented for this purpose of construction and modernisation, which is the purpose of updating and building student homes. Under the Act on additional concessions, the fund must be collected at a rate of 2% of the student organisation to manage it separately and to fully allocate it to the special budget fund under the responsibility of the Ministry responsible for higher education. The method of decommissioning was laid down in a special contract concluded between the Ministry and the student organisation. The only objective of the proposed law is to simplify the collection or direct collection of additional concession fees from organisations that provide temporary and occasional work to students and students, and therefore we have appointed this law as a technical law. Article 3 of the Law provides that the calculation of the additional concession fee shall be made directly to the tax authority of the organisations carrying out the activity of intervention of students and students. The proposed solution makes it possible to simplify the charging and payment of the additional concession fee while providing indirect supervision, since everything is carried out by the same competent authority. Such a solution is good in the opinion of New Slovenia, since it ensures the exercise of control, resulting in the possibility of control over who performs all or benefits of student work. So, everything that you're all - I hope to be honest - we're trying to control a student's work, which we all find is being abused. That is why in New Slovenia we are surprised by yesterday's public statement by the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which was recorded in the electronic edition of Del. They said that with the amendments to both laws, there would be even less money to build student homes. They added that, as a result of these changes, new funding for the construction of student homes will be made available to the integrated budget and will therefore be unable to transfer each year, at the end of the financial year, to the next financial year. That's what it says in Del's electronics release. The representatives of the students in this statement also assess that the project is being redefined by the renovation and construction of student capacities and the institutional deletion of the SOS from the two legislative acts. Such a statement by the SOS is a purely misleading statement to the public, as the money from the additional concession fee, as so far as it has been, will flow into a special budget rather than into an integrated budget, as the representatives of the SOS have stated in their statement. I don't know why and I can't understand why the presidents of the SCHOS are afraid of the transparency brought about by the amendment of the law on additional concessions. Representatives of the Student Organisation must be aware that the funds for the additional concessional benefits are funds that are strictly earmarked and that they are State resources, and above all it is not the basic task of the student organisation to channel money through it, which has a precise legal path to the special fund. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposed changes to the law. However, the LDS amendments cannot be supported because we believe that the proposed legal solutions are good and that they regulate things in a transparent way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u221	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. Kramberger to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to the representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the additional concession fee paid for the occasional and temporary work of students and students will be supported in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. In fact, we estimate that this is a law that we can peacefully refer to as a technical law. The aim of the law is in particular to simplify the collection of strictly earmarked funds and this amendment of the law introduces transparency as well as indirect control of the system. We estimate that such a change is necessary, and we are confident that the purpose of the law, which is enshrined in the objectives of the law, will also be achieved after adoption. So, we will support the law together with the proposed amendments that have been adopted on the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u223	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Zgajner Tavš to present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u224	Thank you so much for saying that. An additional concession fee of 2% must be managed separately by the Student Organisation of Slovenia following the current arrangements and, of course, fully allocated to the budget fund under the responsibility of the Ministry responsible for higher education. The method of decommissioning was laid down in the contract on the method of transfer of funds for the extension of student housing capacity and, of course, the extension and modernisation of the spatial conditions and technological equipment of universities. The new law is not related to the law of the European Union, and this is also a government finding. The fact is also that the system of student work, as we or we know in the Republic of Slovenia, is in fact well escaped by "unique" and that even the EU does not require only a uniform system of organisation of student work. The Government lists among the reasons for this amendment the simplification of the collection of additional concession fee funds directly from organisations engaged in the intervention of temporary and occasional works for students and students. This type of work is therefore intended to directly point to the competent ministry, the Ministry of Higher Education, after the new student service as job intermediaries. It is expected, as we have heard, to make it easier to obtain financial resources of a strictly purposeful nature, including by greater control over the calculation and payment of the additional concession fee. In the course of the discussion, the working body has been exposed and it has also been argued that the Ministry is among the reasons for, I will say, the necessary changes have given a bunch of false and misleading data. For example, the government pointed out that the student organisation did not allocate all the funds that the data should have been wrong because they were calculated on the basis of the wrong items. How, then, will the Ministry be able only to provide and choose these funds? That 3 million Slovenian tolls, as far as the student organisation receives at the annual level for the transmission of data, may be over-costed, this can be confirmed if we take into account the state's stepfather's position in the allocation of budgetary resources to individual societies from different areas, such as those dealing with psychosocial assistance to the child; however, with all the presented, deliberately misleading data from the Ministry of Higher Education, it is, last but not least, difficult to believe that the new system for the collection of concessions will be significantly cheaper, in the fact that student services, for example, do not yet have organised this system and that it is also necessary to place and pay a human being. The Ministry also presented this general assessment without any calculations or, if you wish, in mind. Another important fact is that we are talking about an additional concession fee from the so-called student work. These funds are of a strictly purposeful nature. It's about building a home, updating the infrastructure and so on. To this end, in the past, a so-called budget fund has been established within the Ministry, where funds have been collected and also funds raised, i.e. funds for precisely defined purposes. This amendment repeals the existing fund or budget item. This illogical absurdity of the Foreign Minister, who literally spits in his own bowl, has also been pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service, but despite further consultations, the Coalition Members have decided otherwise and have abolished the dedicated fund. So much for those well-intentioned government moves about the real tendency for multiple student beds, homes and so on. However, this law or amendment of this law is largely related to another law that we are opening and correcting at this meeting. It is a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the University of Ljubljana, Maribor and student organisations of Slovenia. The country will be after the new tenant [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] loans and the only owner of built student capacities. [[...]] It is obvious that the state wants to regulate matters in the higher education field itself, past for this interested and also competent partner. Here, I am afraid, the interests of the affected population will not be taken into account to a large extent if they are at all, and there will be an event, a hand to the heart, depending solely on the will of the policy. Well, a minister who should [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] to represent and act in the interests of its department, but it is already subordinated to the basic moves. [[...]] In the Slovenian National Party - and I will now say a little cynical - technical law under the urgent procedure cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u225	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Irgle to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and honourable Members, Representative of the Ministry! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we agree with the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on additional concession fees paid for the occasional and temporary work of students and students, which was transmitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the legislative procedure. It is true that the proposed amendment to the law is short, but it significantly simplifies the collection of money generated by paying additional concession fees, which employers must pay in the course of their student and student work. This law could be said to be of a technical nature in particular, since it is almost without prejudice to the content of the law and the amount of concession fees. In addition to simplification, this law also allows for better control over the payment of money, which is also in line with the requirements of the student organisation. So far, it has been necessary to conclude a four-party contract between individual ministries and student services for money transfers. In this respect, the greatest disadvantage was that virtually none of the parties had any option or were limited in the payment and transfer of money. The new bill introduces a completely simple contract to direct this money to a special, strictly dedicated account of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology without any intervention. These changes will lead to greater transparency in payment and thus less abuse, faster flow of money to those projects for which this money is intended, and, last but not least, a reduction in costs arising from a number of monetary transactions. In order to simplify the way funds are raised, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology will save around 3 million dollars annually. And in a situation where money is lacking for student homes, any such rationalisation should be welcomed and we should be aware of it both in the opposition and in the Student Organisation of Slovenia. At the same time, the Slovenian Democratic Party also fully rejects the allegations and concerns expressed by the opposition and representatives of the SOS at the meeting of the home labour body, namely that these changes affect the autonomy of students. We reiterate that these changes are only about simplifying the collection of money, which will be collected in one place on purpose and will be spent on purpose. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we fully agree with and support the proposed amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u227	Thank you very much. And Dr. Gaber will be the last to speak on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! We have before us a law that is unnecessary, concessions or concession fee is currently being collected and is being collected in an appropriate account; the Student Organisation of Slovenia collects funds in parallel when it collects benefits from the concession also for the purpose of the operation of the student organisation. The law that we have before us will be contrary to what we have already heard today, and especially with what we have heard on the committee, it will require additional work for employees at the Ministry, and it is quite likely that because we do not believe that there are people who have nothing to do there, there are additional jobs. The cost will therefore increase and the flow of fund-raising will be cut short. The Minister does not therefore know why the law has been proposed, or whether the purpose of the law is not at all what he himself has explained to us on the Committee, i.e. greater transparency in raising funds and accelerating the construction of student homes in particular. It all shows that there is something completely different, for we have another set of crusader laws ahead of us, and the purpose is simple and can be divided into two parts. First, he wants the Prime Minister and, of course, for him, the Minister Dr. Zupan to depreciate the Student Organisation of Slovenia, to get rid of it wherever possible, and to exclude it from the partner business to the country. In doing so, it is necessary for the SCHOS to take away the possibility of co-forming the conditions of student and student residence during the course of the study, in fact, because both the Prime Minister and the Minister are well-known political supporters under the slogan: 'the state is me', and it is not surprising. At the same time, the ruling coalition will move rapidly into the nature of the fund, which has given higher education a whole special place in the use of budgetary resources. We have also been particularly alerted by the Secretariat or the Legislative Service of this National Assembly. As it has been so far, and this moment, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is still true that the funds allocated to this fund are also allocated to the state budget, and this will not be the case any more. It is especially surprising that this fund is changing in this way at a time when the government is talking a lot about the importance of knowledge for this country and is talking about a special place of higher education in this country's system. The government and the coalition have a mouthful of humanity, patriotism, good looks for young people, care for development and the like, with this law, which they call technical law, they perform a couple of exercises in Parliament. The first is an exercise in translation, we are talking about a technical law, which "de facto" in the core interferes with the logic of the law. Secondly, they exercise the power reduction exercise of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. Thirdly, higher education in Slovenia is informed that their words do not show, especially those of the great importance of higher education, to take seriously. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia does not want to participate in this business and we will therefore not support this law. Here today we have the Secretary of State, who is neither guilty nor responsible for this work, so it would be best to ask the Minister with a proposal to reconsider why he really needs this work and, if he can by chance, to propose to the coalition that the law does not support it, because it is directed at students, against higher education in Slovenia and is one of the most unimaginable laws, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] which we have received in this House so far. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u229	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the Member States. We are moving on to a second reading, this is to the debate on the three articles and three amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 13 July 2006. And I am putting first in the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Mag. Spending, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u230	[[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] Thank you for your warning, Mr. Petan. [[...]] I've been considering this a more friendly gesture lately. Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would like to express my support for this amendment, which is trying to get to the original text of the law and does not destroy what it wants to introduce the new law. Once again, between the objectives, principles and the main solutions of the proposed law, the proponents have highlighted only a simplified collection of funds. Let's leave that now whether it's relative or not, but just that, "collecting funds directly from organisations that provide student work", and the Student Organisation of Slovenia is released. It is also stated here in these solutions that it will be easier to identify these funds in a way that will make them more precise in nature, so that there will be greater continuity, rational consumption, constant control over the calculation and payment of the additional concession fee. If you allow, all these elements should be provided by the government or the Ministry by now. I have only concerns about permanence. In fact, the experience of how much of the concession fee, not part of it, is 2%, but how much of the concession fee is collected is unpredictable and it is assumed that it may decrease in the future, depending on how it is limited, how it reduces the scope of the student work. In 2004, this was about 80 billion, in 2005 about 60 billion. How it's gonna be in 2006, you don't know. Interestingly, the government has taken account of only the largest amount at all times, but never of the smallest amount. And now I move on to the essence of my support for this amendment. The article now reads in the last sentence or the last words of the first paragraph: "The source of the financing of the budget fund is an additional concession fee under this law". It turned out what I had previously warned that budgetary resources are also being made available to the Fund, as far as possible. These are highly earmarked means of investment in capacity and in better technological equipment of universities. This is said not to be used for any other purpose, but only from the budget, public funds are also provided for this, in addition to the concession fee, in order to make more of this. And I don't understand the proposaler who's talking about how he feels about capacity being increased to improve the technological equipment of universities, but suggests cutting it down. I understand that the proposaler may be embarrassed and that he does not have the necessary budgetary resources in the 2006 budget, but that is why there is a budget rebalancing. However, I am seriously concerned about how it will implement and deliver high expectations about what can be done from this budget. And what really bothers me about all of this is that from this triangle, the ministry, the student organization and the organizations that provide the work are drawn students. Because this is not the first case that the government is trying to exclude students as interlocutors, it seems particularly irresponsible to me because the student organisation has signed a contract that is due to be valid until 2009. And this treaty cannot be broken unless, of course, it changes the law. And that is why I will support the proposal of the Liberal Democracy Club to return to the original text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u231	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Germich to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u232	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! When I read the laws, which are also part of the agendas of this session, I would like to ask myself whether this government is seriously pursuing the goals that we have somehow set together. And one of the objectives is certainly prosperity, another is to raise the educational structure of the population, create a better and more creative job, more of these jobs, and to build a knowledge-based society. Of course, it is very important to draw attention to the fact that such objectives can only be achieved through the greatest possible consensus. And I wonder if we're on this road when we're able to talk. Over the past day, we have considered the Social Security Act, where we say that from this government's strategy, employment will be one, two, three levels, or all levels below the level of education achieved. I do not agree with such an approach, and I have already said that in addressing this law. On the other hand, the Minister for that area says that he will represent workers who will share this destiny, perspective, and nurture the value of the family as a basic unit who will be willing to care for its survival and ensure consistent social security. Here today we are saying that we are offering students something that means that we do not want to see them as partners who make a significant future, that is, tomorrow. Today, and if we have followed the debate on the working body, it has been said many times that the arguments that the government has made in the introduction today in support of this law will be said to be savings, there will be simplification, there will be transparency. Accurate reading of the matrimonial working body's magnetogram shows how students respond responsibly to such simple arguments from the government to justify this law. It is very difficult to say that the purpose of this law is precisely this, for the explanations are on very thin ice. Of course, the goal is essential elsewhere, and this is to bypass students in co-forming, not to say co-decision, in co-forming very important development issues. Today, when we talk about filling up the fund - that is, the source of funding for the budget fund is an additional concession fee under this law, we are trying to make an amendment in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to show that this can only lead to the fact that there will be a delay in the construction and renovation of student housing facilities or that the slowing down of co-financing of the expansion and modernisation of spatial conditions and technological equipment of universities. Why can we say that? Because it is very simple logic to say that the exclusion of students and students from the talks on creating an important issue, i.e. how students guarantee their social status, this is through student work, can lead to significantly less funding from the student work, because students can also react by not wanting to participate in the student work, which will then be a key, fundamental and only source of supply for this fund. We have talked about basic development programmes in the field of education and we are integrating this issue into the budget as an investment programme. It is apparent from the committee's magnetogram that the problem and logic of the budget were said to be different. I'm just asking you if the budget fund for health investments is different. There was a decision to keep these funds in line so that the investments held over the past years would have a dynamic in one year and we would not lose resources through the budget. This means that this form in the budget exists, we are, through these means, holding this dynamic of investment in health care, of course, here arguments that would say that, of course, it is not possible to do so here, too, the government does not have. Of course, this concerns the very attitude towards this adoption of the law, where we say that everything has to be regulated following an urgent procedure, with the various parliamentary groups saying today that the system works and that if you very carefully analyzed the figures presented on the working body, it was very difficult to challenge or the government actually had no argument that the issue was that money was being lost somewhere, that there would be increased simplification and that transparency would be significantly greater. So we have not heard these arguments either on the Committee or today. Of course, the government is also in this article giving up partnership in co-forming and denying itself to an important source through the budget, and of course I am asking myself whether we will be able to follow the dynamics of development both in building student homes or in modernising and building technological progress at universities, if, of course, we are so carelessly saying that we will not be directing this fund of resources from the budget if they remain, say, unused in an ongoing year. It was also said that the system itself, which is now in force, is somehow harmful. Nowhere was it possible to trace the argumented fact that the system currently in operation did not correspond. Here we need to draw attention to another fact. 2% of the concession activity is only one part of the concession activity that is collected. And the relationship between 2% and 10% is very connected and the argument that control will now be significantly better is, of course, on torn legs, because those who are mainly powered by this source will have a very strong interest in monitoring what is 10%, because this will also be subject to an additional 2%. It seems to me that this is in a very important correlation, which should be taken into account. I will somehow conclude this debate on this article with the fact that, of course, this debate will be very important and also related to the debate when we consider another law tomorrow that speaks of the division of these 10% of the concession. The question is whether this law and the law that speaks of that content have the same purpose: this is to move students away from the processes of co-forming tomorrow to move them away as a partner in a dialogue to find solutions, so that at some point they say they see tomorrow differently than someone else in their head. I would, of course, like wisdom to prevail in this house as well, and in terms of re-thinking, I would like to support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy, which speaks of a better solution in the old text and that, of course, the deletion of this article is correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u233	Thank you very much. As you have seen, however, I have decided that I have allowed a slightly broader debate, because this article itself is quite broad, so that I will allow others to do so further. Mr. Petan has the floor. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honor! This article, the amendment states that the article is deleted, which means that it remains as it did with the other articles. We have heard something about the objectives, principles and purposes today, and perhaps I would add little more to the mediation of the SCOs, student organisations. But to be clear, when I say "SHOS," I don't mean "students," because these are two different things, the light distances are between them. And with regard to concrete projects and programmes and the dynamics of building student homes and technological upgrades and so on, as discussed here, about these two percentages and what the government should be regulating so far, I might read to you what is written on a large scale these days and also report elsewhere how it can be controlled, if there is some business secret, how it can be controlled. The media received the SOS business report in one way or another, and this is the one through which the funds referred to as business secrets are referred to, although there is no legal basis for this, since the SOS is not a legal person of private law, but public and all the information on financing is supposed to be public use of money. But he had a secret that no one could see him. The report states that the Secretary-General, who was appointed last April for a two-year term of office, out of a total of about 3 billion tolars worth of study cake, received an incredible 13 million dollars, of which 9 million was for basic salary, and he also spent a lot on telephone services, about 25 thousand per month. How long has it been for Members of Parliament? [[...]] [[Intermediate conversation.]] He also paid a good 100,000 toll prize, also received more than 200,000 tolls of annual regression, and spent nearly 140,000 more on depreciation. [[...]] That's what 13 million has spent for a whole year, about that came to him. How many MPs do we have? Anybody come in for $13 million a year? You don't have to answer that. [[...]] [[Intermediate conversation.]] For different projects, about what we're also talking about in that 10% marriage, which we're going to talk about tomorrow, and last week we talked a lot about huge projects, that someone won't be able to get them now, if it's going to be 50:50 or 37:50, 35 for scholarships, because now there's virtually nothing for scholarships. [[...]] For those famous projects, 15.3 million tolars were made of this whole cake, of which the project cost 2 million tolars. Thus, in 2005, the SOS spent 120 million tolars, half of them more than half for wages and fees, behind - I will not read because it is irrelevant. But it's about one for one, and that's about how it was done under a business secret. Now, if we move on, then with that kind of information, it's just one, it's probably a small sea. With such information, the big words about projects for young people, that they are pushed aside to ignore them, completely fade, and in this light, this law, which will allow the funds to be directly indicated, I will say, without being necessary, directly screams after this happens. And after all this reading, you start to wonder, because the hell then it's perfectly clear why the dynamic of building student homes and equipping universities is like, if things like this happen, it's all suddenly a business secret. This is said to be everywhere where something indirectly via transmission is passed on to some money, there is a probability - it is not necessarily that it is, but the probability is theoretical, the mechanism is built into so that something can be lost. It doesn't have to be, but it's built in, the mechanism is built in, it's built in, it gives you the opportunity to get lost somewhere. And why should we do that, if the purpose is determined in one way or another, then it is better for us to go from Maribor to Ljubljana directly but not through Budapest. Why would we go across Budapest? All right, let's each answer it. And once again, I'd say if we were talking about content like this tomorrow we're going to talk about. This does not mean that we will cut students off from something; away from it. I am talking about student organisations, which, compared to students of the light-years apart, and also in this context, it will probably be worth discussing tomorrow, what is 10% of them. Now we're talking only about these 2%, the special ones that we've adopted by special law - about those 10% division concessions or 50:50, just like now; and how many more of these things are going to be strictly protected by the secret. Or is it still worth 50:50 and student service, but is it only worth spending 30% on scholarships? Now it's not just the S.H.I.E.L.D., but here are the students. And if we take those -- or we don't give them for scholarships, then we can say that we didn't give students something -- in this case, because we haven't given them yet. We could talk about students here. In this case, we cannot talk about students, but more about their organisations, these are two different categories. And I ask you, how many students are there who can boast of such data - students I say, officials are something else again! And it is also necessary to adopt this law in order to be able to say that their organisations and students themselves are a little closer, because then there will be no such secret, secret reports and not such data, that we Members will also ask ourselves where we are in such a category, and we will find that we are a little lower or even a little bit lower - and then this law becomes completely necessary and logical. One might wonder why this has never happened before, or why such a transmission was needed. That's the basic question. The bad news is, if we're gonna direct something, we're not gonna take anything from anyone yet. But the goal will be closer to achieving it. And once again, if we have to come from Maribor to Ljubljana, we will be able to come directly and quickly on the Styrian highway rather than on a transport, via a transmission, via Budapest. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is, and I'm not going to support this amendment, and I'm not going to support the next one, but I'm going to support the basic law, because the intention is purely real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u235	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Mojet's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Because I'm also a physicist who doesn't know, I'd like to talk about this distance of light years first. If the student organization is light-years away from students from these arguments, then it is certainly the same logic of the church as protection with property, light-years away from believers and then we are also away from the politics of light-years from the people we represent. And that argument doesn't hold up at all. However, I think, Mr Vice-President, because you have left a little broader consideration that, in fact, through procedural fraud, we have to use Members, so that in this dictatorship of the coalition we can express and say what we think. Look, colleagues and colleagues, all three cases are the same: the law on higher education, the law on guarantees and this law on concessions, they were all by emergency procedure. The College has decided differently, but the coalition's cylindrical leader here in the National Assembly has again put this thing first, and thus Members, when we accept these things, are for the first time unquality. Secondly, they won't let us tell ourselves what we think and what the professional public thinks, and because of this amendment, there are abused procedural possibilities to talk about where I'm talking and what we're being paid to say that we think. I think that when all this stuff, especially the law on higher education, which is still important, is adopted in the short run, we might ask ourselves, "Who's afraid of Virginia Wolf?" The second question was: Why is he afraid? And it seems to me that with such solutions, where the interested public is not contacted and left behind or left behind, the professional public is involved in this system of decision-making that is affecting more than one totalitarian regime than one democratic regime. And in the area of higher education, we should not afford it, we should be ashamed to work in this segment in this way in the National Assembly. See, already that all three laws, i.e. this one - are not in line with the Student Organisation of Slovenia and that the student organisation of Article 1 that we are talking about now also opposes what colleague Majda Potrate already said in the opening presentation and even later at the presentation of this amendment, shows that we do not care what students say or their representatives in the student organisation. In the first law that we don't care what universities say, maybe the world for higher education as an expert. I think we should start with this behavior and with this part of the government's segment in these reforms, such as these, not the headaches, but you should start a headache for the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, and not least for the minister responsible for this segment. I think that if these "laws" are said to be changing some changes and, after the content, deep cuts into the system that was set up, that is how they are resolved, I ask myself, "Madona, when we have adopted here an almost unanimous resolution on how Slovenia will go forward, no one asks where the national higher education programme is!" Not to say anything else! It seems to me that if we are already breaking down here and digging a ditch with each other, we are working with each other on the spears, that it cannot be good for this country, that it cannot be good for the citizens of this country. If we had a pretty normal procedure, we could, uh, excuse the expression, "cough" at the first reading, the second one would go as if we were going, and the third one would go as if we were going to go and get a little bit to the end. Not that what I mentioned earlier, we need to use all procedural tricks to say what we mean. Now, here's the other thing. This law is not alone, this law is related to other laws, of those two which I have already mentioned, that is, certain emergency programs in education and education, where there are also sections for which items are set, from which certain funds can be obtained for the construction of student homes. We are in those laws when we implemented them, because they have always been under the shock of the budget, we have drawn not as much money as is provided in the law, but inadequately smaller resources, and the minister who did not have the fund in this way has lost huge resources in the rebalancing process. And if we had listened to the ministry when we proposed and supported this solution, it would not have happened, because we would have our own fund, which would have been transferred in the next year and could have been drawn from it. If anything, we should at least leave this part of the legislation or Article 1 in its form as it is. That is why I think - this is my personal - that this whole trinity of legislation is designed to discipline the Student Organisation of Slovenia in order to exert some pressure on them. I think that this is how accounting with a student organisation, where students are taken as the worst opponent, but not as a partner with whom they communicate, leads, of course, to the fact that this policy is far away from people, far away from the goals that all should have together. I wonder how this partnership and the willingness to engage in dialogue will be renewed, as it has been highlighted at the political level, and then established at the level. I have no doubt, given the voting machine that we have experienced so far, that this law, as proposed by the Committee, will certainly be voted, but that the whole trinity - went exactly the same way in all three cases: the law on higher education, the law on guarantees and the law on concessions, this trinity - that it is a great earpiece to the Student Organisation of Slovenia and is also a proprietary for this organisation; some think so. And I don't think that's true. We had people who wrote, "You won't be us, you'll never be us!" And I think that this will apply to students, because if they are treated the way they are treated, I don't know, because I firmly believe that they are healthy, honest people, but not some masochists, and the time will come when the elections show what kind of relationship has been between any of the political options and the individual segment of this society. I would therefore like to ask you that at least this article, which does not talk about how funds are transferred, but that this fund remains, not only to be fed from these concessions, but to remain fully. So I'd like to ask you if there's anything else we can do to accept this article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Let me just explain that I don't tolerate any business fraud, but I always have doubts about freedom of speech because we are in Parliament because we are in the temple of democracy and we must be proud of it. The word has magic. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A colleague in front of me asked himself, "Who's afraid of Virginia Wolf?" I would ask myself, ‘ Who is afraid of transparency? Apparently, the students. Because I feel that in our country everything the government does is within a student theme, even though it has talked a lot and coordinated with students within a project, an attack on a student organisation. Everything is declared an attack on the student organization and their work. I can't agree with that. On the other hand, we continue to listen to statements that it is the disciplining of a student organization, the guilt of their spines, the guilt of their rebelliousness. And I ask what, in a given case, when we change this law, what does guilt mean in this case - just that the money goes directly from the one who owes money to the state or to the special fund not to go through the student organisation. Is that guilt? [[Ad in the background.]] Yeah, that's guilt, that's how I get it. That because we are trying to make things transparent, transparent - yes, transparent and transparent. Okay, even if I say it three times in the same way, Mrs. Potter, someone doesn't understand it. And this law will only be made to know exactly how much money was earned or how much money needed to be paid for the work of the students. Concession is a duty to which the State gives up. In one part, 10%, it is divided into student organisations and student services, and 2% is strictly intentional. And I say again, I see no reason why strictly dedicated money should not go directly to where it must come into some kind of fund. Why would he go through a student organization? And if you claim that this restricts the student organization in all its sovereignty and I don't know what else to blame her for - let's make fun of it! It's just a simple hoax. Yes, it is, it is. So much for now, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue has a replica, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u240	My colleague, with regard to transparency of two concepts: one notion is that we have the right to contribute to the quality of the laws, and I think it's a clear delusion that you've run us over with your machine, that it went by emergency procedure because it wasn't necessary. But the other thing is, the students, my colleague Capuder, at a board meeting where you were present, told you for each month how much money went, what went on, and when did they take him. So that thing was very transparent. But they warned against what the government had not warned; if now the government will take over all these things - for the first time, who will do it in the government, who will do it, and for the third time, who will now have control over all these things. That's why I think it's the guilt of the opposition's spine and of course of course of the students.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Do you have a replica or should I report you later? Good, 'cause there's three more in front of you. So it's mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u242	Thank you. I understand that the reasoning of the law, which is not necessarily necessary and which brings solutions that do not increase the volume of funds; even more so, they reduce them because they are giving up or abandoning budgetary resources. As a constant source, however, there is a justification for the continuity of funding. And now I hope, Mr Vice President, that you will not warn me, because I will answer Mr Petan in one piece, and I have not previously responded to the replica. I allow the possibility that Mr Petan and I do not read the same newspapers, but I am pleased to note that the Student Organisation of Slovenia now has a president, the media will no longer be able to mix between the director and between the president of the student organisation when it mentions income. It's about something else. All the justifications go in the direction: there is a need to increase control. Yes, I understand this as a paternalist attitude of the ministry towards a student organisation, which, like the one recorded there in the Kozlovski judgment, must be condemned by that goat who "looked over the plank" and "had bad intentions". Either he did them or he didn't do anything. But in all of this, I warn you that this same government is very good at radioting all forms of independent control over its own actions, so it is untouchable. And now, if you'll excuse me, for the student organization. The student organisation of Slovenia is a representative body, is loved, its officials are loved. Several times we have tried to offer on our working bodies as a substitute for the student organisation of the world - the student world and this typically Mariboric, which is not loved, but is a designated body. This story reminds us of some other stories where some introduced system, which is legal and legitimate, is collapsing and a new system is being set up, as if we would start counting years after 2004, and as if nothing had happened before, and it is all happening now. I think that, however, the student organisation is such a representative organisation, which has the right to be involved in the decision-making process and to have control and a role in all of this, and it needs to be proved - if we are now in the charge - that the guilt must be proved and then the powers taken away from it. But it's a real outpouring of a student organization at all levels, and it's not possible to overlook that under other laws, as I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u244	Thank you for your word. Okay, maybe we don't all read the same papers and we don't get the same information, but in this case, which I was quoting, it's not "the goat's judgment" because no one "looked over the planks" had the same desire, but I was talking about things "on the same side of the planks". And it was not a desire either, but a concrete report on the actual use of resources, not a desire to have something. This report also has a signature, unfortunately. The signature was authenticated, but as a business secret. This is because, yes, I don't know, maybe some could just "look over the planks" on this report. But what is written down and signed in the report is facts, and there were no "planks" in there anymore. I don't think it's necessary for me to read that wish again, 13 million of the revenue of one student organization official. It wasn't a wish, it was a report that had already been made. These things have already been done and we don't have to, I don't know, try to prove any more, if that's true, if that was the report, and if that was the report, then the man himself signed it. This is said to be no longer a 'goat judgment', it is some other judgment possible; not from Visno Gora, but from where else, probably from Ljubljana - I do not know exactly where this goat lives if it is [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] But it didn't grow on my diaphragm about the "goat judgment," I just expressed myself in the same words about what I was out of it. [[..]] So these are really different things: " Desire" is already a concrete report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u245	Thank you very much. However, we may be able to turn back to the amendments. I'll take the word of Dr. Slavinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u246	Thank you so much for saying that, Dr. Pavlich. Nice greetings to all present. So the first conclusion that we can take into account in the way we deal with this law is that it is not only time more so sad, but also the situation in the country is similar to the state of war, because all the laws we deal with in this area are dealt with in such a way as to burn water and necessarily have to be adopted and tomorrow will be war. Unfortunately, the war has already begun. There was a war in the area of higher education, which is not a consequence of the situation, but a result of someone causing it. It was caused by the government, caused by the Ministry and because, on the one hand, it does not want to lead its policy in accordance with and with the needs of those who are called to lead politics, i.e. higher education students and the whole of Slovenia, because we are aware that the importance of higher education is significantly greater than it is to get a diploma, but that it is produced by those who will make a key contribution to our further development and, on the other hand, because of such procedures, no law has been in line with the representative representatives and, as we have heard before, let us hope that gender will no longer mix between the President and her fellow students of the student organisation. And disharmony is logical, because this law is not because some arguments try to improve the thing that already works, but simply because it disciplines the Student Organisation of Slovenia not to oppose the government, but will be beautiful, obedient, like many others, sneer and, of course, cooperate. Unfortunately, some have forgotten and are not aware of the impact, significance and also of all the activities that students in the past have done in the field of social life and also of those avant-garde, which they have always tried, and that they will not be disciplined and removed. The arguments by which the articles of this law are reinforced and why we argue them and try to reject them, to correct "de facto", are, in short, inventive and tending. After one stop, there was a talk about saving three million dollars per year, as far as the student organisation receives for the explicit management and operational implementation of these procedures and, on the other hand, no one has assessed the costs that the ministry will additionally have in carrying out these activities. There are two options: whether the Ministry will hire an additional person, which will cost significantly more, or whether the Ministry will do so within existing staff with existing potential. In both cases, of course, there are poor options. In the first case, additional burden on the budget, and in the second case, the non-exploitation of staff at the Ministry and consequently a large number of internal reserves that should have been used earlier. Next thing. It was denied that the concession was not collected to the extent necessary, so that all the funds were not collected. The argument, at least on the committee where we discussed the matter in more detail, proved to be as I said in the introduction: fictional and tending. Why? Because they operated on data on the year when the concession was not collected at all for the whole period, or with data on the following year, which was estimated at the year before, where the volume of this work was 25% higher. And what seems most important to me is certainly the student organization's life interest in really getting all the concessions. What he's doing here is just one of the side products. They collect this matter because of the part of the funds that then belong to them, for their operation. And this smaller percentage is only collected at the same time and then taken away. As it is said, the Student Organisation of Slovenia has its own life interest to collect from those who are obliged to pay this as much as possible, as most of them remain for their operations. And unlike the efficiency of our tax authorities, where exactly every year we can see how much money remains unrecovered, I am sure that, at this point in time, after this system, which is introduced and also functioning well, the proceeds are significantly greater than the percentage of our tax authorities seized and, of course, those who are supposed to do so in the future - but I am afraid that they will - do so. The next thing, of course, is work doubling. As a student organisation has said, it has been using this, and it has been carrying out only a fraction of this, without any additional part of the costs and other manipulative activities, it deprives someone else. There will now be a double, parallel system that will do the same thing, but in different places and for different users. Of course, those applications will also need to develop new computer and other software processes. I hope that the ministry will be as smart as it will get this assignment to connect with the current contractors, and at least then get applications from them - that they will not go on to develop them into a new budget and thereby further burden the budget and thereby further distance the construction of new student homes and new beds, which was one of the important and key arguments why to do so or do well-established things on a new one - to build more student homes and that they will be built earlier. Of course, the Minister could not answer the question which article of the new law explicitly allows this. It was all about speculation, of course, about disregarding each other's laws. However, it may happen that, after the student organisation is punished for their activities, if they are removed and excluded from the cooperation process, including co-financing of the construction of student homes and ultimately - which is logical and justifiable, decision-making in this process - it may be that these houses are being built at a cost. As it is said, bare speculation, because there was no argument, but at least in the articles of this law, which we are now amending. And this is already a well-established practice of punishing others who have absolutely nothing to do with it, and of course they have nothing to do with it, but they are disruptive because they warn, because, of course, they also have an interest in improving things. And let us also see why it is logical and reasonable for students to participate through their representatives - on the one hand, if they are already co-financed - in the construction of student homes and then as participants. This concession is solely due to the work of students, solely due to what students do in their spare time to facilitate their studies. Once again, I will point out the fact and the abuse of potential and potential abuse of student work for the general condemnation of all students. And this is what we all know very well is wrong, not fair and unfair to students, because in this way students not only guarantee their status or make their social situation easier and some even afford their own studies, but also provide and improve their employment opportunities and gain additional experience and thus also help universities, higher education institutions to get closer and follow the goals of the Bologna and Lisbon strategies; that higher education will be more closely linked to those who - students, later graduates - not least they need. And there are only two options: whether students are recognised by their work and, of course, by this percentage, which the employers are depriving through their student work to co-finance all these activities - and, logically, they are also entitled to participation in decision-making - or whether the whole system is changed, or whether student work is abolished in a form such as that, and then this is taxed in a different way and, of course, these matters are then fully financed from the budget. However, see, in this area, we have also experienced a complete, full opposition on the committee and that I will not use the word 'roller' again. When it was suggested that account should be taken of this fact that students are not the only ones who are responsible and responsible for caring for their student homes, that the budget should also be added as a source, and this matter, of course, did not "go through". As a result, I am even more concerned with the duality and also the insinuated and insinuated arguments cited by the applicant in this law. Nowhere and we have never heard how specifically the Student Organisation of Slovenia has hidden or hidden money - of course, because it was not there and it was not possible to show it either. Those arguments that we have heard that work will now be more transparent and transparent, if it goes directly, of course we cannot take into account, because they are also on very shaky legs. The student organisation is now exposed to significantly greater supervision than the proposed future contractor of these activities. If I conclude with a comparison: as the Ministry of the Economy, it was not difficult to choose any means to settle with the disturbing Chamber of Commerce, I fear that this law was proposed by the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology for the same reason and that it is not difficult for them to account with any means of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u247	Thank you very much. My word to Dr. Gabra.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. One of the main thesis on the committee and still here today is the one Dr. Slavinec spoke about. Rather, we will have greater transparency in the collection of this concession fee and that, with greater certainty, this money will indeed come into the fund. Interestingly, the argument the government has written is different in paper itself. The government said why it was going. The government takes this law and what we discussed three hours ago as a package. It's a simple story. They tried to domain with the student organisation that for that part of the funds collected from the concession, the student organisation should not register as co-owner of the student homes. And because they failed to agree on that, they have now gone to parliament to amend two laws. The student organization wanted to be subjective, and these two laws are here to disinherit this student organization. Especially because the previous government was willing to take this step - it is true that at the Ministry of Finance they had quite a bit of a problem with it, but in the end it was decided to go this way. I think it's going to happen sooner or later, even if it's done in a different way now. Why should a student organisation be deconstructed? Since someone you negotiate with and have billions of assets and is a strong negotiator with a strong student population, it is necessary to take it differently from a passant. If such a negotiator connects with the unions and you try to implement reforms that he is not willing to accept, then you start to think about how to distract him. That's the logic behind these two laws. That it is not possible to achieve greater transparency in this way is clear to everyone, including the blind. Here are the people who explained for the last time on the committee how they would now get an insight into what was going on at student services. Whoever says that is either lying to you or not knowing what he's talking about. Firstly, this Ministry, which is empowered by this law, does not have any powers in the field of student work. What student services do is controlled by another ministry. If someone has to step up their jobs and see how to make order there, they have to do it with the Tiny, and they have to do it thoroughly. Now it was someone who controlled whether 2% were properly taken or not. Who was that? Student organization. Why? Because the student organization had two figures when she looked at how much money there was for them, their 5%, they saw whether those two figures were at least correspondence. The Ministry of Education will not even be able to see these two data because it is not competent to have any insight into these procedures. Besides, they don't even care. In order to know nothing about these funds, they demonstrated more than well enough on the Higher Education Committee. At first, the minister explained to all of us that concessions should be a billion 600 million in a year. Then it turned out that he spoke almost like Radio Yerevan, about the wrong year, and about the wrong shares, so nothing held up. Why didn't it hold? Because he wasn't willing to say directly: we couldn't make a deal with the student organization. Because we couldn't make a deal, there are now two marriages ahead of you. Accept them because it's too difficult for us to negotiate. This is the final result of all strong negotiations, because obviously this government is negotiating in this way - we negotiate if you agree to our positions; but if not, then the negotiations are over and we will settle this in Parliament. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I propose that this complement be supported. It has a very simple logic as well as the following supplements: to keep the law as it is, transparency is reasonably great, if it has to be increased, it must be increased through another mechanism, not through it. Because what is happening is not what my fellow Member says - from Maribor through Budapest to Ljubljana, but what is happening is that whoever picks up one part of the mail in Maribor picks up another part of the mail. Now we want to get two mails to Ljubljana and send two couriers there. First one goes to pick up a piece of this 5% concession, and the other one gets 2%. That's why it's either there's got to be a new employee who's gonna take this seriously, or someone's going to lynch. Everything else is a hoax. It can't be different. I'm almost betting that the first few months, even if you hire someone, control over what's going on, will be weaker than this moment. You will not build anything faster, the amount of money is the same, almost certainly you can claim that you will spend more money to make it run as it should have gone. The second thing I would like to point out to the Secretary of State, because he is new to us, and in fact to all of us, is that he is somehow a key part of this article, that is the part that the government has silenced to delete. Why didn't she shut him up? Because the Grand Masters are at the Ministry of Finance, and I don't blame them for that. They are there to prevent budget funds. But other ministers are there to take care of their ministries. And when this is established in some balance, the state normally operates. There is no secret that a ministerial liaison has reached a budget fund for this area, that some others have been against it. This has brought this area of higher education into line with the health sector where such a budget fund exists. Those of you who are now responsible for this area at the Ministry of Higher Education are easily giving up on a special status that has been difficult to combat. When you go to high school in front of the dean, in front of the rectors, the rectors, I'm just wondering what you're going to tell them why you gave it up. Why your area, which has already received a special status, in line with the Lisbon strategy, in line with the country's plans to accelerate this area, has happened that the money that comes into this fund, if it happens to be a hole in the budget in the country, or if it happens to remain at the end of the year, these funds go forward for that same purpose, otherwise they remain in the budget and are distributed for other purposes, such as wages, to compensate for damage if it comes to them. You had this special status. There were people who chose him over you. You're wasting it on a quick procedure. Congratulations to Bajuku and his. However, I hope that at least the Ministry of Higher Education has noticed what I'm doing to them; if they're so naive that they haven't noticed it, then it's bad for higher education. But that's not the worst thing. It's bad with this country's development. Special statuses did not happen to have health care and did not happen to have a higher education, but they did not have any other activities. Why do you give up and steal quietly?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u249	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Sok's turn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u250	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Prime Minister, representatives of the Ministry! First of all, I must conclude that this change in the law will prevent students from being deprived of anything. Only the way this money travels is changing. In other words, 2% remains 2%, and this is actually a concessional duty, which is the sum of the former minister, our fellow Member today, Mr Gabra, which is why I also understand that he is being so scrupulously defended and that you have managed to write three amendments in the LDS, all three are the same, the article is deleted. The law that the current government has decided to propose in this way is not. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] If you can sign up for the debate, you will, however, report too much time for the debate and repeat more or less one and the same story already heard. [[...]] So, this was adopted in 2003, when, in addition to many of the then introduced tolars, I don't know, but the cultural tolar of the school toller - my colleague Moze often boasted that the grandfather was one of these tolars, or father or whatever, inventor - that you had introduced another student tolar and actually made a bypass company before the European Union, that it did not come into the integral budget and so it was not seen in the integral Just This is now by my colleague Gaber before me through these funds that it was not seen that it was coming and that it was also leaving. [[...]] So this wasn't covered anywhere in the budget. And the government, with this change, is doing exactly what this is going to do in such a transparent way, and it will also be intended in a transparent way for this purpose as the law foresees. And just what you mentioned, what no one said here today, here's the question of ownership. As soon as you proposed this law and couldn't comply with the rules of procedure, as required by the Rules of Procedure, you did not propose three comparable solutions in the Member States of the European Union, because no European country has such a solution because we only knew this work in Yugoslavia. But despite the fact that you failed to comply with this business provision at the time, it went through Parliament, but then the legislature warned you about this problem of ownership. Who, then, is it that the state gives up this money and gives it up to build a home from the concession, and who owns this property? Or student organizations? At the time, I know that in the opposition we have proposed that we settle this in such a way that the state has already refused to go through the university, but that was not the case. So you've arranged this in the way you're here today, and you're saying that through this way, you've changed, you're driving students away from codecision to get rid of them from tomorrow, and there are similar statements. I'll put it this way. I've got a little insight into this myself. The current generation of students, of course, can easily resist what you're saying, but tomorrow, when the workers, when they're working, I don't know, as newly employed for 140,000 with university education, tomorrow of course they'll be thinking about these issues and thinking about it completely differently, they'll be thinking completely differently than they are today when they're alone in it. Of course, today, when you are a student, it is very convenient and that is why you speak this way, so of course they will be most co-decision-makers if they study as soon as possible and as soon as possible in the work process itself. I also understand these attacks on the Minister for Higher Education in this direction and, of course, I am not surprised, my colleague Gaber, because if you have legalized something with some majority, of course you will defend yourself today in all ways to keep it that way, if you feel right or wrong. The assessment is now such that this method of raising this money is necessary to make it more transparent, and above all it is unacceptable that, through this system that the State provides for this property of these homes, it is defined through the law through the contractual relationship between the student organisation and those where the funds are paid. Thank you very much. So we will not support these amendments, of course, to delete all three amendments that foresee the deletion of these articles, and of course we will not support this law, but we understand you in all these debates and in this reading of these positions and in the public creation of a certain family, when you see how this government and this government coalition take a few students, how it is against students, secondly against workers, thirdly against pensioners. This is just some way of working the opposition, which is more likely to be received than it is, to the extent that, of course, it will not be possible by the ruling coalition to prove that this is not the case, so it is necessary for us to discuss this in this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u251	Thank you very much. The replica has Dr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleague Sok, the story would almost be perfect if there were not enough arguments against what you're saying. We will decide today on the law on vocational education. In the Act on Vocational Education, our Group will support the proposals that have come to this National Assembly because we are convinced that this law is building up the system. However, we are opposed and will always oppose your solutions when it comes to disassembly of the system and when it comes to reducing the rights of certain populations and also to weakening the situation of certain areas. It's not just about students and students, it's not just about the student organization, it's about higher education in its entirety, it's about both of them. That's why we don't support this law. It's not about who wrote it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u253	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. I give my word to Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u254	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to all present! I was encouraged by an article in Del yesterday, showing the structure of the funds managed by the Student Organisation of Slovenia. The budget had 103 million transfers from the previous year, which is 120 million. Of these, only 20 million were spent on projects. And I ask myself, from the previous debates, what could they have done with these 20 million? As can be seen later, they gave 5.2 million to the Diaska Organizacija Slovenije and it can also be seen that over 47 million were paid for the salaries of six officials, where the highest salary was 840 thousand tolars. Of course, I immediately understand why there is such a hall and such a fire in the roof when someone touches such a privilege for certain "little sheiks" somewhere in a privileged organization. In any case, such an organisation cannot represent the interests of students or, in such a structure, student interests are neglected. The industry has always shown the need for student work. I remember, my first student work was through the Employment Institute in the bishoply Jelovica. I have two months and 12 days of work from there in my workbook. This was, of course, during vacations when it was necessary to replace people, and in this way student work can still manifest itself. Also in the company where I last worked, there is a high seasonal need for workers during vacations or production requires a very variable number of workers. If there is a specific program, for a day, two teams need to be strongly strengthened and then students jump in. If I look at the current financial structure of the benefits, I think it's about 300 tolars per hour of work to the student service and indirectly then forward. And I think the only right thing to do is to increase the share of this big money for almost nothing or to increase it for purposes that will benefit students, that is to say, to build student homes. At the same time, I wonder whether all the capacities at home have been exploited. For cities close to Ljubljana, with a slightly better traffic regime, you could say that only 50 students are currently being held in the Škopheloška Djekům, which has a capacity of 250 students, and perhaps even looking for people to complete their capacity. A similar problem is in Kranj. Driving by train is no longer than driving in the columns of Ljubljana itself, and while the capacity is available, then perhaps a slightly lower price plus transport, it can compete with some expensive apartment in Ljubljana. That is why I support the support of the building of student homes from the resources that remain at the student level, or that funds are being diverted in some new way to these specific objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u256	Thank you very much. I will touch only one point, which I think is very significant in view of the debate on this agenda item and these amendments and today's or this meeting of the National Assembly. This is the question of self-sustainment of the budget fund, which is now being addressed by the Minister for Higher Education. At this meeting of the National Assembly tomorrow at first reading, we will set up a budget fund for defence. And what you're proposing here, even though you say it's a technical law, is nothing more than punishing students because they have their own thoughts. And it's very interesting that Dr. Drnovšku is a mag. The heist managed to establish a budget fund and the graduate defender will be able to abolish the student budget fund and set up a budget fund for defence for 170 billion tolars. And, gentlemen, earlier, fellow Members have tried to explain to you what the Ministry or the Minister for Higher Education is doing and regrets that you are removing the possibility that money coming from concession fees would be the basis for a public private partnership in order to strengthen the material basis both in student homes and in higher education. If you don't understand this, then you don't understand the basic budget discussion and you won't understand why in Slovenia we're obviously putting more into cannons, patriots from now on, I don't know what else and we'll put less into knowledge.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u257	Thank you. My word to Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u258	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, Members, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! Apparently, the amendment of this law is a good proposal, because the discussions of the three amendments to the three articles of the novel go in a completely different direction, not in the content of the law, but we are fast on the patriotic side and we are, I don't know, in what kind of interruptions and radiations, etc. It's obviously a technical law. I would point out once again in this amendment of the law that it is a matter of simplification and a definitely better control over the payment of money, which is in fact also in line with the requirements of the student organisation. As far as the student organisation is concerned, I would just like to express my wish here out loud, in a way I would like to invite Slovenian students to unity. I am increasingly convinced that the Student Organisation of Slovenia does not become and is not a representative of all Slovenian students. I believe and know that this is a competent organisation for dialogue with the government, but given what is happening among students, I believe increasingly that the SOS is not a representative of all students, I hope that it will be slightly different under the new Presidency. Where do I see simplification? The simplification brought by this novelty has been the need to conclude so far in this area four party contracts: between the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, between the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, between the Ministry of Education and Sport, and, of course, between the students' services, according to the household. So these are contracts of the four partners, of which virtually none of the partners had the option or any individually limited possibility of controlling the payment and transfer of money. It will now be simple contracts, so that the money will be directly indicated and that the employer will pay into the budget fund, which is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, and there will be no intervention, there will be no intermediaries. Mediators are already defined to have a negative accent many times. By implementing this proposed law, DURS will receive additional tasks, which will not require additional employment. Data from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs website include 76 concessionaires in the Republic of Slovenia who provide temporary and occasional work to students and students. For them, DURS is already the competent authority for the calculation and payment of value added tax, and therefore the DURS will be the most effective, I am sure, and most easily carry out these tasks, and in particular control over the collection and disposal of the additional concession fee. The resources for its work are provided in the State budget. Perhaps it is not a coincidence that the law in force today celebrates its third birthday, which will probably be confirmed by my esteemed colleague Dr. Gaber. But when I look at the existing law and the debates of the opposition at the time of the adoption of this law, I hope that the law has somehow gone in this direction, that it has sought to buy students or bind them to itself, that is to say, to the then government. I mean, if I'm talking about intermediaries again now, it's true that at a certain time interval, the SOS has to transfer the money it receives from student services to the fund. But if I'm a good financier, if I'm a good master, with 100 million -- I'm about to say -- with 100 million a month, I can make a lot of money. I conclude that neither the New Slovenia Group will support either of the three amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u259	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u260	Thank you. Today, the debate has repeatedly mentioned the abolition of this budget fund. I would ask all those who say so to read Article 2, which does not speak in any way about the abolition of the budget. Mr. Gaber, you can hold your head, only your fellow Member has just talked about shutting down the budget fund. Mr. Squeakle said that, and that's one big stupid thing to say to read article 2 of this law. Spending the fear that student homes will be built because the money directly from the concessionaires will be sent to the student fund so that no student homes will be built, and it will be spent on Slovenia, that is, I can't find words for it. The building of student homes will be built by means of funds from the Fund and by means of funds from the budget. As it has been so far, so has, yes. And I'd like to end with that, and I'll tell you before I do, I'm not going to support these amendments. But I would end up wondering who's afraid of transparency. I hope it's not the show, but given your reactions, I think you're afraid of them, transparency.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u261	Thank you very much. But now I ask that we go from a personal level to a more objective, more to a point. Mag. Squeakle's got a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u262	Briefly to the Member of Parliament. If you remove one of the two sources of the budget, the situation will be lower and, of course, the budget fund will become meaningless. And that is why I say, we are discussing that we are reducing resources, but at the same time tomorrow we will form another budget fund for cannons, and here we have reduced the money for the knowledge budget. That's what this is about, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u263	Thank you. And Mr. Mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u264	Thank you for your words, just at the right moment, because now there has been a repeated statement that deserves just one comment. First of all, why should these amendments now be rejected? For a simple reason, it is necessary to make very clear what the interest of students as a student population is - and I have talked to many in recent days about this matter. No one actually could tell me very clearly and directly what he has of those well-paid student officials. Of course, the interest of the student functionaries is to ensure maximum influence, lasting influence and so on in various ways, including those described by Dr. Gaber. I'm not saying it's not a legitimate interest, but it's legitimate, honest, and I'd rather not comment on it too much. What is essential, however, is that the debate by the LDS Member has just been repeated in another, which touches on the defence or defence-related issues. Here I can say, as Head of the delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly for Slovenia, that we have received very great praise from many aspects, and above all, the common red thread of these praises is to keep our word. Ladies and gentlemen of the LDS, since this is obviously again the emergence of collective amnesia, I would remind you that the commitment to comply with NATO's agreement on the use of two percent of the social product for the purpose of defence has, of course, been made by your government specifically by your Prime Minister, at the time of accession to NATO. This is a commitment which has been made publicly, which is recorded and which binds Slovenia, and we are only fulfilling your promises because we want Slovenia to be credible, respected and recognized as a good reliable partner in the international community. And please, in your statements, be aware of this fact at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Dr. Gaber has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u266	Look what's going on with this law, and whoever's representing this is the subject that I'm assuming we're really going to continue tomorrow. I would be very pleased if we did not talk in this way about who was talking to whom and who was calling, which reminds me of an old, well-known Slovenian policy, which I would like to say that the workers called him and told him to do things the way they did. After those policies, nothing promising happened to Slovenia. It is better to rely on the argument in its entirety and from the arguments to develop solutions, because otherwise anyone can find someone who called him or at least he thought he was calling him. As for this story, which we are now talking about and where we are going to locate the funds, for what purpose and how we are going to provide them, let me say that if the government is able to provide funds of 2% of the gross social product for defence, and is able to ensure this by not violating and taking rights that have already been provided, it is also possible to talk about this without difficulty. But to keep everything that needs to be given for defence in that area, and here we are taking money or basic logic to make the budget money go to the higher education fund, which is, ladies and gentlemen, the problem, and here is the difference between us, we stand for this fund to stay here.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u267	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! After an extensive debate on the committee responsible, I expected that this debate and this insistence of the LDS Club at the amendments to be reduced, even expected to be withdrawn, because that debate was clear in the direction that they were committed there to the non-transparent decoupling of money, for as many fogs as possible in the financial field, for such conditions as they had systematically created over the 12 years, and for the fog in which the political intrigues took place most. It's just been said that we're taking some money with this law. I don't know where to take some money, as far as I'm aware, no one threw it away to make the manipulative costs a little less, for three million dollars the manipulative costs will be less. I believe this is a very small amount of money for you, and it seems to you that it's some kind of change that you don't need. I also agree that many in the country are still doing much more expensive work today. But those who do not advocate that the 3 million that go to the Student Homes Budget Fund should also be taken up and brought to the place for which they are intended, and also for billions of other purposes. Once again, the fight against transparency in the financial field is not worth a Member, I think. One of the student officials - who I understand to be fighting in this area, that's legitimate, they had something out of it, some of the costs accounted for, and, I don't know, kept this money temporarily and turned it around - said frankly that it was an economy of the scale of the student organisation. The economy of scale. But I ask you, Slovenian public, whether the original function of a student organisation is with us or anywhere in the world, that it manages or works only with money that the country knowingly withdrew from its taxes - that is this concession tax and that 2%. I think the student organization in our country, as elsewhere in the world where they exist, has some function of taking over for the general benefit of students. But not as we've read lately that it's because of the strong money that's been pampering this student organization quite a lot. I do not know if it is entirely justified that some student officials have more wages than Members. And you are advocating such a state that with money we have already ruined a young generation in order to have at our disposal the cheap money it then maneuvers. The path of this money is perfectly clear where everything must be directed, where it must land and for what purposes it must be spent. And, gentlemen of the Liberal Democracy, two days ago or yesterday you experienced a clear failure in your efforts to degrade degrees of 120 thousand Slovenian universities. Rumors about the referendum were immediately overwhelming because you know that he was lost, that no one would support him from these graduates. But you insist on other things that are of a smaller size, but they are totally unacceptable. And I am sure that the Slovenian public is more enlightened every day and sees more each day that you are fighting for certain privileges, some benefits that have been unjustifiably placed, just as they were laid down in the laws you yourself have written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Mag. The execution requires a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u270	Mr Jerovšek, I don't know why this is necessary, because you have won elections with such deception. You're in power now, and you don't have to lie about things that aren't what you say they are. I have already told Mr Petan that what he writes is paid by the non-functional student organisation, but by the employee who is paid, who has a regular working relationship, from which all the supplements are paid. Student officials, this is the president, and now, after the new president, they don't have that kind of salary. But you lie and lie all the time and what you repeat and repeat. And that's what you're saying, that you want to be transparent, to be clear, to be precise - it would be good if any of this really happened when you already want to use transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u271	Dear colleagues and colleagues! But I'm asking you not to use such juicy terms and bet your nicknames and verbs that you're lying and, I don't know what else. This does not belong to Parliament. Please. That's what you can think, but say it out loud in other places. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u272	I would just like to have one addition, because formerly, Comrade Squeakl mentioned the visa of this debate, which we have here today, to the Defence Fund. I would just like to say that the resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces was adopted by the State Assembly in the previous term. So, two years ago, and everything about this is already set and accepted. Of course, it doesn't make sense to have this problem here today, because it was accepted by those who are now in opposition. That's all I wanted. Because the public is watching us, because the public is listening to us, and because tomorrow we have a debate in the National Assembly, and I see that the preparations for this have already begun today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u273	Thank you. I conclude the debate on Article 2 and the amendment of the Liberal Sorry, I apologize, Mr Jerovšek. Please, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u274	Thank you very much. It is my duty to my colleague to answer the question at all when he says he has a job on this kind of salary, I don't know exactly, bigger, it seems, than we Members. Listen, these are student institutes that should be half-loving. It should work in general for students, even worse, that employees who are not officials have such salaries there. Then there's something very wrong with the wage ratios between us and these organizations. At the same time, I must say that I do not leave Mrs Potter to talk about deception and lies. I think I speak very transparently, and advocating transparency in the financial field is not misleading. The lady should be swept away in her own family when her husband was deceiving the governors in the election of the new power by means of smokin'.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u275	Mr Jerovšek, please kindly, the warning applies to everyone!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u276	Yeah, I have to, if that's what she's doing, then I have to.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u277	The warning applies to everyone!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u278	I am grateful that you have warned her that she has exceeded the threshold, but I have performed in the same way as in the opposition and I am doing the same now. And that's what people admit to me. I'm also going to be consistently committed to some things. Last time, Mr. Gaber told me I didn't bow to any of my client's officials. Thank God I didn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u279	Mr Jerovšek, we will discuss these matters after the vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u280	Okay, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u281	Thank you very much. He has a word or a replica, a discussion, whatever Dr. Gaber has.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u282	Now, see, colleague Jerovšek would be very credible if he realized that he was such an official who was paid out of student money or employed, more precisely, his current Prime Minister. Janez Janša is a man who had a good salary from student sources. That would be easier to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Now I'd like to speak with the Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u284	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Respectable and respected. I'll try to shield myself from opinions and judgments and point out some facts. First of all, I do not see the exclusion of students and student organisations in financial transactions as their exclusion from decision-making and co-decision on where and how student homes will be built, since they are included in the world for the construction of student homes. Another issue I would like to stress is the construction of student homes and the interest in building these. In the last few days, I have been in this position, there have been quite a few initiatives and a lot of interest in building student homes in Celje and in the coast. It is also increasingly expressing the interest of financiers in the form of a public-private partnership, so that there will not be only investments focused solely on Ljubljana, Maribor, as mentioned. Last week, Mr Minister accepted the president of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, and I was present at this interview. I had the impression that the atmosphere was very creative and that promises were made after a patient and proper cooperation in the future. And finally, as an economist, if I may use my field, I think it's very rational to exclude one article from financial transactions, because it speeds up the financial flow. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Jerovšek, it looks like he's gone out. There's something I'd like to tell him. What you said earlier that you were speaking today as you spoke at the time you were in the opposition, that's exactly what colleague Maja Potrate told you, so I don't know why you're getting upset right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u287	I'm closing the debate. I'm asking nicely for a little attention. I am closing the debate on Article 2 and on the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, and I am also putting Article 3 to the debate and the LDS amendment. There's no debate. I'm closing the debate. The last paragraph, as well as the LDS amendment. There are no applications, so there is no debate, and we are also concluding this item on the agenda. We have concluded the debate on the amendments that we will vote on in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, we will probably round up in doubt at 5:30. I hereby terminate this agenda item and also interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which we continue at 5:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u288	Members and fellow Members, representatives of ministries, are moving to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. In doing so, I ask that you check the functioning of the voting apparatus following the standard procedure. I'm not even gonna mention the light again. And we continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on Kobilna Lipica by emergency procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will lead after the review of the amendments of 13 July 2006, we have an amendment to Article 2. The candidates are a group of Members with a first-signed Targeton Davorin and a parliamentary group of Social Democrats. Mr. Tarchoon, please. I assume on behalf of the Member of Parliament, or, say so.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u289	You can do it on your own. So, on our request, we have an explanation, on our request, we have a professional basis, and what do the professional grounds say to determine an influential area? They say they started one procedure on the government that they didn't finish. They drew an influential area, which is exactly as I said it was drawn twice as large as it is now. They communicated with the congregation of Séžana, who told them briefly that they could not be identified and that they should send them more detailed information because the congregation council needed to be defined around it. So in the congregation of Sežana they received nothing, even wrote in these professional bases, here are some letters, these are not professional grounds. Some of the starting points were that they did not even get the cadastral plans that they had requested from the administrative unit or from the land book in Séžana. These are now professional bases, read well, I appeal to you and this influential area will cause Lipica herself, the environment and the municipality of Sežana new problems. I have no problem in solving some of the problems that have been in the protected area, and let us separate the protected area that has so far been the only and influential area. However, you are spreading the problem of an influential area and time will show that we have had just those who have warned that this is not intermediately arranged, so I call on you to support the amendment, which speaks only of this work, by making the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u291	Thank you for your word. I too, on behalf of the Group of Members, propose in some way and ask the majority Members to support this amendment. It is true that the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage does not require the consent of the local community, but also the Law on the State Location Plan does not provide and does not require the local community not to be invited to prepare this plan; and today the government representative has told us all that the Ministry has informally communicated with the local community in the preparation of the government's decision. So, once again, I propose that, despite the fact that it is a matter of a unique nature, because no other law dealing with the monuments of national or cultural heritage of national importance is recorded in such a way or in such a way as is here in Article 2, that we remain in the way of preparing the national site plan so far and that the local community participates in doing so.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u292	Thank you very much. In doing so, before I give the floor to others who wish to explain their voices, if this amendment is not adopted, then the amendment of the Social Democrats to the 11th article, which you have on the back of the amendment review, becomes irrelevant. Now we proceed with the explanation of vote, mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u293	Today, it has been said in the debate that there is no basis or that there are no professional grounds for actually voting on this law. What we received under point 16 in the accompanying letter from the Minister and then attached, blank papers without clear definitions, without content and then two annexes from 2000, is not a document of the Ministry, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This may be a document of the ministry, the government of Mr Simoniti, but on this basis, in the National Assembly, I do not think we can decide what an influential area should be. And I would ask you nicely, those who care about what we are dealing with in this national assembly and what material we receive, this is not even reliable material. That's not even reliable material. It says here the number, the double, and the date: March 2005. Any hacker who could play could make a couple of "copy-pastes" and make and put back some documents from 2000 and 2003. If these are the grounds for moving forward or not in a congregation, then I think we live in different worlds, and therefore this amendment needs to be supported, so that the municipality of Sežana will be able to exercise the rights it is going to enjoy in dealing with the definition of an influential area, because the document of the Ministry of Culture is purely office paper, I do not know what it would be called, win or unproduced document.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Here's my suggestion. Anyone who does not say that he wishes to explain his voice on behalf of the parliamentary group will assume that he wants to make it easier to measure time on his behalf if you agree. And I give the word to Mr. Jelinčič the Trinitarian.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First on behalf of the Group of Members. We will support the amendment tabled by the Group of Members with the first-signed Davorin Tarčon. Lipica is too important to be dealt with with with with with with your left hand. And I must say that, in the first term, we did it with our colleague Polonca Dobrajc in order to prevent the sale and destruction of Lipica, because at the time, privatisation was being prepared, after which, I will not say which political parties were going to share even horses, but I do not know how to cut them, long or hard. But it didn't happen and Lipica stayed in one piece and in one form. And now we can't let anything like this happen. I think Lipico needs to be preserved. After all, even in the former communist regime, Marshall Tito then gave all his support that Lipica remained what she was, and in fact gained much more in value, price and meaning. Therefore, we must not allow now, in a time of independence and independence, freedom and democracy, Lipica will slowly disappear into the hands of some societies, golf clubs or anything like that. The landscape itself is too important to be adapted and regulated after long periods of time for certain sports courses, which are just a matter of course for some gentlemen. I understand that golf can make big profits, but that doesn't mean that this golf course will make big profits. Because for golf courses to make big profits, there's more to it. Complete infrastructure is needed, especially good hotels. Such good hotels that Lipica could carry such money that she thinks she will not be able to carry, and such good hotels will not be able to do so in the next ten years. Therefore, once again, we will support this amendment to Article 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u296	Thank you very much. We're voting. I note that 76 Members and Members are present for the vote of 37 votes to 38. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As it is said, this has made the amendment of the Social Democrats irrelevant to article 11. [[you have it on the last, page 6 of the amendment review]] . We continue with Article 5 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. In doing so, let me say that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 7. And if this amendment is adopted, the amendments under paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 will become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 42. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. It has thus become an amendment to Article 7 of the LDS. We have another amendment to Article 7, namely, the parliamentary group [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] I'm sorry. We have the next amendment to the same Article 5 of the Social Democrats Group. Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u297	Here we propose deleting this paragraph, which reads as follows: For individual parts of the protected area, the government may, if necessary, adopt a partial management plan. This scream is absolutely unnecessary in this Article, since it is clearly stated before this scream that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will adopt a management plan for the protected area of Kobilna Lipica for a period of 4 years, it is said that a new or complementary plan will be adopted for every 4 years. And if there is, indeed, a document of Lipica's development plan and if there are professional bases, then there is no need for anyone to remember and change this management plan within this four-year period every year or every three months. Once again, I suggest that this scream is totally unnecessary to support.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u298	We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 38. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 38.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The third amendment was tabled by the parliamentary group [[....]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Please, nice. Dear colleagues, behave in an appropriate manner! The third amendment was tabled by the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. If this amendment is adopted, then the amendment under point 4 becomes irrelevant. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u299	Thank you very much, Mr President. So, in Article 5, I think that this article is the one that makes this law bad - the government reserves the right to adopt a management plan for the protected area and allows the minister to intervene in the area in which he is protected. So, the Minister is the person who can grant permission to intervene in this room. Our amendment talks about what the municipality has also warned you about and asked you on behalf of the mayor of the county that the municipality should also be involved in the preparation of the law, in an influential area, we have written down, in the area of essentially cultural monument, not to intervene or perform new activities, but not to intervene without the consent of the congregation. The amendment is well-intentioned, and is also in line with the expert council of Kobilarna Lipica, chaired by Mr Brejc, and those government Members, who do not know that this is the only guardian in this law, although the law is extremely bad, which can offer and guarantee to the congregation that it will keep an eye on the space and have the right to say something about this space that is located in Crassus, is in fact the only possibility for the guardian to enter into this law. I'd like to ask for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac, then Mr. Tarchon. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u301	Thank you for your word, chairman. I will, of course, support the amendment myself. This is the amendment that prevents the exclusive that this government has allowed itself to take. The exclusive, by which the Minister, without the consent of the congregation, without the consent of the people living there, will do exactly what he thinks will be done in this area at this time. This is the amendment, which, if supported by, respected colleagues and colleagues, may indicate little that the law is truly called the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Lipica Act and not the Act on Tourism Activities of each of the or the largest government parties. This is the amendment with which we will prevent the will of your own free will and by which you will show that you really care in this case what you tried to tell us this morning is about the Horses of Lipica; despite the fact that the horses are mentioned only twice in the entire law, tourism and the economy do not know how many times, and you are also explaining to us how this is about the protection of horses. Someone even mentioned that we put this horse on a euro coin in Slovenia. You know, it's right that we gave it, of course we should give it, but in the next sentence he said it because Austria is gone. If so, then the policy would probably remain silent, because we know that the Slovenian National Party was the one who always insisted that Lipisan was Slovenian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Nevertheless, it has been pointed out on the ground that the explanation of vote is not intended for controversy and is not intended for debate, but is intended to explain the voice and I am sure that Mr Terchoon will take this into account. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u303	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, the main opportunity was already missed by the hair, 37, 38, but it was. I regret that the amendment to Article 2 has not been adopted. And I must say, in the situation we are in, I will support this amendment of the Slovenian National Party. Under the regulations now in law, without this amendment, a free assessment is left to state bureaucrats to do what they will and will put an end to it. This amendment alleviates this situation to some extent and defines in graves what can and cannot be done by the State Administration [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] This amendment will not solve all the problems, but in the given situation, when you do not listen to anyone, despite substantial arguments, it is only acceptable that this amendment be accepted for now, and I will support it. [[...]] This gives the municipality minimal opportunity to have at least some options that have always been rejected, I have previously read you a letter so that it can minimally affect the affected area. You wanted trouble and you'll have it yourself, a ruling coalition and those in Lipica if you don't change your mind by the third hearing. If we accept this amendment, these problems will be facilitated to some extent, so I appeal that it be accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u304	Thank you very much. The vote will be explained by Mrs. Zalokar-Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u305	Thank you very much. I too will support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party. Unacceptable practice seems to me that this law, in fact, applies to local communities, wants to forget that it wants to be eliminated and that it cannot actually affect either the things happening in their space or the minimum. And I think that this practice, which is likely to continue in similar cases, means, in some ways, an even greater centralisation and, in fact, some way, the end of local self-government. And I have to say that somehow I would still understand the matter, if it were, say, for a military range or for an object, I don't know what strategic defence value is in that sense. However, I cannot accept that such a dictatorship is in place in a matter that is partly touristic, in the field of culture, or I will also say in the area of further development of this area. And to eliminate this possibility that the local community and the congregation can participate in this is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u306	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčič the noble in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u307	Thank you very much. I'll support this amendment, too. In fact, this amendment, at least to some extent, I would say, is solving the tightening loop that the ruling coalition put around its neck when it did not support the first amendment. I think it will eventually turn out to be good if the first amendment is adopted and at least to some extent it will be good if this amendment is adopted. Otherwise, the matter will be quite creaky and will finally collapse. It must be said that this amendment is in line with Mr Brejc and at least this should convince you that you will vote in favour, because, if nothing else, he is from your party - on the one hand. On the other hand, within this event on Lipica, it is at the core and therefore I think it makes sense for a colleague to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Please, mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u309	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I will be happy to support the amendment, because if, in such important projects of national importance, the local community has nothing to say, then this is bad. Lipica has been under Italian occupation for some years, she is now clearly experiencing Ljubljana's and government occupation. Imagine this protected area, where there are also many important water resources. By building a golf course, of course, we will do that, instead of a karst dry grass, there will always grow green English grass. Where the national interest is here, I leave your imagination and your judgment. It is, of course, for us to reach this English grass needed in such a large area per year, to be about tons of herbicides and, of course, in this karst area, because many people still do not have water supply to their homes, thousands and thousands of litres of drinking water to water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u310	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 40. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. And the last fourth amendment to Article 5 tabled by the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 14. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 7. I'm sorry, this one's irrelevant now. We have the fifth amendments to Article 9, the first to be re tabled by SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 67 votes against 1. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The second amendment was introduced by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia to the same article. Yes, Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u311	I am talking about the amendment that we tabled in the Liberal Democracy at Article 9, and I would like to ask for an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. But it is that amendment that speaks of something that no one has ever talked about before, namely, keeping the original books of the nuns. That is, the amendment, which would certainly, at least in spirit, have been agreed with by the President of the Council of Lipice, already mentioned several times today, and especially by all those who had raised a great deal of desire a year ago and more, the impatient statements were made, however, by those who maintained the original books of the nuns. At the time, Slovenia was awake and it was difficult to close this chapter because Slovenia was not yet a full member of the European Union. We know that the original books of the Lipicas in Slovenia and in Lipica have not been kept, but that, as far as possible, they have taken as many steps as possible to enable the Republic of Slovenia to pursue the management of the books for lipice and also the possibility of keeping these books to give breeders worldwide the right to use the name of the Lipicas. It is an extremely important supplement and all those who have had Lipica's lungs and this national importance, you must be aware of this, even though, as we know today, this lung has been occupied with other interests. With this amendment, we are touching something else - we are giving the Republic of Slovenia the opportunity to make use of Lipica as a protocol facility through the law, which would provide for the provision of protocol services for the Republic of Slovenia to be included in the activities of the institution. [[End warning sign]] The Kobile Lipica would have been further established. And other indents that you can read in the amendment. I appeal that when we introduce the possibility of keeping the native books of Lipica in the public institution of Lipica into law, the possibility of obtaining this within the negotiations in the European Union is significantly greater. I think anyone can be ashamed if he doesn't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u312	Thank you very much. The vote will be explained by Mr Zagorac and then by Mr Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u313	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I myself will support the second amendment to Article 9, also because it regulates, as my predecessor has already said, the participation of horses of Lipicans in the State Protocol of the Republic of Slovenia. As you know, at the beginning of this mandate, at the Slovenian National Party, we addressed an initiative to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to start using the Lipicans for protocol purposes, first under the military protocol. I must say that this initiative has landed on fertile soils in the government and we have received a positive response that the government will do its utmost to start this activity. Of course, to this day we have not seen any concrete progress. And it's only right to write it down in this law. We are also extending this Protocol to the entire protocol of the Republic of Slovenia, and it is right that in the protocol of the Republic of Slovenia there is something we are proud of. I hope that those of you who were once filled with the mouth of national pride and interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u314	The word is given by Mr. Jelinčič the Noble. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u315	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will support several amendments to Article 9. I don't know how I'm going to make my decision at 5:00, but I'm sure I'll support both first and second. I'll tell you about another one. I think that the matters which are listed here, which should be stated in the fourth paragraph of Article 9, should be ensured. The Italians own genealogical books. The former authority under the leadership of Mr Rope, and also before Mr Drnovska, did not dare the Italians to demand the genealogy books back. Despite being stolen by the fascists, our gentlemen didn't have enough eggs to say, "return ours back." And now we have the opportunity to include at least a few things in this law, that at least in the Slovenian law we will have that we will keep the family books of the Lipicans. If we don't do this, then, gentlemen, let's leave it all together and go where it goes! Then it's going to happen that there's going to be a fight between the laymen and the yodelers. The Austrians from Pibra or the Italians from Tuscany will fight among themselves, who is Lipican, and in American films we will again be able to see someone say, "I said that the Lipicans are not from Spain, but from Portugal." I think that we should no longer allow such a matter, and therefore the second amendment to Article 9 must be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u316	Mag. Genius, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u317	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I must admit, I am surprised that this is not already written anywhere, as this amendment suggests, and of course I will support it. And I'll tell you right away if it's not adopted that I won't be able to support the law, because I think it's something extremely important that it's in there. If we do not accept this as a government coalition, then there is something more wrong with this law than we have already said that it is not optimal and that it is quick to be prepared and that, despite the initial support of this law, with such dramatic eventual opposition, such a change and complementation would then require a new thought and, of course, a different course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u318	We're voting. I'm sorry. Not so dramatic. It's nice to show it. In the meantime he showed me something Mr Bajc, I was directed, I didn't know, second time show more. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u319	Thank you very much. I would like, of course, to say that, on the basis of a directive of the European Union in Lipica, the original books of origin for lipicances are kept by the European Union, as is the case with the Kobere Piber in Austria and as well as the Lipican Breeding Association, so three organisations today have this right on the part of the European Union to keep their ancestral books. But it's true, I don't know, we probably don't understand each other, what you've suggested to write down the original genealogical books are only kept in Lipica, for a whole bunch of Lipicas, and that's something else, if that's what you mean. This is a matter that goes beyond our decision here, because we cannot decide on this ourselves, because it is necessary to agree on this at European Union level. We have tried this in the past, as far as we know, but so far the matter has been decided as it is. And those who say that they do not keep original genealogical books in Lipica: either you speak this on purpose or you do not know that in Lipica for Lipice in the field of Slovenia these original genealogical books are kept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u320	Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u321	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I reacted because, of course, I am surprised that an authorized representative of the services is sitting with you and has not seen Mr Sok's long arm. I did it myself, and I thought it was okay for him to talk, and I think it was good that you ensured it. I'll back the amendment myself. What I would like to say in this amendment, with all due respect for the Members of the ruling coalition, I understand everything you have said, but I do not understand why the Government does not support this amendment. This amendment is an amendment that has been tabled at the time of the first adoption of amendments to the Kobilina Lipica Act since we joined the European Union. And this amendment only strengthens the negotiating position between those who own the right to keep the original book of the Lipicans. The will, the political will, the power of the legislative body and the executive power, the executive power, as stated in the amendment review - the government does not support. The government does not support this amendment. You know, today and tomorrow there are important things going on in the neighbouring country for the minority. As a sovereign state, we are regulating what this law provides for Kobilna Lipica, and if we put it into law, we will have a stronger position. This is our state contract for Lipica. If you hope to write this down in law, you have a stronger position, obviously not because the government says it does not support the amendment, but we do. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the original books, because Lipica is in our territory. [[...]] These are the facts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u322	Mr. Bajc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u323	Thank you, Mr. President. I've been given this time to learn. I also propose to colleagues who are so vehemently advocating this amendment that you can learn where it is regulated and how breed books are managed, or this area that we are talking about today. The livestock law is regulated in accordance with the European Directive, the conditions and ways in which the family books are kept for lipican as well. In this law, Lipica has the right to keep breeding books or genealogical books for a Lipica horse. If we put this in this law on Kobilirana Lipica, we would violate the provisions of the directive and go to the European Court of Justice with regard to the management of the family books. Let's read the livestock law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u324	I would warn you that there would be no debate, but we are discussing this article or the amendment to this article. Anyone else please? Mr. Jelinčič, you've already had your word. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I, if I remember correctly, and I think I remember very well that you started your speech like, "I'll back you up." [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u325	[[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] What about the parliamentary group? [[...]] There's more of us here, not just me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u326	We have decided precisely by the rules of procedure that the order is to be followed. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u327	I request, on behalf of the Group of Members, an hour before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u328	We'll finish the explanations of vote first. Anyone else please? Procedurally, Mr. Squeakle, please. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u329	Mr President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u330	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u331	This is a farce going on in here, farce and nonsense. It is true that we are discussing horses, but there is no need for horses to be in here.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u332	Here you are, Mr. Jelinčič, I will return you by giving you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u333	Thank you very much, on behalf of the Group of Members. And I am pleased that you have followed your thinking, not that you have listened to Mr Plewell, as you have done several times, and then there have been such strange moments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u334	I gave you my word, not Mr. Plewell. And that's why I'm asking you to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u335	Yes, because I thanked you, Mr President, and I commended you. The fact is that keeping the original book of the Lipicans also raises the issue of ownership of this book, and this is important. These books were stolen and are in Italy. And if we write in the law "runing the native book of the Lipicans", we have a certain support for the demand that the books come back to us to do what the previous government has not done. In this case, Mr. Sok, you should understand. Mr. colleague from the People's Party, it is important to be aware that we have "lex specialis" here, not "lex generalis". That is why this can be stated in this law and also explicitly explained for the same reason as I told Mr Sok earlier. It is therefore very important that we support this amendment. Well, if you don't back him up, you won't back him up, it'll just fall on your head in time, and people will know who broke him. After all, people read about how someone voted, and they remember that, so it's pointless that you're here against national interest, because you don't understand things, you vote differently. I think the damage is all together, the damage is the law to fall by itself, the damage is Lipice, the damage is our national symbol and the pride of being here are two or three or five people who don't understand that they're going to break one amendment from which no one will have a gold crown or maybe a crown from a Polish flower on their head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u336	Mr. Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u337	Thank you very much. I'll support this amendment myself. Here I am particularly alert to the difference between the genealogical book and the original genealogical book. That's even more because I don't want anyone to end up characterizing us as donkeys that we don't even know how to look after horses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u338	Mr. Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u339	Thank you for your word. I will support this amendment myself for one simple reason. But perhaps it would be time for the European Court to really react and then we will see what we are dealing with, but the previous step is to adopt this amendment today and bring it into law. Then we'll stop arguing over the back of the shadow.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u340	Mr. Juban has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u341	Thank you very much, Chairman. I will support the amendment for the reason that the original genealogical book is something completely different from the genealogical book. We have different kinds of animals in Slovenia: economic, sports, hobbies, for the needs of the police, the military and so on. And within different species of animals are breeds that are either Slovenian or are from all over the world. And there is a difference if we keep genealogical books for different kinds of, say, dogs, we also lead for a German shepherd who is not a Slovenian dog and we do not need the original genealogy book, but we lead for a karst shepherd who is the original Slovenian dog. And among the horses is a Lipican who has one genealogical book for all horse breeds, different genealogical books for different breeds of horses, but only one original, which is a Lipican, or one of the originals, and has an original genealogical book in which there was a lot of speech and a legitimate speech in the history of this House. And to conclude. I will support the amendment because the original genealogy book is something completely different from the genealogical book, and it is much more important and most important to the Lipican and is important that it is written in this law. Less important are genealogical books that play a different role and are used elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u342	Mr. Kokalj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u343	I will not support the amendment because of the way in which the applicants propose it and also explain it in this House. I think that Mr President should make it order, I think that this is a "burka" approach that does not deserve or we Members of Parliament do not deserve such an approach. That's the first one. Second. This amendment won't solve the problem. If the party now proposing this amendment had been constructively involved in Slovenia's entry into the EU, it would probably have helped to ensure that this problem, cited as the reason for the amendment, would not have been present.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u344	Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u345	President, I have a procedural proposal to ask you to hold a debate so that people here will not explain why "out of spite" will not support an amendment. It's about Lipica, it's about a cultural monument, it's not about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u346	Mr. Squeakle, I'd like to warn you again. An explanation for the vote before the decision, not the debate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u347	and I propose, Mr President, that I clarify my procedural proposal. [[..]] There's a lot of blood on the left, right, up, down, take a break for 10 minutes, let people consult, let's have some coffee, and let's vote not "out of spite" but because of the law. And this law has been passed for the first time since we've been in the EU. So it doesn't matter whether you support it or not. You're giving the wrong political message when you're "out of spite" voting against it. I suggest we take a break.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u348	This is a debate. What do you suggest or what is your decision to explain your voice?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u349	I propose that, in order to calm the situation, you decide on a break in which a consultation within the groups of Members is held. We don't need a dedication.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u350	Since I believe that this was your question of procedural nature, I would like to ask if your leader of the parliamentary group. [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[...]] Mrs. Shirca, please. I would before that - I'm sorry, Mrs Shirca - please, you may be right to need all of us together, especially some few pauses. However, let's be serious, at least please be serious and the level of our behavior should be a little higher than it has been so far. Here you go, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u351	I have a personal name this time, but I have a problem because I still have three amendments to Article 9, so very quickly. We've focused on one, but three more are important. One amendment seeks to regulate management in such a way that the number of professional management services does not decrease. Such a downgrading of professional functions is also unacceptable, because I would really like to be at peace and please if [[..]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u352	Thank you very much, Mrs. Shirca for your help. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u353	Under the new law, leadership will be very headstrong. Now we have a manager coming in from Rašica's crisis headquarters, and he says he's going to do everything the government says he's going to do. We do not have sufficiently defined conditions for the Director, so we say with the amendment that there is a need to have more educational conditions than the current law states. And since there is no professional leadership in those places where the emphasis on horse training is on, and because professional leadership is being abolished where cultural heritage is concerned, we propose that correction be made here, that assistance in the field of cultural heritage protection and assistance in the protection and breeding of horses should also be provided in the professional leadership. This is essential because such a specific organization as the Kobeline Lipica needs more satellites, not just one that is now installed in a way that it does not need to know enough and know what a person would expect from such a public institution. Let me also point out that the professional services in Leipzig were immediately replaced by the statute when they expressed themselves against such a bill and were already subject to one sentence, now additional with the castration of their position in the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u354	Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u355	Once again, I will explain in my name, because obviously we are involved in the concept of the original and genealogical book. I would expect my colleague Juban to then define more precisely what this means, and once again, Lipica runs the original genealogy book. The difference between the original book and the genealogical book is that if you keep the original genealogical book, you define the qualities that some animals need to have. But when it comes to the genealogy book, it is only a description of the qualities that are passed on. So at horses it is called the original genealogical book, which is Lipica according to, as colleague Bajc said, it also leads and is defined in the livestock law. What some think, in particular Mr Jelinčič, is that in Lipica we would keep all the original books for all the lipices. We cannot write this in this law because it is not a matter of this law, but it is a matter of agreement at the level of the European Union. There, both the Austrians and the Italians and the Czechs, as well as the Hungarians, competed for the management of these books for lipicances; they say everywhere where the Lipicans are being reared. And here Slovenia was not successful in the pre-accession negotiations in order to lead this only in Lipica. That is why once again I say that the original genealogical books are being kept today for lipicances in three places in Europe, and this is a decision taken at European Union level. So that's what I can add to it, and that's why I don't think this amendment comes into consideration for us to accept it as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u356	Mr. Squeak, what do you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u357	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 73, as Deputy Head of the Group of Members, because you have not done so yourself, I ask for a five-minute leave of absence to consult the Group as soon as possible, so that we can explain our decisions. I hope that you will also be able to consult in other parliamentary groups at this time. This is a very important decision and Article 73, paragraph 2, gives us this right. So I hope that I will - if you allow me to say to the end the reasons for such a break in procedural time, without being hindered by anyone. The dilemmas that have opened up with the article or amendment that we have proposed are, of course, worse than the discussion between, so to speak, experts on such or other law that defines genealogical books. The issues are related to the basic question of what negotiating position we create in the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u358	Mr. Squeakle, you made a proposal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u359	Can you do that? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u360	You started to debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u361	Mr. Chairman, may I have your right? [[...]] Let me finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u362	Someone else would like a reason for the vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u363	I can explain. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u364	The procedural question was yours, not your explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u365	I explain why we believe that a pause, a break for everyone, not just for our group of Members is necessary during the three-minute period: in order to consider all aspects of why this amendment should be supported at this time of the break. [[...]] And these aspects are related to the content of the law and not to the content of the livestock law, which is related to the content of the Kobilana Lipica Act, which is a cultural monument. This is why representatives of the Ministry of Culture and not the Ministry of Agriculture follow us. I propose to the Members and Members of the ruling coalition to consider supporting our amendment. Presidents, I expect you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to give us the right to a five-minute recess at this point of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u366	Before I give you my word, I'm asking if anyone else wants to explain their vote before taking a break? Mr. Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u367	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Clearly, then, some have not yet understood the difference between keeping the genealogy book and keeping the original genealogy book. The family books are more and know that even in Lipica they keep some books, that they do not have only horses added and look at them every day, but they also have some records, they have something on their ears, etc. But the question is, who will lead the original genealogy books? And if we say nonstop that this is our horse, then it is also necessary that we have some foundation in negotiating positions, that we insist on keeping our ancestral books. And that's all the philosophy of this amendment, and I don't understand why you're opposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u368	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčič, a procedural question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u369	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I shorten my initial one hour to 10 minutes by including those 5 minutes from Mr. Cwickl and an additional 5 minutes from the Slovenian National Party, which together comes in 10 minutes, 5 and 5 - 10. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u370	Thank you very much. Is there another one? [[...]] Is it over? Mr. Jelinčich. I'm adjourning the session for 10 minutes, and I must say, you've used this very nicely to list your bean. We'll resume the session at 6.38 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u371	Dear Members and Members! We continue the adjourned meeting after the recess requested by both members of the Group. Any of the representatives of both groups want a word? Representative of the Slovenian National Party? You want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u372	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I think that during this time the Members of the ruling coalition, at least some, have overlooked that this is a very important matter and that we are talking about the "ecus cabalus" not "ecus a sinus", so it makes sense that we are also voting in this and in this connection. This is said to support the amendment under point 2, tabled by the Liberal Democracy, and thereby settle at least one matter. I would expect the gentlemen of the coalition to understand and understand that if the previous government has not done one thing, it is not necessary to insist on this nonsense, but it must be corrected and we can do so by voting for another amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u373	Would you like a word on behalf of the LDS Parliamentary Group? Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u374	Thank you, Chairman. I might just repeat what I said. It is imperative that we accept this amendment to Article 9 because we have said back the whole history of the discussion on Lipica that Lipica is the cradle of Lipica. And if it is a cradle, then in this location, the original genealogical book must be kept in this breeding organization. And the original genealogical book, given by the competent or authorized breeding organization of the competent minister, is something else, such as a simple genealogical book, which has been available since 2000, for a species of animals, where we can identify where the parents are from and what the successors are from, and then the books continue to be kept, so that we know what animals we are dealing with. Lipiscanec is something unique, historical, cultural, economic or otherwise, sportingly viewed and it is important that Lipica has competence on the one hand, on the other hand the possibility of keeping the original genealogical book. In this way, let us give her the opportunity to keep a copy of the original genealogy book. And we in the LDS Group have assessed the need to confirm this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u375	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on amendment number 2 to Article 9. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 38. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the third amendment to the same Article, to the 9th Article of the Liberal Democracy Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. 77 Members and Members voted, 35 to 42. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 42]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the fourth amendment to Article 9 of the Liberal Democracy Club. We're moving on to decision-making. The vote is under way. 76 Members and Members voted for 36 to 40. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the fifth amendment to the 9th Article of the Liberal Democracy Group. We're voting. 77 Members and Members, 33 votes to 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the amendments, these are two amendments to Article 11. [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] Yeah, there's only one amendment because the other one's irrelevant. [[...]] We are moving on to the first amendment to the 11th Article of the Slovenian Democratic Party, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u376	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I would say that this amendment makes some sense if we had a plan for the protection and development of the Kobilar Lipica. If we had a plan, we wouldn't be accepting this law today. That's what you're saying, until there's a golf course there, of course everything will go back to the way it was. Nothing will be done, nothing will be resolved, everything will be even more in ruins, and the native books of origin will continue to be kept by the Italians. In short, it's kind of like, you have the feeling that the government coalition has agreed with the Italian state, that they're just going to leave the lipicances to the lacquers, and that maybe sometimes they'll be allowed to have an event in Italy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u377	Mr. Jelinčič, allow me to warn you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u378	I will not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u379	There's something I'd like to remind you of your previous debate. In the Slovenian Parliament, in the National Assembly, I would ask you to use the names of our neighbours Italians and Austrians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u380	Mr President, the dictionary of the Slovenian book language speaks well that the words "lah" and other similar are allowed or that these are old-fashioned expressions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u381	Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u382	In my own name. I will not support this amendment. And this is not because, as in an emergency, we are amending the Kobilana Lipica Act, and then, in the transitional provisions, the government has six months to regulate a sub-law. It's a Slovenian democracy. The National Assembly has adopted a very important law in exceptional circumstances, in periods shorter than a bad month, and the government will adopt a plan within 6 months, issue an act within 3 months and so on. In the meantime, as you say, Members of the ruling coalition, some programme for the protection and development of the Kobilar Lipica. It is interesting that it is written with a small beginning, of course, because it does not exist as a document, but is probably conceived somewhere in the imaginary curves of the president of the Cobile Lipica Supervisory Board. Therefore, I cannot support an amendment that basically says: well, if the government does not accept within six months what Article 11 commands it, then it will apply, written with a small starting point, that some programme of protection and development is in place. What it is, how it changes, who determines it, who accepts it - nothing about it. That's why, of course, I won't support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u383	Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u384	This amendment says that until everything is assembled in Lipica, the programme for the protection and development of Kobilarna Lipica, which is to be adopted under the Kobiliar Lipica Act, will apply. Let me remind you that this programme for the protection and development of Kobilarna Lipica, which was adopted by the Government at its meeting in March 2006, is not in accordance with or under the law on cobala Lipica, nor with the law on the protection of cultural and natural heritage and prejudices everything that this law already brings. He's talking about how many holes will be in Lipica, he's talking about which toilets will happen at the golf course, and he's talking about how Lipica will be cured. Which means he's completely redundancies because he's talking about something that's already law-abiding and he's inconsistent with the law in force. However, that the programme for the protection and development of Kobilarna Lipica is also inconsistent with the guidelines for the protection of cultural heritage, we all know, according to the sanctions that have been given to those who have spoken of this non-compliance. Of course, in this sense it is unacceptable to support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u385	Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u386	Even in the Group of Social Democrats, we will not support this for one simple reason - because it is a matter already done and it makes no sense. In fact, the program has already been adopted. And I showed today at the meeting that he went to the government procedure the day before yesterday to propose a decision amending the decision of the organisations of Kobilarna Lipica on the basis of the programme of protection and development of Kobilarna Lipica adopted by the Government. Regardless of the fact that it is only today that I will pass the law on Kobilana Lipica, on the basis of which this programme is to be made and then on the basis of the programme, this change of reorganisation. I'm gonna say it again, someone just makes a fool of us, and make a fool of themselves, but in a few years, we might be able to tell him.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u387	We're moving to please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u388	Thank you very much. Allow me to read some of Kocbe's verses in support of this amendment, I'm sure you know them. "Others worshiped sacred cows and dragons, thousand-year-old turtles and lions with feathers, unicorns, two-headed eagles and phoenixes, and we chose the most beautiful animal. She turned out to be in the battlefields and in the circuses, carrying queens and gold monsoons, so the Danish emperors spoke French with skilled diplomats, Italian with wicked actresses, Spanish with an endless god and German with untrained servants, and with horses they spoke Slovenian." And I'm adding to these Kocbe verses: good thing there weren't Lipcans here today and they didn't listen to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u389	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u390	Thank you for your word, chairman. I myself will oppose this amendment, as already announced by the leader of the Group of Members. If someone hasn't made a fool of us by now, at least now someone's made a fool of himself. And it is true that if the Lipicans could laugh, they would now laugh with all their teeth and with all their hearts just you, Mr. Chernač.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u391	Please, Mr. Jelinčič, would you like? In your own name? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u392	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Yes, it is, Mr. Chernač read these versions very well, but apparently he didn't understand them, because if he understood them, then he would have voted for at least one of those amendments that we had. Otherwise, there's nothing to be expected from the former Home Affairs Commissioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u393	Mr. Jelinčič, please, please, please, it's an explanation of the voice. Anyone else, please? We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. 79 Members and Members, 47 votes to 30. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 30]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I take it that the Second reading assembly has adopted the amendments to [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] I'd ask nicely if you'd follow and not interrupt me needlessly. [[...]] I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 5, 9 and 11 of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this Article. Mr. Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u394	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I therefore predict that a qualified candidate, the LDS Group of Members, wants to table an amendment for the third reading. I ask for a reasonable period of time and if possible, this vote shall take place at the end of the meeting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u395	Thank you very much. I hereby inform you that I am terminating this There is a possibility that today we are discussing this as the last point if you prepare an amendment, or if we interrupt this point and continue with this point tomorrow after the final vote. [[...]] In view of the way you have reacted, I decide to proceed with this point tomorrow after the vote has ended. I'm breaking up with this point. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a law on the consent and guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for Dars liabilities under credit and debt securities leased or issued for the restructuring of certain Darsa loans, following an urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting on the law. There are 76 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda. We continue with the adjournment of the 1st item on the agenda - questions raised by Members and Members. Firstly, according to the proposal of Mr Saš Pečet, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the Saš Pečet's question on the withdrawal of the country from the economic and financial sector." Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u396	Your Honors are here! Today, a question was asked to the Prime Minister. The question that has been asked in connection with the operation of the KAD, i.e. the capital company, and the question that has been asked in connection with the banking system should be with the New Credit Bank Maribor and the New Ljubljana Bank. The honourable Members, as I said in the introduction to today's question, are property owned by the KAD, the property of the State. In other words, it is the property of citizens and citizens. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is only the manager of this property, so it is right that the legislative branch of the government knows how this property will be transformed and, if people, i.e. citizens and citizens, will receive from privatisation or sale. Another dilemma has arisen. Which of these would the oldest generation who had been promised to get a refund through KAD's assets for their past work? Prime Minister Janez Janša said that they have dealt with the matter in the government, that he is ready to introduce us to it, so I ask you for support so that the State Assembly, as an independent branch of government, can also discuss the content, I think, of one of the more important issues this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u397	We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There were 75 votes in favour and 33 in favour against 42. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mag. Milana M. Cvikla will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of mags. Milana M. Szvikla on the cooperation of the government with supervisory institutions and authorities in the Republic of Slovenia." Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u398	Allow me, of course, to explain the reasons why I ask you to support this procedural proposal. Mr Janša did not respond adequately to the question of how they work, how they cooperate with the supervisory institutions and authorities, but failed to respond to what it means to do recently in Slovenia when the anti-corruption commission is lifted when the director of the money laundering office, when there is no director of the budget control office, who will decide independently in his conscience to carry out budgetary controls. Yesterday you suspended parliamentary supervision here and from now on Parliament will confirm that the First Minister's affairs were fair and good, that it is right that taxpayers are harmed to make work easier. That it is okay for ministers to attack the Court of Auditors when it is found that at the time of the Director of the Fund, a minister was recklessly managing the Fund, or that a minister could not draw money from the EU. All of this will affect the inadequate mismanagement of public finances. That is why, of course, I believe that it is true in autumn, when the temperature in this country is also reduced, to discuss this inadequate response of the Prime Minister, to discuss how supervisory institutions are being abolished after each other and, of course, to prevent democracy from simply becoming an absolutism in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u399	We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 76 Members and Members voted for 30 to 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 14th item of the agenda - consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor and the Student Organisation of Slovenia on credits hired to co-finance the extension and modernisation of spatial conditions and technological equipment and the construction and renovation of student housing facilities, urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting on the law. There were 73 votes in favour and 47 in favour against 16. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 19th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We have three amendments to Article 32. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the LDS Group to Article 32. We're voting. 74 Members and Members voted for 30 to 43. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the LDS Group to Article 32. We're voting. 74 Members and Members voted 29 to 45. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment of the LDS Group to Article 32. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u400	On behalf of the Group of Members, I will explain the amendment and ask for your support. This amendment does not seek anything other than to ensure that the relevant grounds are confirmed by the Insurance Supervisory Agency, an agency designated by the Director of the Government. And this agency has actually confirmed that insurance companies will be able to use different bases for the different treatment of men or women in Slovenia after the relevant actuarial and statistical data on the Slovenian population are given, as confirmed by the Insurance Supervisory Agency. At the time of the EU accession negotiations, we have allowed ourselves, as a country, to choose this exception, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which some other European countries have, and which take into account for the sake of equal treatment between men and women, that insurance companies cannot separate men and women, have now introduced into law; it is in law, but we want it to be regulated by establishing the basis for the various accounts of life premiums for men and women on the basis of data by the Insurance Supervisory Agency. This is the content of this amendment. We believe that this is a minimum, which is necessary not to allow insurance companies alone with such or other statistical data of these or other populations, currently use Slovenian actuarial data insurance companies from the German, the Western statistical area. In view of the European Directive, actuarial and statistical calculations are needed for the population in the Republic of Slovenia, which takes account of the diversity of actuarial statistics in men and women. And I think this is a minimum condition to take into account the constitutional equality guaranteed in Slovenia, regardless of gender.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u401	We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This concludes the third examination of the law. Since the Government has in writing pointed out that after the third reading of the bill due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the Government has drawn up a harmonisation amendment to Article 105, which you have received on the bench. Would you like to speak to a government representative about the harmonisation amendment? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u402	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The amendments adopted to Articles 79 and 91 in the context of the second reading of the draft law in the home labour body resulted in a legal discrepancy between the provisions in the proposed legal text. The proposed amendments followed a uniform approach to the draft law, according to which the amounts in the articles following the requirements of the directives are converted from the amounts in tolars to the amounts in euro. However, since this is a change in the substantive provisions of the law, it is necessary to postpone the use of euro amounts to the day when the euro will actually become the currency of the Republic of Slovenia, that is 1.1.2007. Accordingly, it is necessary to supplement the transitional provision 105, thereby delaying the application of the amounts referred to in Article 315 and Article 237 of the Insurance Act, which were amended by the amendments adopted, until 1.1.2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u403	Thank you very much. Do Members and Members want the word? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. So we are voting on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 105. We're voting. I find that there were 75 votes in favour and 54 votes in favour against 2. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[against 2.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. The vote is ongoing. For the first time, I do not find that 69 Members and Members voted, 49 to 3. [[...]] [[The vote was 49.]] [[against 3.]] I note that the assembly has fully adopted the proposed law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 15th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on additional concessional benefits paid for the occasional and temporary work of students and students, following an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will guide after the review of the amendments of 13.7.2006. We have three amendments to Article 2. I must tell you that the amendments are linked if the first amendment is not adopted, the remaining amendments are irrelevant. We are therefore moving on to the first amendment to Article 2 of the proposal for a Liberal Democracy Club. We're voting. 77 Members and Members voted 29 to 47. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. As I told you earlier, both amendments to Article 2 remain irrelevant - to Articles 3 and 5, I apologize. [[...]] We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading, no amendments could be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting on the law. There were 78 votes in favour and 47 in favour against 31. [[The vote was 47.]] [[against 31.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the second item on the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal for a law on religious freedom. On Tuesday 11 July 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been adopted to the draft law, it is not possible to submit the amendments in the third reading of the amendments, and therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we are moving on to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would be inconsistent with the amendments adopted on the basis of the domestic working body. Mr. Pece, you have procedural procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u404	Your Honors are here! The subject of a regime of religion or religious freedom is within the Member States of the European Union in the domain of national individual national issues, which means that each country can regulate this area as it personally assesses, that is, the country that is most appropriate. This is a very important emphasis because Slovenia is not bound by any guidance on the resolution of religious issues and, consequently, the financing of religious communities. The Slovenian National Party offered you a model, a model which is the only one in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia that speaks of the separation of religion, religious community and state during the debate on the working body. We regret that, according to our assessment, most of the members of the National Assembly have not properly understood this separation. We cannot talk about separation and respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia if the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is financed by the religious community. From this point of view, due to developments in the labour force, from non-engagement or ignorance of the government representative to views, to different questions raised, and not least because of the definition which has unfortunately remained in the law, i.e. in the law on religious freedom, and which provides for increased funding by the religious community within the Republic of Slovenia, thus increasing from 40% and a few percent of co-financing by the State to a minimum of 60% co-financing, the emphasis is on a minimum of 60% co-financing, i.e. insurance. From this title, within the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we predict that we do not want to participate in a law that is so clearly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in that part that speaks of separation. Without staying in the previous case, which was already not in accordance with the Constitution, i.e. in the old regime in the former SFRJ area, he even took a step back: increase the money from the budget for the functioning of religious communities, meaning in other words that you have decided politically that you will additionally burden all citizens and citizens through general and compulsory taxes in order to finance religious communities. But we all know well, all of us who are here today, and all those who accompany us, that it is exclusively a question of financing the Roman Catholic Church. From this address in the National Party we predict obstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u405	Thank you very much, Mr. Pece. In this way, I find that the National Party has announced obstruction at this point. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u406	Thank you very much. I speak on behalf of the Group of Members. For the parliamentary group, the law on religious freedom is unacceptable. It intervenes in constitutional provisions already in the name, since in addition to the constitutional concept of religious communities, the name of the church is also used. It does not respect the principle of equality of all religious communities, since, in all aspects of practical action and rights guaranteed by the State, it favours certain religious communities, especially the Roman Catholic Church. It introduces the principle of counting believers as a condition for the establishment, operation and financing of religious communities, contrary to the constitutional principle of freedom of religion. It introduces an assessment of the true and less true religious communities, since, according to Article 5, the State will assess, according to the content of its activities, which churches and religious communities are generally useful organisations and which are not, contrary to the principle of State and church division and contrary to the principle of freedom of operation. It introduces the State co-financing of religious activities of churches in the military, police, prisons, hospitals, nursing homes and the like, as it not only creates conditions for the free expression of the faith of those who are in them and would like to do so, but also finances them free religion. It pays public officials, priests, and, of course, only from the largest religious community, and thus violates the principle of equality of citizens and equality of religious communities, contrary to the separation of the State and the Church and the equality of religious communities. It further introduces budgetary financing for the functioning of religious communities at the expense of all taxpayers and, despite the huge assets acquired by the Roman Catholic Church through denationalisation, gives privileges to religious communities in the tax system and finally exceeds the framework set by the Vatican Agreement. We have tabled 26 amendments, practically to all the articles, to bring the law back into the constitutional framework. Unfortunately, no amendment has been adopted and therefore the law on religious freedom is unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u407	Thank you very much. Mr. Potch, you spoke on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr Gulic has the floor. On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u408	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! The law that we have before us speaks of religious freedom and should in some way operationalize the constitutional provision on religious freedom and equality of religious communities. Regrettably, this law earlier speaks of restricting religious freedom and how to achieve inequality in religious communities. Throughout all the articles, many of them have been amended, it is in fact a will to see that in some way some religious communities are raised above all, while others are completely ignored. The law before us, of course, does not in any way guarantee in any article that the state and religious communities would be separate and, of course, also in any of the articles does not ensure that religious communities are equal and that their functioning is free. This is, of course, linked to Article 7 of the Constitution. The freedom of conscience provided by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as the highest act of that State in its 41st Article is also undermined by this act, which is to be decided today. I have to say that there was actually an opportunity for the law to be reformed, a very large amount. We had them, you had them. But the thing is, it's gone back to the way it was. Now there is a law before us, of course, which must not actually be in force yet. Why not? Even if adopted, even if adopted, it will be adopted by such a minimum majority that that large minority will be threatened. Such a law, which deals with such sensitive subjects, on such sensitive matters as belief such as religion, such as spirituality, should be adopted with much greater consensus. Not only will I quote the constitution, but I will not just show that it is not in violation of the Constitution, it is also inconsistent with any other books. Thus it is written in the Scriptures, where it speaks of material and spiritual things: "But woe unto you, Pharisees, ye give tithes of the mark, and of the routine, and of all kinds of vegetables, but ye neglect righteousness and the love of God. This should be done and not abandoned." So both, and this is not guaranteed by this law - not by the constitution or by your sacred books.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u409	Mr. Magg has the word. Gnyardsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u410	Thank you very much. Our Group of Members cannot under any circumstances support this law. The reason, however, is that, at the time of coordination within the coalition, we have already encountered strong resistance to our improved amendments, which have fallen in other readings as a whole and to the last, including those which have proposed naturally that the contributions to be paid for employees or employees in the largest or religious communities should be indicated to the appropriate insurance companies, where they actually belong by nature. In fact, PIZ has no record of who is paying for anything, so it is not possible to control whether this money really runs for the purpose that has been declared. Finally, the law is absolutely contrary to the Constitution, and I must say that the legislation adopted so far discriminates at the level of the decisions taken to ensure the realization of religious spiritual care, such as the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. Indeed, employees in the Ministry of the Interior are no different citizens than others who work more than full-time and may have difficulties in realizing this religious freedom. We understand religious freedom by exercising it when we can. The state is not obliged to ensure that someone in the ministry is provided with this and that it is not possible to expect anything other than that the authorities will continue to recognize that others are discriminated against and that the Kurat will come to the Ministry of Education and, lastly, not even to a parliament where we sometimes work sixteen hours and those who want to go to mass every day cannot. Thus, it must be said that it seems that the State will provide the Kurat to all rather than the poor, given that it will support the richest religious community, which is increasingly embroiled in politics instead of soul shepherding and with the economy, which is someone else's business, according to the rule of the matter. Therefore, in adopting this law we will not only oppose, but simply do not want to cooperate and predict, in accordance with the business regulations, the obstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u411	Mrs. Pechanova, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u412	Thank you very much. I cannot support this law in any way, because it gives me not only an impression, but I am sure that instead of connecting Slovenians and Slovenians, instead of connecting different believers, it shares them. Not only does it divide them, but it even divides them by belonging to a small or large religious community, and it is appropriate to share individual rights and privileges. I believe that everyone's right is, as stated in our constitution, that you are free to choose religion and law. So this should be the basic principle of this law, which, as I said, actually divides people instead of connecting them. Legislation, which in particular in such a sensitive area as religion and belief, certainly cannot be supported by the fact that it divides people rather than unite them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u413	Mr. Rop has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u414	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament, we have been working at the stage of the adoption of this law, the discussion on this law, to make our contribution to the improvement of the bill, our contribution to making this law, which has the title of the Law on Religious Freedom, a law on religious freedom, truly a law on religious freedom. We have proposed and prepared more than 20 amendments, discussed them, presented them in a reasoned manner - none of these amendments were supported by the ruling coalition, unfortunately not. No argument was considered, no justification was considered. Among other things, we have drawn up a proposal for an alternative method of financing the religious communities, which would, on the one hand, provide a better funding system, a greater volume of funding for religious communities, greater equality and a significantly smaller constitutional dispute. All of this was rejected, although some of you have even found that the proposal is good and could even be acceptable under certain conditions. We have before us a proposal for a law that we believe is constitutionally controversial, a proposal for a law that privileged the largest religious community, a bill that is loose, weak, inappropriate and which introduces the budgetary financing of religious communities in many terms. Because it is bad, because we have not been given the opportunity to argue our proposals, we have decided not to take part in the vote on this law, so, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I declare obstruction of the LDS Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u415	Thank you very much. I therefore note that the leader of the LDS Group has also announced obstruction to this point, in addition to the DeSUS Group and the National Party. Mr. Potts, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u416	Thank you very much. We have stated the underlying reasons for the inadmissibility of the law and would not repeat them. However, I inform you that the Group of Members will not participate in the vote on this Act in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u417	I therefore note that the Socialist Group of Members has also announced obstruction in this vote or at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u418	We're continuing our session. Mr Vice-President has joined his Group of Members, so I will continue to lead the vote at this point. That is, we are in the voice-explanatory phase. Anybody else want to explain their voice? No, no, no. Then we move on to the vote on the law. We're voting. The vote is under way. I'm breaking up because my card's not working. I'm sorry. We are once again going to the vote. We're voting. There are 43 Members and Members present, and I find that we are inconclusive. We'll vote again, another time. We're voting. 43 Members and Members are present. I take it we're inconclusive for the second time. I hereby suspend the session and continue with the third vote in 10 minutes, which is at 7.46 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u419	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We are moving on to the third ballot. Please calm down. We're voting. 42 Members and Members are present. For the third time, I find that we are inconclusive. Therefore, I am terminating this point and we will proceed with the re-trial of the vote tomorrow at the time of the vote. We are moving on to the 5th item of the agenda. I ask Members of the Group who have obstructed the previous point to occupy their seats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u420	We are moving on to a follow-up to item 5 of the agenda - this is the third reading of the proposal for a law on vocational and professional education. On Tuesday 11 July 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter of the law, that the third reading of the draft law would be carried out at that meeting on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. The vote is under way. I note that there were 64 votes in favour and 63 votes in favour against 1. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[against 1.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 19th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you.
