ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please calm down and take your seats. Thank you very much. I begin the 17th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The meeting was convened on the basis of Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Anton Anderlich, Roberto Battelli, mag. Milan M. Squeakl, Franc [[Ferry]] Horvat, Jožef Horvat, Srečko Hvauc, Jožef Jerovšek, Aurelio Juri, Anton Kokalj, Davorin Terčon, Janko Weber and Milenko Ziherl. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the 1st item of the agenda, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, the representative of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia to the 33rd item, and the representative of the Council of Justice to the 39th item of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 17th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting on 12 May 2006. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We move on to a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. The SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups propose to withdraw from the agenda a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the cooperative law, the third being considered. You received a motion on the bench. Would you like a representative of the motions to withdraw? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. I note that there are no comments on the voting devices, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. We're voting. There are 64 Members present and 48 votes against 3. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal has been adopted. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda, so I propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and with an amendment adopted. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 17th meeting of the National Assembly is set. I hereby adjourn the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with the consideration of item 1 of the agenda, with questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u2	Dear Members, honourable Members and representatives of the Government! Please calm down and take your seats. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 21 Members and Members in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the heads of the parliamentary groups and in accordance with Article 244(2) and Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the national assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister. The Minister of Finance will then answer the question raised at the 16th meeting of the assembly, which he was unable to respond to due to his absence. Members have three minutes to ask the question, the Prime Minister and ministers reply to the question within five minutes at the most, even if the question is raised by more ministers. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question; please, Members, be aware of this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. On this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mrs Marija Lukačič, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology will be absent from 4 p.m., Minister of the Interior, Dr Dragutin Mate. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the Prime Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days, which will be published in the bulletin of the National Assembly. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On the bench, you have received a review of the questions and initiatives that have not yet been answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As has already been said, the first three or the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question for the Prime Minister will be asked by Mrs Majda Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u3	Good afternoon, distinguished guests, distinguished president! I refer to you the question concerning the public institution of RTV Slovenia. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you: When will you lower your RTV contribution? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u4	Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u5	Thank you for asking. Nice greetings to you and everyone else in the hall! As you know, the law on RTV Slovenia entered into force last November, and by this time many of the obligations imposed by the law on various bodies and institutions, especially Radiotelevision Slovenia, have already been implemented. Collective supervisory authorities have been set up, including the main individual have been elected or appointed. With regard to the third parliamentary programme, technical preparations have been made for the introduction of some experimental activities. The same is true for digitisation of programs, although we are a little late here, not only now, but for some time now. As regards the reduction of the RTV contribution, given that the new law no longer aligns with inflation, from the day the law entered into force, it has actually fallen by about a percentage and will continue to decline in line with this fact, although we do not expect inflation to be greater than what we have today in the future. However, it is a reduction in contributions. Previously, this contribution was in line with the cost of living. Thus, this part of the law is in implementation, just as it has been stipulated.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u6	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr President, the law had not been aligned with inflation before. It's easy, but it can't be. But yet, you're talking about some fictitious reduction in the RTV contribution, my bills speak differently. Since 2004, my bills have been saying since April that I am paying, we are paying 2,637,00 SIT. I paid the same amount in March 2006, 2.637 SIT. Mr President, in the brochure which spoke about the adoption of the new law, you yourself wrote that the new law would allow for a lower RTV contribution. In the same booklet, which had 16 pages, it was ensured that the law would contribute to a lower RTV subscription. On these posters with which you addressed the electorate and the electorate, what does it say, Mr. President? For a lower RTV contribution. You've obviously been deceiving and even today when you're talking about some fictitious reduction of the RTV subscription. You're telling us that you didn't mean anything with your promises or anything else. So once again, I ask you, "When are you going to lower the RTV contribution, as you said six months ago?"
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u8	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u9	So it's clear to anyone who masters the basics of mathematics that if the amount is nominally the same and inflation is 2%, you pay real less. That way, I don't know how else to explain it, because it's the easiest thing to do. We never claimed that there would be, I don't know, some drastic decline in this contribution. The campaign before the referendum, which was extremely hot, made it clear that there would be no coordination with inflation. And the authorities that are implementing the law are obliged to implement the law, not such and other brochures, and I would just like to remind the honourable Member that the referendum campaign is over, and most voters and voters have supported the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u10	Thank you. You want a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u11	Of course, your answer is misleading and incomplete, so on the basis of Rule 246, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure, I will request a debate because I believe that this was a fraud. That it was also a fraud on the basis of these promises and, in fact, a fraud which, Mr President, is quite own to you. It's not just pre-referendum promises, it's also pre-election promises you didn't make. What did you say before the elections? You said you were going to declare war on three known K's, but now you're shutting down the anti-corruption commission. And which of your K's, Mr. President, is the SDS campaign by train in Slovenia? Mr President, are we paying for your train rides to get your client to launch a pre-election campaign? And you promised, and this is where the insurance was based on the reality that employment in the state administration would fall by 1% per year. But your data show that on April 1, 2006, 82 people were employed more than last month, and since November 2004, as I read your data, as much as 784 people over 2004. In the economy in the most successful companies you continue your staff cleaning, in Del, the Insurance Office Triglav, Mercator, in Luka Koper, Posta Slovenije, in Abank, Inter Europe, Telekom, etc. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u12	Mrs. Shirca, explain the procedural proposal, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u13	The successful are leaving, the compatible are coming. I'm talking about a non-discreet, Mr. President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u14	On the response of the Prime Minister to your question, please be correct!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u15	I am talking about a discreet person between a promised person and a real person, and the electorate and the electorate and citizens and citizens need to know. Besides asking which K's include your cabinet's response to written [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u16	Second warning, Mrs. Shirca. Explain the procedural proposal regarding the Prime Minister's response to your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u17	Can you stop me for a second, please? You can stop my time, please. I have an explanation of my procedural question, based on the submenu that the President is promising something, and then the reality is different, as with the RTV contribution, also elsewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u18	Come on. Stick to the rules of procedure. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u19	And among which K's and among which K's [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u20	Come on, here you go, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u21	And among those K's, please, Mr President, is your cabinet's response to the letter of Cardinal Rodet, which apparently advocates the interests of the Italian construction company Grassetto. Before the elections, Mr President, you said that scholarships could be increased by 100%, I quote your statement - and today in government reform we read about the introduction of tuition. At the same time, Minister Zver promises State funding for religious schools, not to talk about promises in health care and the reduction of waiting periods that are known [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I would ask, honourable Members and Members, that no one is taking advantage of the opportunity for a speech given to him by the Rules of Procedure. The second question will be asked by Mr Bojan Kontič or allow Mr Kontić for a moment. On the proposal by Ambassador Majda Shirca to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to her question, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Here you go, Mr. Kontic, now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister! A while ago, the surgeon, Dr. Erik Brecelj, shocked the Slovenian public with a letter presenting the actual situation and hardship of the staff at the Oncology Institute. It has triggered a public protest against employees and patients, as well as all others, who are aware of or aware of the need to eliminate the causes of this discontent, not to say indignation. The complications in the tendering procedure for the supply and installation of operating tables point to the weaknesses of the current procurement regime, which, in other words, we wanted to address the disorder and irregularities in the procurement procedures. The complications in the procurement of the operating table are particularly sensitive, as any delay can be fatal for patients awaiting surgery. Desiring to find [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Mr. President, are you still holding the meeting? In an effort to find a way out of the problems that have arisen, the president of the country also asked the question or conclusion of the journalist Del that the current blinding of the eyes before the problems is over, said: "It has been heard many times that there is something wrong with the health invitations, that they are directed or that certain interests, commissions are concerned. It is difficult to act because there is no evidence of this, but I think this time we have focused our attention on the situation that the repetition of the practice so far will not be possible." Unfortunately, only after the intervention of the President of the State, the Minister of Health addressed a proposal to abolish the termination of the procurement procedure. All of this is indeed an emergency response, but at the same time it is good for patients who are now powerless and disappointed waiting to complete a procedure that may allow them a timely operational intervention. As a mockery of all these problems, however, we can see in the public media that the Ministry of Defense is almost at the same time secret and, of course, bought an operating table without a call. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! The decision of the audit commission is well known, but we are not aware of the Government's position on the urgent solution to this issue, so I ask you on behalf of the Social Democrats Group: What has the government done so far to get the operating tables in time? Is the government preparing proposals that would allow needless delay in the future, to which we have witnessed in this case?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u24	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u25	Thank you so much for asking. You could say he already has a beard, and I'm not answering a similar question for the first time. What did the government do? The Government has done everything it can within the framework of the law in force and within the procedures prescribed by the procedure. But the story didn't start with this government. Since the previous government, two tenders have fallen on the same subject and, of course, the law under which the Ministry of Health issued a new tender last year, the invitation to tender, has been in force for several years. And this law is not good, it is too complicated, it makes it possible to spin in circles and allows procedures to be delayed where they go, you could say, for the really urgent needs of people. The only responsibility of this government, of course I take, is that we have not yet changed these laws. In the final stage, there are extensive changes to public procurement legislation, and this is a demanding project. Unfortunately, I must say that those who have drafted and brought this law into force certainly have not contributed to development and economic and social growth in Slovenia in recent years. The law does not allow greater transparency, but allows precisely the opposite, in such a way that no one is ultimately guilty even if there are major irregularities. The problems with this law are not only in the field of medical equipment or health care, but they are practically everywhere. I hope that you will soon get a change of this legislation to the bench, and I also hope that we will get it through the procedure as soon as possible. As regards the purchase of equipment, medical equipment for the Slovenian Army was purchased as part of a military hospital. As far as I know, virtually all NATO Member States are acquiring military equipment without calls, so that there is no exception here for Slovenia, even if it were, this government has not changed the legislation, the work on the basis of the laws adopted in previous mandates, and therefore these two cases cannot be directly compared. However, this comparison is useful, just because it sheds light on the absurdity of a situation, when it is possible to obtain something without a call for help, even if it is urgent, you do not need it or need it less urgently, and elsewhere, when you need something very urgent, it is not possible to do so. These absurdities were even more, we inherited many more, and some of them were eliminated. For example, until our term of office, it was possible to purchase or purchase passports, identity cards, car stickers, even without a public invitation to tender, but it was not possible to buy operating tables or other emergency medical equipment, not under certain exceptional conditions. This measure proposed by the President of the State at this stage of the procedure is not legally possible, but the Ministry has tried, and the audit committee has rejected it. Let me also say that the audit committee that decided did not appoint this Parliament is still in the old constitution. Whether she has made the right decision or not, I cannot go into it, but certainly many times in these procedures it is not a matter of life's decisions, it is simply some of the rules that are sometimes actually written in such a way as to allow, as I said before, a spin in a circle, a failure instead of a decision, and that the one who knows it better, even if he does not meet any conditions, eventually allows some profits, because they negotiate that the one who fulfils the condition is not to lose it in time, then usually gives a concession. In these cases we have encountered and, unfortunately, I admit, we may have made some major legislative changes a little late.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u26	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The situation is actually very complicated. I think, Mr Prime Minister, that it will be necessary to stop slowly what the previous government has been doing. For a year and a half, we have a new government and a year and a half this government has to manage an inheritance, even if it's bad at your assessment and maybe it's changing things. According to my assessment, this procurement of the operating table is a kind of non-trust with the Ministry of Health, I do not know the exact answer, but I think that if we were to act in a timely manner so that these complications could otherwise be done, we would have been eliminated at that time. At this point, I don't even know the answer. The audit committee adopted the decision, decided and now the contracting authority, the Ministry of Health, is on the move. I wonder: How will the ministry, which is, of course, within your government, act in the near future? Of course, it will be necessary, I agree with you, to amend the legislation in order to avoid such situations and to avoid complaints indefinitely, but of course we will have to be careful, at the same time, that there will also be a guardian in the legislation, which will prevent the will of the contracting authorities and the choice over the rules of good governance by means of taxpayers. I would like to ask in particular: How will the government take action in this case today or in the coming days in connection with the operating tables we are talking about?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u28	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u29	Thank you very much for this additional question. Now, as far as responsibility is concerned, that's not speaking in mind. In this particular case, it is possible to clearly share responsibility without any confusion. The fact is that the legislation in force was adopted earlier, it was not proposed by this government, it was not adopted by this Parliament, and this is a key problem in this case. In the previous term, two invitations to tender have already fallen on the same subject for the same thing, and no one has apparently lost heart - as well as other similar cases have been in other areas - in order to propose a change. Our responsibility is that we have not already done so. The mitigating situation is the fact that it is a complicated matter, that it is not only a problem that has made this complication possible, but also a number of others that need to be resolved, and that it takes some time for the amendment to be well prepared and coordinated. I agree with you that it is crucial at this point what will happen next. On the basis of this decision of the State Audit Commission, the next phase has now taken place, this is the application of the negotiated procedure. I hope that this will lead to some final choice, to which there will be no more thousand complaints, and that patients will finally be able to receive appropriate treatment as well as related equipment. It is absurd that it is not a lack of money, it is not a lack of people, it is simply a bureaucratic obstacle, it could be said that the standard of these services, which must be provided by the oncological institute in health, is not already at a higher level. So, as far as this is concerned, I must also say that the surgeon who pointed out this situation with this dramatic letter has done a good job. Because it is not only about the impact on the government or on the minister, who is already aware of the problem and has dealt with it all the time, but also on the general public, so that simple claims will no longer fall into place, there is one thing on the call for proposals and that is why everything is fine, okay, effectively, well. No, that's not the point. Many times, calls are just blurry, putting responsibility on some imaginary committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u30	Thank you. The next question will be put by Mr Saša Pece on behalf of his Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u31	Your Honors are here! At the time of his appointment, the Minister of Finance said that he would submit his part of the activities, tasks and obligations to the objective of meeting the convergence criteria. At the same time, it should be noted that in exchange for meeting these criteria, he has neglected, in my opinion, an almost important part of his work cycle, this is a so-called fiscal policy, and left the task of tax policy entirely to others, according to my assessment of the wrong authorities within our country. That is why we are today, and much more painfully, in future citizens and citizens will be subject to new taxes, especially higher taxes. I would like to talk about the period from 2002 onwards when a set of Slovenian macro-economicists, particularly those who surrounded the current government, spoke, in connection with the euro, of inflation, in particular in the form of a solution to the fixed rate. I am pleased that the current or former government has not followed this policy, but has followed a different policy; the policy that has demonstrated the restructuring of the budget in a particular part is to monitor the prices of public sector services, especially in terms of blocking the growth of budget expenditure. In this regard, I would like to ask you, in view of the decision of the European Commission and the European Central Bank, that Slovenia is also invited to the monetary union or to the round of those countries in which we will be able to pay euro in the future, in order for this round to begin in 2007. The fact is that the euro can bring more stability, and from this title I welcome the decision of this government and the decision of the previous government that made this possible. On the other hand, I am convinced that the existing Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not done enough to protect against the dangers posed by the euro, mainly because of the fact that the euro on the one hand brings more stability and, on the other hand, suggests or increases possible errors in macro policy. And given that you have moved the implementation of reforms, especially those that will result if they start implementing your programme in order to move away from convergence criteria so far, in particular, in order to achieve an uncontrolled price rise, which is unfortunately in the interest of both international and domestic lobbying, there has been a simultaneous increase in public spending and thus an increase in prices, which, of course, means death or a disaster for competitiveness. In doing so, I should remind you that the euro can be beneficial only to those countries that promote or compete with competitiveness. And in this situation, only three European Union countries meet the convergence criteria. Slovenia is among them for the time being, so I would like to ask you, Mr President: What will you do in terms of maintaining the value of life of Slovenes and Slovenians? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u32	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u33	Thank you for asking. Certainly, the introduction of the euro is one of the steps that will in the long term ensure greater macroeconomic stability for Slovenia than could be ensured without taking over the European currency. Let me also say that taking over the euro is not something that is a choice for new EU members, it is an obligation. When we decided to join the EU when we voted in favour of this referendum, we knew that we would have to introduce a European currency. This has not been left to the new members to choose, as some old members have, say, Denmark or Great Britain, but it is a commitment, and it is only a matter of time for all the other 9 which have not met these criteria when this will happen. And before that, of course, the state has proven to have a stable macroeconomic environment. And from this point of view, this step is extremely important for Slovenia. In addition to direct beneficial or good economic effects, it also has indirect effects that are sometimes even more important. I think that in recent days Slovenia has been mentioned in the world media for the first time since its independence very often in prominent places, its visibility has increased, significantly more than, say, when we entered the European Union or NATO. We were in a group of 10 countries back then. Slovenia was mentioned with others, never in the first place. Now we are the only ones who have met these criteria, and that is a good indicator. Risk assessments relevant to foreign investors have also improved for Slovenia as soon as favourable convergence reports have been published by the European Central Bank and the European Commission. From this point of view, I do not think there is any fear that we might be looking at a future that we can project, which we can imagine, in any way jeopardizes the standard in Slovenia; rather, the opposite. Also because of the euro, we have not postponed any reforms, nor will the government now change its policies until, I don't know, price controls in the small segment where the government still controls them. We believe that pressure will increase in this sense, if, now, the criteria are met, there is no longer any reason for prices to be held back, but the government has a very clear answer to this. Inflation has also declined. We have the lowest inflation in history so far, and there is no need for prices to be indexed as they have in the past: inflation and little more - just in case. Even with the technical exchange of currency alone, there should be no major problems. Slovenia already has this experience 15 years ago. We did it in difficult circumstances and did not cause any more serious complications. Even now the government and Banka Slovenije are preparing very seriously for this. I think that also the Slovenian public, citizens and citizens, are preparing for this step seriously, responsibly, even with some positive expectation. Fearing that the introduction of the euro would simply lead to high price increases is, in my opinion, unfounded. No embezzlement is possible or it will not be possible to argue with currency exchange. One thing is worth as much as it's worth, no matter what currency you pay it in. Tolar was also extremely stable at this time when we were in the waiting room for the euro, so that, as far as this is concerned, there was no negative or no excuse for any negative psychological effects. Double price labelling will also be long enough for people to control themselves in addition to inspection, especially those lower prices where there is the greatest fear of rounding up. That's how I actually think it is. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] took the euro a big step in order to do so. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u35	I hope now that there will be no offense, Mr Janša, Mr President, but I do appreciate that you do not have much economic-monetary knowledge, especially on the basis of your response. I asked you about measures to strengthen Slovenian food, because it is a very sad fact that even though you are presenting us as an extremely successful country, Slovenia, with an average salary of 750 euros, will be the poorest member of this new wealthy society. And in this sense, I asked you how we are going to increase, how we are going to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the euro. On the other hand, you answer me, of course, that you are not concerned that there will be no serious movement, that the government will not change its policy either. Let me introduce you from this town - and I am sorry that your experts have not introduced you - but I am pleased, on the other hand, that your experts in this area objected in 2005 or - I apologize - to propose a different concept of a single course, which would prove to be in the form of 750 thousand new unemployed in that year. But let me tell you where it will lead us in all likelihood, as we are also reminded by the European Commission and the European financial institutions, which warn us not to be euphoric at the time of the introduction of the euro. The fact is, I am afraid that if you do not show measures to convince this, there will be uncontrolled incitements, budgetary failure is indicated through the promises of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as an increase in budgetary spending, which, of course, will be critical for exporters. But, of course, there are four elements that have already been adopted in the past, but unfortunately the counter-measure or counter-measure that we would expect from a credible one, and above all from a government that is aware of what our country is embarking on in this early period are: First, the issue of pension reform. As you know, it is contrary to an increase in budgetary spending. Budget spending is one of the main instruments for maintaining competitiveness and stability in managing convergence criteria. Further, you know you're laying down obligations to build roads, which is also death, according to my assessment. [[...]] [[Turn it off.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u36	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u37	So, I'm going to read the question as you asked it, so there's no mistake. We also got it in writing. It reads as follows: On the basis of a report by the European Commission on Slovenia's accession to the so-called monetary union, the government asks: What are the measures, or are they, to maintain the value of the national currency and thus the prices of goods and services in relation to the control of the stability of the convergence criteria? It takes a lot of ingenuity to understand that question. With the introduction of the euro, of course, our national currency will certainly be responsible for the stability of this currency from then on as part of the European monetary union, which means, of course, that the convergence criteria that we have now had to achieve are not something that is simply passed, but will simply have to remain within these frameworks. This is partly linked to the European Stability and Growth Pact, and Slovenia is one of the few European countries that meets these criteria. Thus, it will be necessary to get used to the fact that the euro will also be a Slovenian national currency and this will be a final fact on 1 January 2007.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you. Would you like a procedural proposal, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u39	I give effect to the rights set out in Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. See, Mr Janša, Prime Minister, this time I am addressing you, honourable Members and Members, because tomorrow you will decide whether the future of the monetary system within our country and within the European Union is worth speaking and giving an hour, perhaps an hour and a half of your precious time. However, the fact is that pension reform, as it is, is designed in a given system contrary to long-term enforcement or maintenance of convergence criteria standards. First of all, we're going to have to make a difference in this area. Secondly, proposing road construction commitments - we all know that in this term for the coming years, we have placed several thousand billion Slovenian tolls in the future, and this will destroy the so-called restructuring of public finances within our country. Thirdly, an increase in funds for local communities. This was also done on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this mandate. And it is also contrary to or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not shown measures to provide, on the other hand, maximum tampons for such funds. Finally, the non-minor sector, where we must recognise all together and despite pursuing the same objective, is the fact that there is no control and no competition in it, which means, in other words, that pressure or pressure on prices will increase. We already know about the pressure on electricity, water and utilities prices today, and as I said in the introduction, ladies and gentlemen, and last but not least, members of the government, the fact is that at the same time increasing public consumption and raising prices is catastrophic for Slovenian competitiveness. And because of the low growth, unfortunately, as long as we are not more responsible, especially the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we will be forced to return to that period of over-indebtedness to cover our budgets; however, with under-indulgence, we will be forced to replace this with an increase in prices, as we get to the basic inflation spiral, which in other words means that Slovenia, on the one hand, on the one hand, will be able to achieve better quality of life, and in particular that Slovenian citizens and citizens will receive higher wages, we will face that one of the almost ten members of the European Union, which will not receive pensions through the euro, but will pay too much for the euro. I propose or ask you to support the National Party's proposal, within the voting point tomorrow, to discuss this in the National Assembly. In my opinion we are concerned about this fear, I am talking only about fear, I am obliged to speak, and if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not aware of the period ahead, let us show that we are aware of this period at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u40	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Saš Pečet to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Prime Minister's response to his question, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The fourth question will be put by Mr Jože Tanko to the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u41	Thank you so much for saying that. A nice welcome to all, especially to the Prime Minister. On 16 May, Slovenia experienced a great deal of recognition, as the European Commission and the European Central Bank assessed that Slovenia, as the only one of the 13 new adherents, met extremely difficult convergence criteria for taking over the euro. It is true that we rightly expected such a report, since we have followed the criteria and also knew the data that are the basis for the above decisions, but it is still necessary to stress in particular that this has not happened alone and that the National Bank and, above all, the Government have done an extraordinary job. A comparative review of the prescribed criteria shows that we do not reach half of the allowed 60% of the public debt, and that 1.8% of the public deficit is well below the 3% allowed, similar to the interest rate: we have 3.77% and is allowed 5.9%. The most challenging task awaited us in the field of inflation, since we had to go below 2.6%. This government inherited 4.1% of inflation and was able to reduce it to 2.3% in more than a year. So it's a downsizing of 44%. And even though we've been hit hard by rising energy prices. With these indicators, Slovenia is better than many, including the old members of the European Union. In addition to inflation, this government has improved all the other convergence indicators it has inherited from the previous government, and this shows that the criticisms of this government have been expressed by some economists, who have become mainly disputing politicians, unwarranted and unwarranted, mainly because they have raised doubts in the public, in order to undermine confidence in the government and the coalition, in order to get a proper position in the media, and that is why probably on 16 May all these results of the government's work have been ignored, praised their past and shared warnings for the future. Dear Prime Minister! I am interested in your assessment of the importance of the convergence report on Slovenia's readiness to take over the euro as its own currency? I would also like to ask: How will this contribute to the greater efficiency of the Slovenian economy? Where are the possible traps and what will be the main tasks of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia after taking over the euro? I would also like to ask: How do you assess the Government's technical preparation and operational readiness to take over the euro from 1.1.2007?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u42	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u43	Thank you, too, for that question. In part, I have already answered some things to your fellow Member. I am pleased that from this issue you have raised, it is possible to understand the fact that we have received a positive report from both the European Commission and the European Central Bank. From the previous question, we almost understood that we had received a negative report. If the situation was in fact as Mr Pece stated, then we would not have received a positive report. I agree that it is very important that Slovenia has now achieved this goal as early as the beginning of 2004, when the previous government - and this has also been fairly recognised when these two reports were received - decided to go to the euro waiting room, relatively quickly, practically immediately after the entry into the European Union, and that decision has now proved to be correct. However, during this time of bad two years, some heavy nuts were crushed, the hardest that you yourself found was inflation. The fact that Slovenia was able to reduce inflation at that time, despite the high price of energy or petroleum derivatives, which have had a significant impact on inflation in small economies or in poorer economies, where people pay more of their wages for gasoline than in richer ones, is a special success. We must not forget that we were not the only three countries, including Lithuania and Estonia, at the same time entered the euro waiting room, announced the takeover of the common European currency as of 1 January 2007, but that Estonia had already withdrawn from this plan in last year because inflation had risen substantially, or to a large extent also due to the rise in oil prices, and Lithuania had missed the inflation criterion for the weak 2 decimal places, which means, of course, that the criteria were extremely strict, that it was not looked through the fingers, that both the European Central Bank and the European Commission had made a decision here to strictly insist on meeting the criteria. This is not such a normal policy within the EU, it has been used this time, it is possible to conclude a number of things, but it is a topic for another broader debate. It is important for us to meet this criterion. Now, what are the consequences in addition to what I have already stated; for example, the INPUR International Rating House is the next day after the publication of both reports, says 17 May this year, the credit rating of the Republic of Slovenia with A minus changed to AA is said to be a higher class, which is another very clear indicator of how the international community has accepted this fact. At the same time, with publications in international media, of course, Slovenia has taken a step that in no other way could it, it could, I don't know what part of the budget they put for advertising - everyone would know it was advertising. What happened to the convergence reports is a finding of the actual state. And more than just the fact that we have met the conditions, it is important for us that these criteria reflect a real picture in Slovenia that has improved. Last but not least, Slovenia has grown on average from 79% of the European Union's purchasing power in the last two years since we were in the European Union, to 81%. And if we want to speed up this pace and stay within the Maastricht criteria, which is our goal - even after we take over the euro - some structural reforms must be implemented and some completed. Part of this is also recalled by the European Commission's Convergence Report. This has been taken seriously by the government, and this report is, at the same time, a further incentive to carry out the reforms consistently, as set out.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u44	Thank you very much. At the 16th meeting of the National Assembly, Member Miro Petek asked the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrei Bajuk. Since the Minister was not present, the Member requested an oral reply to the next meeting of the assembly. I therefore give the floor to the Minister to answer the question, namely the question of Mira Petk, regarding measures to prevent money laundering in Slovenian banks. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am answering the question of honourable Member Mir Petk: What will the government do to address the obvious still open issues that are of great concern to the Slovenian public regarding the prevention of money laundering? Let me say this: within the Ministry of Finance, the so-called body in the composition, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Money Laundering, is operating. In December 2004, the European Commission said, several weeks after this government took over its responsibilities, a special Council of Europe committee to assess measures to detect and prevent money laundering, so-called "Moneyval", launched a third evaluation of Slovenia in the area of money laundering prevention. This assessment was sent to us in June 2005. We immediately contacted the Anti-Money Laundering Office, which has drawn up an action plan to address these shortcomings, which are not what may sound like. In fact, in relation to 49 international standards, it was evaluated 17 times with a "conform" rating, 21 times with a "largely consistent" rating, 7 times with a "partially compatible" rating, and only 4 times with "inconsistent". Let me also say that in these four cases it is not a banking system, but transactions outside banking supervision, it is the area of supervision of non-financial institutions. On 3 November 2005, the government adopted an action plan. A new law is also being drawn up, which will introduce a new 3rd Council Directive into Slovenian law, concerning the prevention of money laundering. We hope that this will happen relatively soon. Even this year we need to harmonise Slovenian legislation with that EU Directive by December 2006, to strengthen the effectiveness of the anti-terrorist system, which has not yet been adequately defined in the existing regime [[Therefore, this Directive was written in the first place.]] . Your question, honourable Member, also relates to a specific case of suspected money laundering involving a certain person, Koroška entrepreneur Janko Zakeršnik, in the bank LHB in Frankfurt, which is the subsidiary bank of Nova Ljubljanska banka d.d. The Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering does not, of course, communicate to the public what specific cases are being dealt with and at what stage individual cases are. However, I can ensure that the Office addresses with all seriousness and responsibility all the suspicions of money laundering transmitted to it by the authorised notifiers in a prescribed manner. I would also like to explain that in the work against the prevention of money laundering not only this institution, this office, but that under our legislation the efficiency of this work also depends on the work of the police and the Slovenian prosecution, and not ultimately our judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u46	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, with your answer, I am pleased, but not with the legacy left by the previous government in this area. While I was still working as a journalist, one Mr Jože Glogovšek said in this National Assembly that he was not in charge or task of journalists to investigate money laundering in a state bank. This gentleman was put in the position of New KBM Director in the former ruling elite. I think and hope that it is the task of us Members to ask and to warn about examples of money laundering or money laundering. I even think that it is in some way our duty not to talk about other bodies, which you have already mentioned, such as the prosecution, the police and the judiciary, after all, the money laundering office, which you have also talked about. And I'd say it's one of the more disabled institutions in our country. I think that the Anti-Money Laundering Office is more of an exposition of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which presents a report once a year at a press conference. As far as I can tell, there has been no significant impact on them, at least until now, perhaps because of their leadership. Mr. Minister, take this as a comment, not a question, you don't have to answer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u48	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I would not like to be understood in this National Assembly as if I were in some, I would say, an improper way to defend an institution or body for which I am directly responsible as Minister of Finance. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the effectiveness of all state institutions involved by law in preventing money laundering is certainly the first part of this chain. When it comes to assessing the actual efficiency of work, we sometimes overlook that other institutions, as I said before, are involved in this, both the police and the state prosecution, and not least the judiciary. I would like to say that, in this area, things can certainly be improved in the Anti-Money Laundering Office as well. In fact, I would like to tell the National Assembly that we will review the new law, and we will have an opportunity to examine how, in what way, this office should report to the National Assembly. It is understandable that this is the first step in the money laundering prevention programme, that certain things must remain confidential, but we also know in this national assembly the mechanisms that allow this national assembly to be sufficiently informed about the issue of national security, and not to hide something from you. The only thing I would say is that efficiency in this area is not only dependent on this office, but also on others. The opportunity will soon come when the National Assembly has the opportunity to realize what your concern is, namely, that information may need to be improved to this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u50	Thank you, Minister. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Mr Willi Trofenik will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Mrs Maria Lukačič, only the Minister is not here and I ask you, do you want to pose anyway?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u51	Yeah, I'd still like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u52	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u53	Thank you for your word. A warm welcome to all present, especially to government members! I regret that the Minister for Agriculture and Food and Forestry is not present. Ormož’s sugar factory was in an extremely precarious situation after the adoption of the reform of the sugar sector in the European Union. The reform envisages a drastic reduction in both sugar beet prices and sugar prices. It further complicates the operation of the only Slovenian factory, the so-called Balkan Regulation, which allows sugar from Balkan countries, namely Croatia, Serbia and Montenegro, to be imported into the European Union without duty, in a total of 360 thousand tonnes. There are even indications that exported sugar to Croatia is being returned to the Slovenian market. In view of the above, it is highly likely that this year’s sugar beet plant was the last and that sugar beet production will cease after this season in the only Slovenian factory in Ormož, as this is also announced by the proposal for a decision for a shareholder assembly to be held on 22 June. That is why I would like the answers to the following questions. What is the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food until the announced withdrawal of sugar production in Ormož? What is the sugar quota this year and what these quotas are for the following years and what will be the Slovenian sugar quotas if production is discontinued? Third time. What was Slovenia's negotiating base in the process of adopting the reform of the sugar sector in the European Union? It is known that our country, with ten other members, has signed a letter of intent to advocate a more mild and slower reform, all envisaged by 2014 and 15. Why wasn't this initiative successful? I am further interested in how the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food will help some 2,300 farmers producing sugar beet and will be left without the most profitable crop after the end of sugar production in the Ormož factory. In view of the absence of the Minister, I would like to state that I insist, in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, on an oral response.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u54	Thank you. In accordance with the request, the Minister will give an answer at the next meeting. I'm asking Mr. Sam Bevek if he wants to ask a question because Dr. Vasko Simoniti is excusedly absent. Can I help you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u55	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. The National Programme for Culture defines as the sixth objective the increase in Slovenia's involvement in international space with the help of cultural heritage. One of these individual objectives is to register one or more monuments or monuments on the UNESCO World Heritage List. Among specific measures, the programme lists the preparation of projects or nominations for the registration of monuments on the UNESCO World Heritage List and the creation of new proposals. There are four Slovenian proposals on the World Heritage List. In 1995 it included the Mother Kras, the Fužinar Mountains in Bohinj and the mining town of Idria. In 2000 there was the partisan hospital Franja. The list now includes 628 sites or sites, and our neighbouring countries are more successful than Slovenia. Austria has described eight monuments, three new monuments in the last six years, Croatia six, one new, Hungary eight, three new and Italy as 40 and 9 new in the last period. Slovenia has only Scottish caves on the list. In response to my question in January 2005 regarding the repetition of the application for entry of the partisan hospital Franje, the government replied, stating: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia orders the Ministry of Culture to submit an inter-resort coordinated proposal for, for the first time, the procedures for selecting potential facilities, serial facilities and sites to be included on the national trial list, from which candidates for entry into the Unesco trial list and the Unesco list would be selected. Second - organised care for the restoration of monuments. Thirdly - ways of managing and managing. Fourthly - the role and responsibility of owners, local communities, countries and professional services. And fifthly - expected effects of enrollment on the trial list and list of world heritage." In this context, the government continues, and then an assessment can be made of the possible continuation of the procedure for the description of the partisan hospital Franjo, on the list and the necessary activities." That's how 2005 rules. Since it has been more than 15 months since then, with regard to the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, I ask: Are the tasks previously carried out? How far are the ministries and governments by making nominations for monuments already on the trial list? What new proposals are being prepared and will they, as the first project, repeat the proposal for the entry of the partisan Franja hospital into the UNESCO World Heritage List? I ask the Minister of State of Simoniti to give me an oral answer at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u56	Thank you. As requested, the Minister will answer your question at the next meeting. Mr Zvonko Černač is next, who will ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Janez Podobnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, distinguished Madam Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! In 2002, our country adopted a law on ratification of the Kyoto Protocol, which commits the signatory countries to a series of activities aimed at quantitatively limiting and reducing greenhouse gas missions. These activities include, inter alia, improving energy efficiency in certain areas of the country's economy, research, promotion, development and increased use of new and, in particular, renewable energy sources. A while ago, we were able to learn that we have not been the most successful in this area in recent years in our country. On 5 April 2004, the National Assembly adopted a resolution on a national energy programme focusing on renewable energy sources. An important segment of the resolution is wind power plants, which include: "We do not yet have wind power plants connected to the public electricity network, despite the great interest of investors in Slovenia. Based on the current wind measurements, it is estimated that the entire area of Primorska and part of Gorenjska and Notranjska are appropriate to use wind energy. The amendments to the long-term and medium-term plan adopted by the National Assembly in December 2002 place wind power plants in the State Spatial Plan." Despite all these circumstances and the declaratory support we listen to at many levels, not one wind power plant operates in the Republic of Slovenia today, with hundreds of them operating in our neighbours, even thousands, for example in Denmark and Germany. But they build hundreds of new ones every year. And that's where the birds fly and grow these and other grasses. The orientations of this country, which have been adopted at the highest levels of decision-making, on the use of wind energy have therefore been clear for a long time. Locations for the construction of wind power plants are also identified. So where are the reasons why investors with an interest in setting up these plants are unable to implement their plans? What are the reasons why, for example, a concrete investor who wanted to build wind power plants on the Volova rib, who applied for a construction permit in July 2004, today, after two years, has not made a decision? Only obtaining environmental consent has been going on for almost two years, with a clear provision of the law limiting that period to four months. I therefore want to know what and when the Ministry of Environment and Space will do in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u58	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr Blackach. I'll answer your question. First of all, I would like to say that your assessment is that the interest of investors in building wind power plants in Slovenia is increased every month. This positive climate, also felt by some more modern technology in this area. You mentioned Denmark, Germany. I was in Austria a few days ago, in a small federal country where wind energy has also taken a big step forward in recent years. With regard to the increased use of renewable energy sources, as far as I am concerned as Minister, I can say in the parable of an absolute knock on the open door. The answer to your specific question is, where is the problem that there is no wind power plant in Slovenia at present? the potential best locations for environmental protection requirements are clearly such that they have come in part against certain applicable nature conservation guidelines which clearly state that in the environmental consent process it is necessary to obtain them. Now I'm going to be very specific about your question. On 20 April last year, it was to the Environment and Space Agency, with which I also learned in detail about the process itself, returned to the reopening process with regard to the issue of environmental consent for the construction of wind power plant and connecting 110 kilovolt remote in the area of Volovje rib nad Ilirsko Bistrica, party Elektro Primorska d.d. After that time, a very complex and long-standing series of activities were carried out in obtaining opinions, deciding on the parties to the proceedings, public decommissioning and the rest. This procedure is long and extensive. Today, when I requested a list of all the activities, it was written on eight pages, you won't believe it. As a key and final act in the environmental consent process, an oral hearing was convened on 6 March this year in which all parties participated in the proceedings with conflicting interests in order to clarify all relevant facts and circumstances relevant to the decision-making. All parties, no matter what their views were, eventually praised the correctness and high level of expertise in managing this difficult day-to-day oral treatment. She was the first one. At the hearing, it was also decided that the Department of Nature Protection, which gave an explicit negative opinion on the establishment of wind power plants, would provide additional explanations and justifications for its views. The investor will identify himself to them. Due to an extremely large problem, the investor requested an extension of the deadline after receiving an explanation from the nature protection agency. Thus, the investor forwarded its final response to the ARSO on 6 April this year. After oral examination, two other parties shall be decided in the procedure. One was supposed to change the status, and the other, after oral examination, wanted to enter into the procedure. These two procedures have not been formally completed, but they are in the final phase. We're waiting for the deadline for the complaints to expire. The decision on the parties to the procedure after the applicable ZUPU means in some way, as lawyers say, a silent interruption of the procedure, because it is necessary to decide on the parties before the procedure goes forward, as provided for by the applicable ZUP. The parties need to be informed of all steps in the procedure, otherwise this could be regarded as a procedural breach in some complications later or complaints, and therefore the procedure stands in a formal sense at that time. We can say that the current ZUP is very much in favour of the parties and allows them to delay the procedure if it is in their interest. In the last two months, we have also received some written questions regarding the implementation of the Berne Convention for the Protection of Rice, and also by Birdlife International Society for the Protection of Birds and the like. We could say that this issue has, in this sense, gained a European dimension, perhaps normal. At the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, I was also told that, given the reasons for the final decision, they also consulted some experts from abroad who had been particularly alerted to the sensitivity of the nature 2000 intervention problem or in the influential area of the Republic of Slovenia. Here is the main problem of the procedure we are talking about. That's the last of it. The Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia will have a decision to issue within two to three weeks of final decision on the parties to the procedure, as this decision will also require a two to three-week period when it is definitively decided in the parties following the procedure, which will be soon, according to my information.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u60	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u61	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr Minister, but I must say that I respect what you have said, but that is not what I asked. Of course, I looked at all this inventory that you've just listed here very precisely, but that wasn't the point of my question. I did not ask about the details of the particular procedure, but your answer convinces me exactly where the problem is in these and similar procedures. I asked what the Ministry would do to make it no longer a problem; what you just listed in five minutes. The reasons, therefore, are in our official documents not to say bureaucratic procedures that allow not only this but also in other areas, projects that are clearly defined in national documents and represent the strategic orientations of our country have been hampering or impeding individuals through a number of formal procedures for a number of years. Today we have heard a similar example in a very sensitive area, in health care, and something similar is here. In doing so, they bear no liability if they prove that they were wrong at the end of the proceedings. They do not need to place any guarantee, no cash that would have been roughly hit in the pocket, if it turned out that they were delaying these procedures from such or other inclinations. I have asked and asked for this answer, if not later today, what will the Ministry of the Environment do on this and on a number of other procedures to prevent individuals with no interests from delaying procedures that have very clear definitions in our documents. Otherwise, I propose that in this national council we take a decision not to develop wind power plants in Slovenia and amend the resolution adopted in 2004. It is unacceptable to restrict investors in this way and to cause them harm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u62	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Since it was very clear in your question in the written form we received, it was written when, in what way will the process around the Valois rib projects be completed, I explained it in very detail. I can answer your additional question very specifically. In Primorsk we have some very good potential locations where there is good wind potential, but it is not in the influential Natura 2000 area, nor in the Natura 2000 area itself. If the investor had chosen such an area, the wind power plants would probably have stopped or would have been at the most intensive stage. Unfortunately, I cannot influence if the investor has decided and has chosen an area that is in the influential Natura 2000 area and here we are very closely followed by procedures that are linked to the basis of the nature protection law, this is a European directive that is embedded in our process and also the law on environmental protection. I mentioned the Administrative Procedure Act earlier. You are right, the current Slovenian legislation does not allow the introduction of the Institute of Indemnity Responsibility if, after the procedure, it turns out that someone deliberately delayed the procedure and also abused it. There is also a change of the building law ahead of us, and we are seriously considering introducing such an instrument into this change of law, a known Bavarian crack, a German practice in this area. I have information that there are now some individual projects on wind power plants in the process. These are the only ones proposed in such areas that will not be encountered, I hope, against the opposition of the competent institutions, which are linked to the nature-protection criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u64	Thank you. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem will ask the Minister of Transport, Master Janez Bozič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! In Slovenia, 3 lives were extinguished at unprotected railway crossings in the last two weeks. In the Depala village in recent years, there have been six lives. The last two unfortunate victims left 7 minor children without one of the parents. In Slovenia, about 40 people lose their lives annually at unprotected crossings or inadequately secured crossings. There's a lot of public outrage. On Friday, the Krajina Depala Villages protested the second time that rail traffic was stopped across their village. After ten years of promise, they demand a solution, immediate insurance for all crossings in the only appropriate way, these are prisoners. The municipality of Domžale has been constantly and actively pointing out the problem, writing letters, citing meetings, demanding action. I myself, Mr Minister, called on you to provide higher insurance funds for around 650 unsecured railway crossings in Slovenia and later to amend the tough regulation on level crossings. The result is nothing. We have waited more than a year after the agreement was reached for the adoption of a decision establishing the professional solutions and arrangements for these five crossings in the Depala village. Causes affecting 2013 More. As I am aware at this time, there is no public transport agency budget for the regulation of unsecured crossings, in particular for this item, not in the entire set of funds prepared. This year it has not yet been regulated and secured by any transition itself. There are no crossings in the Depala village, despite six victims in recent years, among the crossings that are expected to have a priority after professional studies. In the Domžale Congregation, we decided that we could no longer wait for the distant and long - term comprehensive solution with which we had unfortunately started, and we would secure and build one of the three crossings ourselves, even though this is not within our jurisdiction. Another will be arranged in the neighboring congregation of Trzin, also at their expense. For the third, we want and demand that the country take care of it. I hope at least that 15 million won't be a problem. Of course, we expect you to help us with this, along with the responsible one. We want to show that we can act quickly and effectively. I hope that you will be actively involved in this; if desire is sincere, honest, then we can arrange it. Mr Minister, I ask you how much funding is earmarked in the 2006 budget specifically for the provision of unsecured railway crossings. How many crossings will be secured this year and what is the dynamics for the next two years and when one more railway crossing will be specifically secured [[...]] [[Turn it off.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u67	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All Members and Members of Parliament! In Slovenia we have 974 road-rail crossings, which are secured in accordance with the law on railway safety. Of this, 644 are secured only with Andrey's cross. This is a situation that unfortunately cannot be commended, and we are well aware of both the Ministry and the public transport agency. Throughout the country and not only in the area of Domžal there are accidents at level crossings, with more or less tragic consequences. In order to establish the actual situation and determine the criteria and priority order for the resolution of level crossing protections, a study was developed in 2005 which established the criteria for determining the priority and also established a list of 100 cross-sections where the method of insurance needs to be changed as a matter of priority. Unfortunately, the study itself cannot solve the problem, but it is the basis for the approach to solving the problem. Large financial resources are needed as well as the participation of road and rail operators. The area of the municipalities of Domžale and Trzin is very problematic, since there are as many as nine road crossings on a good kilometre of railway. And in the Depala village, less than 180 meters is about three. Because of the limited settlement of road links, the decision you are making has been imposed on the municipality of Domžale and Trzin in cooperation with the public railway agency to harmonise the traffic arrangements of the entire area. At the conclusion of the Commission which examined the area, the level crossing, which recently resulted in a tragic accident, is suspended for road transport and is maintained only for pedestrians. I therefore propose that the representatives of the municipality and the countrymen, together with the public railway agency and representatives of the Transport Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Transport, find a common way to resolve the problem in favour of all interested parties. As I am informed, arrangements are under way and, if necessary, I am ready to participate actively in them myself. The decision that the municipality of Domžale will finance the insurance of one of the crossings is certainly a great help in solving the problem. Personally, I have been shaken by every loss of human life on our transport network, and I will try to make it as little as possible. Now allow me to give you specific answers to the questions you have asked. First question, how much funding is allocated in the 2006 budget of the Republic of Slovenia to secure inadequately secured railway crossings? Unfortunately, this year's 2006 budget does not provide for investment investments, not for resolution and regulation of level crossings, but only for the provision of an economic public service. Level crossings are provided for by the funds provided by the Guarantee Act, which provides for 314.5 million tolars for 2006 and 796.4 million tolars for 2007. Another question was how many railway crossings will be secured this year and what is the planned dynamic for the next two years? For 2006 and 2007, 45 level crossings are planned, and the modernisation, signal security and running of facilities on the Prague-Ormož track and the modernisation of the Prague-Ormož railway line, the A project provides for four additional level crossings and six are cancelled. The precise plan for 2008 will be drawn up in the middle of this year and the transitions will be included in the plan on the basis of a study setting out the priority of level crossings and also on the basis of a motion for a resolution on the national programme for the development of public railway infrastructure. The third question was when will there be at least another railway crossing in the Depali village by the State in concrete terms? After examining the situation in the Depala village, it is possible to equip both level crossings with prisons. Given that the municipality has provided funds to regulate the level crossing of Depal you 1 the public railway agency will equip you with the prisoners the level crossing of Depal 2 when the mentioned guarantee law will also be approved, on the basis of which the project is to be financed. However, technical changes are already under way at this time. In short, I expect, as soon as possible, to deal with this law in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and then also the basis for the possibility of making an investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u68	Thank you, Minister. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u69	Thank you very much for your answer. I'm afraid I'm not entirely satisfied with him. In particular, I am concerned that you said that there is no money in the 2006 budget for even one railway crossing insurance, which clearly shows that unsecured railway crossings and victims at these crossings are not the priorities of Slovenian transport policy. Mr Minister, you are the Minister of Transport, not just for roads, but also for railways, and in this sense I appeal to you to make a part of these funds, or to try to achieve within the government - I believe that for such purposes you have - also for this, because railway infrastructure is completely embarrassing for Slovenia, exhausted, obsolete. I think you've got a lot of work to do here, so I'm not talking about losses at all, but about somewhere else. It is funny, however, that we have a whole range of institutions, bodies, directives, inspectors and I do not know what else, with many employees who do not actually have the resources to carry out their specific tasks, but most of the time, as I have heard, they are also doing studies, and the money is spent first on their salaries, while in fact the measures themselves do not leave much. Of course, I must also tell you that this long-term solution you are talking about is neither acceptable to the Domžale Congregation nor to the local Depal villages, which will continue to protest. They demand that the state equip one of these transitions and that this is also a short-term solution. A long-term solution, according to my assessment, takes about three years. A location plan must be adopted, discharges must be made, all roads should be made and all roads should be tied together alone, and this is something that does not satisfy the thieves at the moment. Therefore, in this respect, I appeal once again and beg you, I think it is right that the country should finance at least one transition from three to itself and place what they require. We'll do ours if you don't set us up.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u70	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u71	Thank you very much for the additional explanations and additional question. In fact, I would say the following: this disgrace of a bad rail network is not one and a half years old, but it is at least 50 years old or even more, in fact, from Franz Joseph forwards when he built this rail network in the present country of Slovenia. Second. Nor have the institutions that are finging in our space or in the Ministry of Transport been created in the last year and a half, but this is not an excuse for not going through matters professionally. I think that these things need to be handled properly and in accordance with the legislation at the professional level. And that what is an eternal and persistently open question, how much we have invested in public rail infrastructure over the past years, how much further we will go, I have made it very clear that there is a guarantee law in preparation or already being prepared to rent credit funds so that we can begin to upgrade and modernise rail infrastructure at all, in practice, following the draft national programme on modernisation of the rail network. I think that's the optimism I can say here. Even all those railway crossings where there are fatalities, I deeply regret them, are not the result of the last year and a half, and I must also say that I am not solely responsible for roads, but for the entire transport infrastructure system in Slovenia, the country and the roads usually go through rail systems and rail tracks, and the Minister for Transport is also responsible for these. If I were to be very clear, these transitions on the priority list will be financed as soon as possible under this guarantee law, and I would not repeat the figures because they were said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u72	Thank you. You want procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u73	In accordance with Article 246, I propose that the State assembly hold a debate on this reply at the next meeting. I believe that the unsecured railway crossings of number 640 and something else require consideration and require that we face it in the National Assembly. I cannot listen, because I know, Mr Minister, that you are a year and a half, but I also know who is in fact and which policy has guided, for more or less the past 10 years, the work of the Ministry of Transport. Not you in particular, but this stepmotherly attitude towards railways, within this, even to these crossings, will have to be regulated in Slovenia and I think there is room in Parliament for this matter. These 15 million are now conditioned by some guarantee law for a few billion, okay, if you achieve this, all nice and good, but it's sad that you can't find 15 million in the state budget, maybe even less, and even settle this matter. But I'm going to ask a rhetorical question, I think it'll be rhetorical, you won't have a chance to answer again, maybe in the next few days someone else will be. According to Sunday's SDS action, which consists of the majority of the government, Blue Train through Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u74	Mrs Zalokar, this is not an explanation for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u75	I'm talking about trains, and I hope I can. [[...]] Of course, I hope that unprotected railway crossings could also be observed on the road to Slovenia, and I hope that the government will find this money, in view of the fact that it is also made up of representatives travelling through Slovenia, and will immediately approach the activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u76	Thank you. On the proposal of Ambassador Cvete Zalokar Oraz, that the State assembly hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Transport, Mag. Janez Bozič, on her question, will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mag. Majda Potrat will ask a question from the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Milan Zver. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, honourable Members and Ministers! At the beginning of the previous week, public services reported that the Minister for Education and Sport attended the 30th regular meeting of the Slovenian Bulgarian Conference in the Cistercian Monastery in Stična. "I gather it," I state, "presented the situation in the Slovenian school system and the current and anticipated changes in this area. The bishops, monks and representatives of the ministry exchanged views and experiences in the field of private education. The church in Slovenia, according to Andrej Sjeet, is actively considering opening a private primary school and other secondary, vocational and vocational schools." It is not known whether the conversation ended with an agreement, but certainly the announcement made by Minister Milan Beast that he wants more private secondary schools. "He stressed, among other things," I repeat, "that he is not satisfied with the development of private education and that at the Ministry in the future they will do everything to eliminate the articles of laws that hinder the expansion of private schools and kindergartens." The church does not have great potential for the development of fully its secondary, vocational and professional schools, although it would like to be involved in private education. I would also like to establish only the last triad of primary school. I repeat: "The conditions are such that, in addition to spatial and human potentials, they must provide the entire vertical and a sufficient number of sections." [[The end of the words of the Minister.]] And now I want to raise the question that I have raised in writing. When the Government of the Republic of Slovenia addressed to the Constitutional Court an initiative to assess the constitutionality of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy See on legal issues, it was found that, for the first paragraph of Article 10, it was not in breach of the Constitution as regards matters of separation between the State and the Church. However, the explanation further stated that, in accordance with the second paragraph of this Agreement, private institutions in the field of education and education established by the Catholic Church should support them in the same way as all other private institutions and organizations. That is why I ask you, Minister, how are your conversations with the official representatives of the Roman Catholic Church in Slovenia related to the implementation of article 10 of the agreement, which we call a popular Vatican agreement? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u79	Thank you for the question, Madam Ambassador. My conversation or lecture, which I had at one of the meetings of the Slovenian Bulgarian organization, was perfectly normal, as was the case with many other organizations or societies where I represented the development and changes of the Slovenian school system, including from the point of view of the development of private education. We have put greater emphasis on the possibility of developing vocational and vocational education from the perspective of private education. The fact is that Slovenia has embarked on a thorough reform in the field of vocational and professional education, that we have also put a whole new law into the parliamentary debate, and that we have found that even in this area the possibilities for closer cooperation between the economy and the school system or the private sector with the public sector are not being opened, which means that in the future we will also have to open the door to the entry of the private sector in the future, in particular in the area of personal vocational and vocational education, which has been practically excluded from the scope of development and financing, i.e. public support under Article 86 of the Education and Education Financing Act. The debate also took place at that time, and members of the conference also expressed the wish that in addition to any such schools in this area they would obtain a primary school. More or less, I presented with the Director the conditions, the formal legal conditions for the establishment of such institutions and the story, or this meeting, also ended more or less at the general level, so it did not result in any concrete proposals on either side. Now ask this question, this is my lecture or performance in the context of Article 10 of the so-called Vatican Agreement. Let me read this article, the Catholic Church has, in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia and with the Canon Law, the right to establish and manage schools of all kinds and degrees, students and students' homes and other educational institutions. This law, this article, has also undergone a constitutional assessment, which means that it is not contrary to the principle of separation between the State and the church, which we interpret quite differently in public. Some understand this more than excommunication of the church or one of these two entities; others understand this more in terms of recognition of the autonomy of both identities and the participation of those entities. No such private school of this type has been established in my mandate. Mrs Shirca mentioned them earlier, by the way, including this. The fact is, all these schools came before me. They were mainly due before the signing of the Vatican Agreement and some even before the adoption of the second ZOFI. And that's right. In this case, I congratulate my predecessors on their parents' right to enroll in a public school. This right is codified in all international conventions, including the concept of private education development adopted in the 1990s, in the middle of 90, which was last written in the White Paper, where it is clear from the State that the State must develop the conditions for the development of private education. I see no reason to start closing the door to the development of private education, on the contrary. I would like the Slovenian country, like other European countries, to enable parents to develop private education, and we need to understand that the potential of civil society to establish these schools is relatively small.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u80	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. But in your answer, you said something that I didn't say in my question. I didn't contest the Vatican agreement, not article 10, not question the things you attribute to me. I ask you how this is connected because in the white book to which you refer, the introduction of private education was consistent with the representatives of the Roman Catholic Church in 1993, when the chapter was introduced. The White Paper sets out the principles that can be followed by a deliberate introduction of private education under conditions that are clear. They should introduce legal regulation in this area and regulate the funding system. And this is where the question begins. Among other things, it has been said that the church does not have such concerns about public education, and the logical question is that care is primarily a quality public education. And if there are no concerns, the question arises why to introduce private education in an area where demographic image even threatens the closure of individual public schools. In Ljubljana there is a number on the closure of five primary schools, in Maribor as well. And your answers I'm listening to are opening up the possibility of setting up private schools right in the big cities. The Education and Education Financing Act discusses when a private initiative can be implemented and when it can be financed from public funds when the public network cannot meet its conditions. That's why I'm asking you this. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u83	Thank you very much. You're talking about plurality, like there's going to be a lot of Catholic or other private public schools in some cities now, but you know that's not the case. There are major problems with the establishment of one school, and again, in Slovenia there are not enough potentials for civil society to mass-establish private schools or in any way threaten the public network of schools. On the contrary, it is not my only concern that I care about the quality of public school, my concern is that I care about the quality of every school, the whole school system, the whole formal education. And that means private education. I believe that this offer enriches Slovenian space, that the country is not at some point capable of making an acceptable offer, so it is also right to include other entities at all levels, at all levels. Even in the field of vocational and vocational education, including in the field of pre-school education, because the country is simply not able to make appropriate offers in certain areas of Slovenia, and children cannot be included in the public network or in pre-school education. Since the involvement of Slovenian children, in particular from 3-6, is too small, we must do something in this area and open the door to a private initiative that can complement, as a complement to the public sector, offer something new, additional, where the country cannot. Above all, we must never forget, when we are talking about opening these schools, it is indeed a matter of supplementing public schools, but it is also about realizing fundamental fundamental rights, which we often forget. I am also in favour of the whole public school, the public network on the inside being pluralized, there is no reason to have just one curriculum for preschool education. Why don't we have more in the public network, and that would be good, and parents don't want a single barracks and they have increasing demands and so do the country. So the country must be sensitive to these initiatives of civil society, and it must also go from the Catholic Church, which is only one part of this civil society, which could potentially participate in the enrichment of the Slovenian school space.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u84	Thank you. You want a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u85	Thank you, Minister, for all these answers. In particular, because you have confirmed my belief that the proposal for a law on vocational and vocational education is indeed an important change in this area. However, I would like to propose, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, that we should discuss this, because I believe that the area under discussion is worth such attention, given that I am aware that Slovenia, under the international covenants it has signed, is also obliged to introduce opportunities for private education, but it is clear from the decisions of international courts that these conventions do not oblige the States parties to the Conventions to fully finance or to fund a private initiative in such a large part. I think that this area deserves special weighting because it is so vertically extended from child protection to higher vocational education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u86	Thank you. On the proposal of the Ambassador mag. Majde Pótt to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Milan Zvera, to her parliamentary question, will be decided by the State Assembly in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The next question will be asked by Mrs Maria Pozsonec, Minister of Transport of Mags. Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A nice greeting to the audience! Mr. Minister of Transport Magi. I am asking Janez Christmas the following short and concrete question. When will they physically begin building the roads of Tornyi-Lendava and Lendava-Beltinci? For several times we have received explanations that they will be immediately in this moment, and the months have passed and the year will soon pass from the beginning of the construction of the roads of Tornyi-Lendava. If there is a problem in the marriage, then it is impossible to execute the procurement, then why not come to Parliament with a change of law, Mr. Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u89	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, and, of course, also for the question of the Member of Parliament. So this is the Beltinci-Lendava motorway section of 17 kilometers with an estimated value of 19 billion tolars and a completion date of 24 months. The project documentation is ready, the land purchases are under way, the building permit will be obtained in the month of August of this year. The tender documentation was prepared and confirmed on the board of Darsa d.d. Whereas this section is in a set of projects to be financed by the Cohesion Fund. During the next budget period, Dars is in charge of all procurement procedures in line with the requirements for the use of cohesion funds, which means that Dars is required to obtain prior consent by the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance during the preparation of the call. The Ministry of Transport has already given its consent to the tender documents and other documents, while the Ministry of Finance has given us some suggestions to take into account when preparing the documentation. At the same time, it has informed us that they cannot give formal consent at this time because there is no formal decision on the project by the European Commission, so Dars will now be able to proceed with the procurement process. However, in the event of a final decision on the financing of the Cohesion Fund, it will be possible to obtain the consent of the Ministry of Finance, as the requirements relating to procurement procedures will already be met. In the absence of any complications in the submission of works, i.e. complaints, the contractor will be put into service within three months of the publication of the invitation to tender in the Official Journal; that is when the physical construction of the Beltinci-Lendava section will also begin and, of course, after the completion of the proceedings, works will be submitted. It's Lendava-Pince. It's about Unit A from Lendava to Pink. The building permit for the construction of this section was obtained in August of last year. After repeated complaints and on the basis of negotiations, the Treaty is ready for signature. As soon as the contract is signed, the contractor will be put into service within the following days and will begin the construction or construction of this section. The second unit, the B unit, is a section from Lendava connection to Long Vas connection. The building permit has also been obtained. The contract with the contractors of the works was signed on 25.4.2006. Operators have already started the preparatory work, and physical construction of this section will also be witnessed this week. The transfer to the Lendava-Pince motorway section will take place in accordance with planning, which is the end of 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u90	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mrs. Poxon.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u91	Thank you. I didn't get a clear answer now either when the machines are going to be on the road, so answer me, because you're saying this for a year to start building the highway from Pink to Lendava. When exactly are the machines going to be on the road? Now I'm just asking the question, but people can't live there anymore. Every day 2,700 trucks go in front of houses and between houses, and I think the question will be more complicated if they answer. Let me add that the problems with the short-term measures in Lakosh are also related to window switching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u92	Thank you. Mr. Christmas, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u93	Thank you very much for the additional question. Once again, I make it clear that the machines are about to fail this week.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr Geza Juban will ask the next question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have little problems because I am addressing him to someone who is not, and I have only just now received a message that it is not possible to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs and that I can address this issue to the government because there is a reorganisation within the Ministry, which you obviously did not know when you were doing the order of the questions sent. I would still ask this question and ask the government to answer me. Will that be all right, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u96	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The Murski wave has been creating, implementing programs to maintain contacts of the homeland with the Slovenians. The resources for these contents shall be provided from the State budget. In 1996, almost 11 million tolars were thus provided, slightly less in the coming years. This year, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians, in exchange for the implementation of the project for the Slovenes, awarded the Murski val Radio only the fighting 500 thousand tolars. With the minimum means of state support, the radio will not be able to produce quality programming content for the Slovenians in Use, so we may no longer monitor these content on the regional radio programme. I would like to point out that this would violate both the resolution on the situation of indigenous Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries and the related tasks of the State and other factors of the Republic of Slovenia as well as the Act on the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders. I ask the government this time why so few resources are allocated for content that are of exceptional importance to the Slovenian minority in the use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will next ask the Minister of Health, Mr Bručan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Dear President! Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I'd like to ask Dr. Bručan if you're a doctor, if it's true in our country, who's sick, can die. We know the health situation is catastrophic. The waiting species, you argued months ago when I asked you on November 25th what they were, they were three months old, but we can't say that's true, but they're 13 months old, and they're still extending. The Ombudsman warned you in writing that it is inappropriate for difficult patients who are actually sentenced to death to be treated in such poor, catastrophic conditions in the stable. The same condition is also in paediatric patients. And Dr. Erik himself reminds you of this in a letter that he has also presented to the public that the health situation is unsustainable. On the other hand, we can find that you have almost completed rooms, that you have new apparatus that you have locked in the basement for many years waiting there. I ask myself as a member of the National Assembly, if you really don't care; Mr Minister for Transport, laugh at that, it's funny, yes. It's funny, yeah. If an open question is a social, student, isn't there no more obedience and true solutions for health care? Of course, it's also unreasonable to wait for the operating tables. This affair has been dragging ever since 2002, and somehow we can't save it. And now we're pleading with an audit committee. You know, sometimes we can make some kind of intervention law overnight and help each other out. Since the Prime Minister has given a rather indecisive response today, a very mediocre response, we are particularly interested in: When will the government, in this case, find a solution to how it will act, including with regard to operating tables, improve the health situation and actually begin to care for the most endangered environment of patients? If we continue to do so, then I really see no other option than to call people to state disobedience and with the money we put in this cash register, we will solve these problems ourselves, perhaps better than the ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u101	Thank you so much for asking. Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The findings of what they were exposed to here today as a catastrophic situation, that the waiting seasons would continue, have nevertheless slightly forced me to smile. Rather, it is not a catastrophic situation, and waiting periods are shrinking; all indicators are clear in this direction. Even the health insurance company has published data showing that most waiting periods are shorter, except for waiting periods for hip and spine surgery. We have certain objectives in the coalition contract. In the framework of annual surveys, the Ministry of Health also calls on operators to provide data on programmes in which we face long waiting periods and sometimes do not provide such data. In your written question, which we received for today's parliamentary session, you are also talking about pediatrics and waiting periods for oncology. According to the waiting period operators, there are no data in these areas. This also stems from the review of waiting periods for operations and interventions and physical and dental examinations prepared by the Health Insurance Office in 2005. In the field of oncology, some waiting years have emerged last year, but they are now normalized, either by the introduction or by the operation of new linear accelerators. At the beginning of this year, a new linear accelerator number 6 has already been in operation, and two new ones will start operating this year, number 7 and 8. In this area, we will certainly settle waiting periods in the same proportion as in all developed countries around the world. As far as investment is concerned, we must also comply with the rules in the management of investment projects and also take into account all the restrictions imposed by these rules. The contract cannot be launched before the existing budget for each year provides funds for it. Instead of a normal procurement procedure with negotiations allowing for the coordination and uniformisation of contractual terms, a public tender has been issued without possible negotiation. Because of the tough formal rules, they can never be implemented quickly, as competitors in competition have exhausted all successive legal remedies in order to achieve their objectives. Only after this procedure has failed can the contract continue to be negotiated. Instead of three months, procurement procedures take more than one year. That is why the Ministry of Health launched a procedure very early in the procurement of nuclear and radiological equipment. Exceptionally, the procedures were relatively fast and the equipment was procured well before the premises were ready for its installation. But it's not years, it's months, it's months, it's even less for a CT, which, along with a new magnetic resonance imaging machine, was open to the public, and it's a day in use on 10 May this year, without having to do it because of the operating tables that are more at the forefront, we're seeing this at all. The Ministry does not avoid any responsibility, but it can bear only its share, but not its responsibility for conditions which it cannot influence. This is certainly not about non-economics, but about economics. The building and equipping of the oncology institute has been going on for almost ten years. In the first six years of construction, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] a good fifth of the actual value of the investment. Its completion was foreseen in the budget by the end of 2006. At that time, everything showed that construction could be accelerated and completed in 2004, but there should be no further complications in modifying the project, which later appeared very often. The value of construction and equipment increased nominally from the original 13.1 billion to 21.5 billion dollars with these changes and extensions. Last year, more than 5 billion construction and equipment values were produced, and the year before that was 3.7 billion. Implementation is several times faster and much more extensive than it used to be. The Cancer Institute is expected to move from the old building A to the new building this year. Of course, all of this has already denied the idea that the Ministry of Health does not care about the benefits of patients, especially cancer patients. In order to ensure the best quality, including for the remote future of the appropriate facility and equipment of the oncology institute, the Ministry also accepted all user proposals for all additional purchases, although for this and not only because of these complications in public procurement, the investment will be completed within the original period of time, and unfortunately not two years before it, as it was intended after the water spill in early 2003. Also with regard to the new paediatric clinic, to which the question also relates, it should be pointed out that construction runs at the highest speed. Since the project does not change because we did not allow it, the user and the investor will not delay this project, which is currently in the process of awarding public contracts for the execution of installations.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u102	Mr. Friend, would you like another answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Bručan, I would tell you it's not nice if you're deceiving the public. We're on the air. I would like to tell you that the document of 13 January 2006 from the Department of Health Insurance has made it clear that your claims in public are not correct. Thirteen months is a waiting line, you've been saying waiting species have been reduced to three months. We've spent 5.5 billion tolars on that. However, I would like to remind you of your bureaucratic view of these matters. You know, when the government premises were regulated, without any appropriate calls, they got a nice increase in the investment cycle, just by adding annexes to a contract that was a few years old. And here we are making it complicated for these few tables that we can't buy because someone with an imperfect role has complained about the invitation to tender and in fact people are dying. You are reminded of this by the profession, as I have already said, as well as by the Ombudsman, and you are obliged to care for human health. You do not provide this at the appropriate level in this case. And so I would ask you if you could say, did we spend this money in an empty, 5.5 billion? Are you going to do anything to equip the area of the visa of the oncology institute or hospital with new equipment and that the doctors will have administrative technical and other working conditions? Will you start working on this because the money we have assured you that waiting lines are shrinking? That's what I was asking you. What bureaucratic procedures are, that is clear to us, and we can make them more difficult if we want, overnight, we can always make up new rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u104	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Now I don't know where this information is about the 13-month waiting period and which investigation. You didn't tell me that. Here we have a whole series of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures that we follow during the summer. And in 90% of all these diagnostic and therapeutic interventions, waiting types have been significantly reduced. If you apply for open-heart surgery today, you will be in Ljubljana in one and a half months. This is about five times faster than it was in 2004. So I think that talking about not cutting the waiting line isn't real, it's not real, and the data from the insurance company is as familiar to us as you are. But in these 13 months, I don't know what kind of area this is. If I knew, I could have answered. I have been working all the time in this mandate to give patients the best possible treatment, and we have proved this several times this year, including working at the oncology institute, and I will talk more about this later on when there will be another similar issue. In any case, we have made it possible for the Oncology Institute to have a huge amount of resources and we will have them, so that in 2009 we anticipate an additional extension of the oncology institute with investments that are in the Ministry of Health's programme, but not all can be done at once. We will implement the program of moving the oncology institute from building A, where the situation is indeed unsustainable this year. And I think that in this promise, which we have made to cancer patients, we have somehow come true. Well, given your perceptions that things are catastrophic, I have to say they're not. Last year, we decided that it is for cancer patients in the area of breast cancer that we spend a lot of money on treating these hospitals with a special medicine, a biological medicine that is not given by a wealthier country than us to compulsory health insurance. However, we have decided to do so, and we have brought this process down in very record time for the benefit of patients. In fact, all our actions in this direction are intended. In doing so, it is possible to face various bureaucratic and other obstacles that are sometimes difficult to overcome quickly. We have a whole range of investments in the plan that will improve the ability to treat patients. This is from the neurological clinic to the building of intensity and emergency in the field of Ljubljana, for which we also have both project documentation and financial resources. Therefore, I can say that we are doing our best in terms of the best possible medical condition or in treating our patients.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend, would you like a procedural procedure? Excuse me? Mr. Minister, if you turn it off [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that. In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to ask you, given that the Minister's claims are incorrect and that he says he does not know when I asked him about them, on 23 February 2006, I asked you this question about waiting species. You answered me very flatly. I also gave you a record of the health insurance agency, and on November 25th, not yesterday, when this operation desk affair broke out, in 2005, I asked you about the operating tables. And I'll tell you one more thing, Mr. Secretary-General. If you don't know that they're spending 150 million to rent places at the Clinical Center, so that they can work in bearable rooms, then read again a letter addressed to you by Mr. Doctor, in which he mentions the desperate state of health. And given that the answers received from you today are very flat-rate, I suggest that we discuss health issues at this reserved time in one of the future meetings, because what is happening today in health care and what is being pointed out by the dying may be a disgrace to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u108	In the proposal by Mr Srečko Friends, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's votes. Mrs Marjetka Uhan will raise the question to the Minister for Environment and Space. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! My question to the Minister of the Environment and Space of Mr Podobnik is about the construction of cleaning facilities in particular in settlements along the river Krka. This is how we'd start. The aim of the national environmental protection programme adopted by the Republic of Slovenia is also to build cleaning facilities. In most cases, legislative requirements have not been met and financially demanding investments by the European Union have led to the granting of a 10-year transitional period for the construction of sewerage systems and cleaning facilities. The Council Directive on the cleaning of municipal waste water also refers to requirements relating to the collection, cleaning and disposal of municipal waste water and the decommissioning of certain industrial waste water. The Directive contains commitments for settlements to build systems for the collection and cleaning of waste water. The requirements of the Directive are included in the Slovenian legal order in the environmental law and in a number of sub-legislative rules relating to the quality of waste water from municipal cleaning facilities and facilities for individual production activities. A pilot project is under way to prepare a water management plan on the river Krka, financed by the European Community. The aim of the project is to develop a study which will provide an expert basis for further activities in the management of the river Krka. In the first phase, management will be prepared, a plan for the Krka basin, and in the second phase, technical documentation and investment documentation for cleaning plants and sewage infrastructure. The indicative value is estimated at EUR 1.1 million or EUR 260 million. As Minister, I ask you: What is already being done, or what should be on the river bank of the Krka River as regards the rehabilitation of wastewater? What are the deadlines for the situation to be regulated in order to satisfy European directives? I learned or told them that in New Town they did not even know if they would restore or update the existing city, or whether they would seek a new place to build it. A lot of studies have been done, but nothing has been done yet. This should have been done already this year, at least as far as the papers are concerned. What are the penalties for exceeding those deadlines? Who's in charge of the delay? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u110	You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Marjetka Uhanov! 23 municipalities are joined by this Krka Sanjava. 20 of them participate in this pilot project. Three, Ljubljana, Šmartno pri Lithija and Blocke are far from connected with Krka and have not decided to participate directly in this pilot project. If perhaps this time I go directly to the question from the end to the beginning, then to your question what are the sanctions for exceeding deadlines and who is responsible for the delay, the following would be answered. In view of the rapid dynamics in the construction of cleaning facilities, we also believe with the corresponding sewage systems in the Ministry of the Environment and Space that we will meet our obligations within the agreed deadlines and will therefore not have to pay us for our non-executed obligations in the area of waste water treatment directives. But there's some experience. The penalties paid by non-compliance Member States are not small. We have experience from one very large multimillion-dollar city, which is not the most comparable to Slovenia, this is Milan. We have accurate information, penalties for violating the provisions of the Directives are even more costly than meeting their requirements. But as we say, we'll do everything we can to make sure there's no punishment. Now, hands. Global first. On the basis of the global directive governing the separation of wastewater treatment, Slovenia has already provided waste water treatment in the two largest cities in Ljubljana and Maribor before the deadline. That's what we've arranged. The following deadline is 2010, this is the time limit for the completion of the appropriate cleaning facilities when cleaning plants must be built in cities with more than 15,000 population units. According to our assessment, we will also enforce this requirement. More than half of the cities with this population are already equipped with appropriate cleaning facilities. For the second half, these objects are just before the start of operation or at the end of the planning phase. We only have one white fox left. The only place that hasn't confirmed the location of the cleaning plant is Nova Gorica. I hope we can make it there. Regarding your question, Novo mesto is in a special position, which has a functioning cleaning device, but it is also a technical question whether to further modernise it at the same location or find a better solution. This is also addressed in the framework of the pilot project Krka, together with the municipality and the experts of the municipality Krka. Now more broadly to your specific question about this project Krka. You mentioned both stages. With regard to the second phase, it is important to say that technical investment and tender documentation will be produced, which will be an automatic application for co-financing from the Cohesion Fund. This means that we will finance this project with European money, including the preparation of documentation for a new financial perspective. We had some problems in the early stages. We started in November 2004, and the contract deadline is November 25th this year. There may have been some misunderstandings in the communication between individual institutions, perhaps even among some congregations. Now we've become staffed up, and I think the case has now been handled well. During these months and weeks, coordination with local communities is taking place, setting out the content of projects that can be expected to be co-financed by the Cohesion Fund. And just one more question. Where, due to the size of the population units, it will not be possible to fully finance through the Cohesion Fund, and there, I am sure, we will find a good solution that we will simultaneously co-finance these projects from some structural funds in the new financial perspective. One of these is the rural development fund. Also, I think the government has set out well on some models of division for a new financial perspective, regarding projects led by a colleague of Dr. Žagar, also through so-called regional incentives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u112	Would you like another answer, Mrs. Uhanova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u113	Yeah, I'd like to. Thank you very much, Minister, for an extensive response. However, I did not quite understand what it meant for the New City. So will the building permit for the cleaning plant be issued by 22 September of this year, or will it not? Until then a building permit should be issued by law, otherwise, as I am aware, the local community will then pay the penalty, which should be about 42 million per year. This is quite a lot of money for the congregation, so once again I ask: Will papers be issued for the New Town within the deadline? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u114	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u115	Thank you very much. No worries about New City. The deadline is until 31 May this year for our experts, together with colleagues from the New City and the New Town Municipalities, to decide how they will go into this project. However, in the agreed deadlines, the documentation you are asking about will be issued.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u116	Mr Mark Pavliha will ask the Minister of Health a question. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you, Comrade Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Let me move from the operating table to the dental chairs. I ask Mr Bručana: What will a new proposal for a law on the granting of dental concessions be made? Why is it that this proposal does not involve the profession, and I do not mean the Institute of Public Administration, but dentists and dentists? We have learned from the media that on the basis of a survey carried out by the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, more than 60% of dentists have decided to transform their legal status as a doctor in a public institution into a private concessionaire. Why? In this way, they feel that they can provide significantly better care for their patients because they face too many bureaucratic obstacles to leadership in their work, especially in the procurement of quality material. Let me give you an example, the poor situation in the work of the Ljubljana Health House has convinced more than half of all dentists that they have already decided on concessions, namely, that public dentistry with all the funds available is in fact falling apart, not to say rot, in front of our eyes. He also believes that we can eliminate this "disruptiveness" in the slogans with good legislation. Mr Minister, I would also like to ask you to explain some of your statements, which are quite contradictory. Let me say three: first, you recently claimed that you would transfer the award of concessions with a new law from the municipalities to the Ministry, and then you denied your declaration again. Let me draw attention to the fact that the award of concessions by the municipalities would constitute a great, great lack of transparency, particularly due to various municipal policies. Secondly, in one breath you claimed that one of the conditions for obtaining a concession was renting offices in the healthcare home, on the other hand you denied it. Thirdly, you advocated a doctor as a concession holder, and then later you changed your mind and said that dentistry would also have to be placed on the market, where the capital should reign and where everyone would get the concession, even if they were involved in auto mechanics or any other activity. So why do all your actions in this particular case, and this is the opinion of dentists, lead to the sale of the medical and dental profession? Or the opinion of the section referred to by the Health Chamber of Slovenia really means more than the current pre-election political interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u118	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u119	Thank you so much for asking. Mr President, thank you for your word. There are a lot of questions here that will be difficult to answer at this time, but I will try. There are also questions that have not been initially raised in writing, but I will still answer as regards the award of concessions. As you know, the primary level of awarding concessions is one way or another in the hands of municipalities. We have, of course, given some opportunity in the future or anticipated some future option to tender concessions also on a regional basis. As long as there are no regions, however, the state has shown that it would be a better option to tender these concessions only after a well-formed network, but that the municipalities would still remain those who would then, on the basis of this tender and on the basis of this network, grant concessions. As far as rental of premises is concerned, we have never extended one or the other option, it has always been possible to rent spaces in already present health care homes, with rent, or also outside these health homes, although this option is mostly better even where it is possible to bring health care closer to the population. However, as regards the granting of concessions mainly in the field of dental care, some other activities, including others, which can then hire the operator of this business, need to be aligned with European legislation that not only permits such an option, but even extends it. And we are somehow trying to avoid this at least at the moment with all possible measures, because we feel that this concession could be given by someone who is not a dentist. As regards the question of the origins of the new legal arrangements for medical concessions, this will be no different from that of dental work. There is no professional public excluded in the drafting of legislation where the issue is in the preparation phase and it has not yet been possible for any group to be invited directly. We have prepared thesis on which we will then go into discussion with all the affected, including dentists, including doctors, as well as with the entire public, who will be very interested in solving this problem. However, I would like to say some of the points in this new legislation programme on this occasion. Concession shall be granted either to a legal person or to a natural person in the proposed new legislation, such as proposals, for a specific health programme, for a specified period and on a specific site on the public health service network. We're always talking about the public health service network. The concession shall be awarded by a fixed-term concession contract. What's not now. This is the case for a period adopted by the Concident and the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia on the one hand and the concessionaire on the other. However, both the type and extent of health services and the payment for them must be the subject. The contract grants the concessionaire the right and assumes the obligation to carry out the public service in the field of health activities within the scope of the concession for the duration of the concession, which could be of different duration, from 8 to 50 years. These numbers have been designed so far and it is still not clear what variant they would be. But longer ones would be safe for those concessions where investment investment was needed to a greater extent than where it is not. For example, if someone invests in an institution, an investment, this concession will last for a long time. The duration of the concession will not determine the scope and value of the programme, as this could change. As regards the public health service network, this will be clearly defined so that concessions can be granted on this basis. The Network will determine which programmes and services are implemented on the basis of a concession and which in a public institution. The decision on which part of the network will be implemented by the concessional office, which will be adopted by the ministry and the government, and the law would provide for the participation of the chamber. There will always be a call for tender on the basis of a prepared public health network and on the basis of applications, municipalities will be able to grant concessions. As I have already said, the invitation to tender at national level is granted by the municipalities. On the adoption of the law, we will define the adoption of a specific concession act for a specific place in the public health service, but it is still quite a dilemma, such as the direct award of a concession for contracts over a certain value, the transfer process or the withdrawal of concessions and so on. This is a matter for once in such a phase that does not yet allow the inclusion of these stakeholders, as you said before, but this will be possible in a short time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavlich, would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u121	Yes, thank you very much. Mr. Minister, this promise that the profession will be included is encouraging, and I hope that you will also keep it. But let me stress here that it does not appear to me that there is a disputed public tender for free concessions, but rather a public invitation to tender for those employed, whose programme is already being implemented in the healthcare home. I wonder, who will have the advantage if you can say that at this stage? What might be the more precise criteria? I personally believe, after consulting dentists, that only a concession granted to a dentist is the one that allows independent and independent work, and in this way doctors are also personally responsible to their patients. However, if the concession holder is the owner of the capital, it will dictate a way of working, materials, techniques and wages, which is not good. Let me put it lazily, I do not want concession holders to become companies, individuals who would be interested and motivated only by profits. And here I wonder whether we are going against the ferrets where dentistry will be less accessible to people or not at all, but because of political games, dentists will be placed in some sort of wage position and will be owned by capital owners to the detriment of all of us. Once again, I count on your promise that doctors or dentists will be involved in the work and that their comments will be taken as fully as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u122	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Actually, we're just getting along. What you have just said before the end, I also answered the first part of the question in my reply. In fact, we are trying to grant concessions to contractors, but European legislation currently also allows the award of concessions to someone who is an investor in premises and then hires its programme operators. This allows European legislation to do so. Our aspirations and our desires are just the opposite of what you said. I also agree with you on that point where you said that in the situation in the Ljubljana health care home, as far as dentistry is concerned, the poor, although the leadership explains otherwise, but the whole thing is in the hands of the congregation. In fact, dentists at the primary level reported to the congregation because they are no longer able to work in private practice in such situations, but the congregation, as you know, is not responding to this at all. She took some time to respond and these approximately 70 applications for once-in-a-lifetime concessions lie unresolved. Here I agree with you that something needs to be done as quickly as possible and the problem that could be solved in such a way as to level the conditions for the award of concessions for the whole country. This will be provided for by law, at least in some form, because the current situation is such that we have tremendous differences between the congregation and the congregation regarding the granting of concessions, depending on the good will or bad will of the congregation. And such a way of granting concessions, of course, is not right, is not right. In Cyprus there is 0.57 of this indicator, that is to say 1,000 inhabitants, private people, the number of concessionaires at the primary level, in New Town 0.28, that is, once again less. This problem is large, from the congregation to the congregation, and I am well aware of it, and that is also what all of my activities are to balance the situation throughout the country, as well as to place doctors in those areas where it is at the primary level for a significant shortage. And this is possible with the award of concessions, not just with concessions. As far as dentists are concerned, we have not granted anything substantial new concessions for dentists in this period, little in my opinion, but in any way it depends on the congregations, we only confirm. Dentists currently have 50% of private people in Slovenia. At the general level, it is said, primary health care, 22,6, specialists 14.6 and gynecologists 125.2% of all gynecologists, all general physicians. So the dentists are on a substantial, substantially larger number than the others. So on this side, our support will continue to be as far as it is now, but it is not up to us, but it depends, as I have already mentioned, on the congregation itself. So, in general, I can assure you that in the preparation of the law, which will have to be adopted in good faith, all interested will be involved.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u124	Mr Miran Potrč will ask the Minister of State without a resource responsible for local self-government and regional development and the Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! I was approached by representatives of the Committee for the Conservation of the boiler room in the Retan village of Rogaška Slatina. According to their information, there are 430 dwellings and more than 1,000 residents who may happen to be unheated by October 1st of this year because they will not be able to meet the conditions for individual heating, as was the conclusion of the municipal council. The three-year period received after the first decision was not accompanied by all the necessary measures to ensure economic, technological and other conditions for achieving it. In addition, an additional 500 to 700,000 tolls of investment have now been added to the very difficult social situation in Rogaška Slatina due to the termination of the work of many people in the glassworks, as much as it would have been necessary without the municipality providing them with any additional financial assistance, possible credits and the like, a situation in which they do not see that they can fulfil their obligation and provide themselves with heating. For this reason, I ask you: Is it possible, in accordance with the law, to make decisions, reasonable and socially acceptable, that the competent municipal authorities and services in the function of exercising their duties and the rights to provide local public services in a particular case of organised heating of dwellings, which could result in the failure of over a thousand citizens and citizens, with the start of the heating season, to have guaranteed heating of their own apartments? Can the local community shake off its obligations through decisions that are not based on real and complete facts and the obligation to provide heating transfer to the owners of apartments without providing them with an energy source in a timely manner, to resolve technical issues of use of new resources, to assess financial conditions and options, to correctly anticipate the time of implementation and also to assess the consequences for environmental pollution? Since I have provided you with some documentation in writing, I assume that this problem is familiar to you, and I ask for your answer on how to direct the solution to this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u126	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Dr. Zhagar and I have agreed that I will begin, and then my colleague Dr. Zhagar will complete me. Perhaps we could start with this question, which was also referred to by Member Potrč, whether the change in the heating system is an autonomous right of the municipality or not. That's one of the questions, too. Here we also looked at the legal case law or practice of the Constitutional Court. It is a matter of when the local community has committed and prescribed an obligation to attach either to the natural gas distribution network or to the heating system, and some citizens have objected. We already have a decision by the Constitutional Court, which, interestingly, here confirmed the decision of the municipality. But no matter what, there's this problem and there's this question. As Minister of Environment and Space, I am aware of him and I also take him seriously. The current energy law states that the Minister responsible for energy, in agreement with the Minister responsible for the environment, may prescribe a way of heating in specific rounded areas of the local community, if this is considered for ecological or technological reasons and thus ensures a more efficient use of energy. The law in force in this segment is referring to such a solution. But there are some other questions. This is the most political question, I would say, but in a positive sense of the word: is it possible, in accordance with the law, to be reasonable and socially acceptable, as Mr Potrč says, that the competent municipal authorities and in the service and function of the exercise of the duty and the right to provide public services take a decision which would be that a certain number of citizens would not have guaranteed heating. I would answer about reasonableness and social acceptability. Knowing the excellent and good work of Mayor Mag. Kidrič, his very democratic direction, could point out here that in March 2004 the municipal council unanimously adopted a decision, they were all in favour of, from all political parties, that the manager of the boiler room after the expiry of the transitional period of three years - here the question is whether the length was correctly chosen but was a transitional period of three years - ceases to be heated, with all buildings heated from the boiler room being previously free of charge by the natural gas network and establishing a committee for the implementation of the switch to its own heating. It included representatives of the public company, concessionaires, municipalities, municipal communities and also owners of dwellings. The owners were also informed in writing of this decision and of this transitional three-year period. Something more could be said, if necessary, by Dr. Zhagar. With regard to the area I am covering, I would certainly like to say that, if necessary, we will engage at the Ministry and, in particular, once again, with information on a more difficult social and material situation in Rogaška Slatina itself, we will enable very favourable loans from the environmental fund, which are specifically intended for the installation of energy-efficient boilers or for other environmental protection measures. These are loans. Unfortunately, invitations to tender, where citizens could also apply for subsidies for these purposes, are not as strong and have been partially exploited this year. That's the financial aspect. Next up, a colleague of Dr. Zhagar's.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. Perhaps two more points, since Comrade Podobnik has already told me almost everything. At the principle level, this question essentially means the question of the performance of the tasks under the responsibility of the municipalities. Of course, the congregation or congregation authorities also take responsibility for their decisions. It is true, however, that the competent national authorities or ministries have their supervisory function that they can exercise. Now, in particular in this case, this issue should be asked precisely to the authorities of the municipality concerned. I must say that even in my practice I hardly know the case, and it is hard to imagine that the congregation could behave in a way that would then truly be a thousand citizens, in which case we can talk about more than 20% of the citizens of this municipality, it is almost possible to say that there is no heating in the coming period. I must say that we too have taken an additional interest and have received certain answers from the congregation. I can give you maybe two, three points from this answer. It has already been said that the conclusions on this issue were adopted unanimously on the municipal council, which is actually the competent authority, which means that all political options agreed. I believe that these conclusions were then properly presented. In addition, it was explained that it is an association in a way that concerns all citizens in this congregation, both those who have already received it and those who are to receive it at this stage, as it has already been said that it is a transitional period of three years. The guarantee that by 30.6.2006 the municipality's response would have been provided for the gas supply at all facilities, so of course this could not have been ensured and that by that time about half of the owners of the apartments heating the joint boiler had already saved [[...]] [[Dig up the mic.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u130	Thank you. Would you like an additional answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u131	Thank you very much. You must understand, Mr Minister, that given the question that I have received from citizens and citizens, it is my desire to help solve things in a way that will not have the worst consequences. I believe that you, too, cannot guarantee the accuracy of any information. Mine are different from the ones you have on certain issues. Indeed, the decision of the municipal council in 2004 was unanimous, but the claim of the affected was based on information which was not correct and did not imply any other solution at all than that proposed. Second. Mr. Minister, jurisdiction, if I understand you correctly, determining the heating method is the responsibility of the minister, not the authority, how to arrange it. And if that's the case, that's how I understood you, then there's never been a decision like that before. Mr Žagar, the source of the 30.6., not that all technical solutions are provided, the dynamics need to be regulated, the house needs to be put in place, it needs to be made available to each individual apartment, it is necessary to provide funding. If you guarantee that from 30.6. to 1 October, without own resources and an orderly funding system, this can be arranged, I do not believe it. Some of the answers are very flat-rate, and I expect nothing more than that there will be much more understanding and much less unilateral decisions than have been made so far, so that this problem can be resolved and I expect your help in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u132	Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u133	Thank you. One more word. We have indeed obtained this information from the congregation, of course, I see no reason not to believe them. I must say that, especially in this information in the final part, they point out that the issues have been addressed in a way that should enable affected members to make the easiest transition to their own heating. Once again, the information shows that half of these citizens have already settled this matter. However, I must say that, according to my information, the congregation council should consider this point once again, and I believe that they will, of course, continue to clean up these problems. However, as regards this method of rescue, a three-year transitional period has actually been provided, which has already begun. All citizens were provided with equal conditions for gas connection, of course also in the case of social issues and some similar issues, the municipality is likely to have other options. Of course, I absolutely agree that it is also our intention to get rid of these things for the benefit of the citizens, both the individual municipalities and the whole. However, the same conditions must be ensured. However, of course, it is also necessary to take into account the possibility of individual municipalities in providing these conditions. It would probably be very difficult at the national level to judge each individual congregation as to how it can handle these matters. Finally, it is also the autonomy of local self-government, and this issue can be particularly sensitive during the coming local elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u134	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u135	Thank you very much. As far as the legal jurisdiction is concerned, there will be no misunderstanding. According to the Environmental Protection Act, heat supply is not one of the mandatory public economic services of the municipality, but by energy law it is one of the choice. The congregation is not obliged to provide such care. So these double issues with the law. Perhaps we have not explained what the main problem is, why the municipal council decided unanimously in 2004 and proposed a different path because this system has gone into financial trouble. The boiler does not meet the modern requirements of these heating systems, for the purchase of a new boiler and for the redesign of the boiler, relatively high resources are needed and the company has gone into financial distress and covered this minus from drinking water and therefore the owner, who also gave the concession, has decided as he has decided. As it is said, I myself, as Minister, am prepared to cooperate within my powers to find the best solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u136	Thank you. Mr Master Tomaž Štebe will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honourable ministers, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I am asking a question about the adoption of the Spatial Planning Act. I wonder: When will the Ministry of Environment and Space decide how to change the law and how? At least amendments to the existing law that should have been or could have been adopted long ago are necessary. Since July 2004, spatial planning has been completely halted since the last spatial change under the old law. The deadlines for the adoption of spatial development strategies by 2007 are fast approaching. There is uncertainty about the Ministry's intention to be unclear and contradictory, and spatial development, as mentioned, has stalled. New big interventions into the law itself, some believe that even revolutionary ones, we are not looking forward to it. In particular, since there are also interventions to the old laws and changes to the rules of law. We expect practical planning for investors that allows flexibility and rapid procedures, as well as to prevent unsustainable, unbalanced and harmful development plans or interventions into space. We expect such jurisdiction of the municipalities to prevent speculation and unreasonable advantages and thus speculation about changes in destination or land sales. Although the new law is being prepared, it solves some things and makes others more complicated. Since last year, the draft law has been substantially corrected and is still full of confusion; it has even been removed from the government’s handling material. What is even more problematic is that the draft new law repeals all the sub-legislative rules that need to be prepared for a new one, which requires at least half a year. In this way, the path position will last for quite some time, in fact in 2007. We are four months before the elections, which is very bad for the development projects of the country and the communities. Why is the new law not yet ready and why does it not focus only on changing the most important issues, such as, for example, the Moratorium of Amendments, a comprehensive assessment of environmental impacts on the average and the like? It is necessary to command or stimulate regional and provincial, or medo - language, content that is difficult to judge in the context of individual small congregations. I also ask the question on behalf of the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia. I ask for concrete and encouraging answers, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u138	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Lord Mag. The size of the question sent. The new Law on Spatial Planning is written in such a way that the Slovenian municipalities must rejoice. It must be accepted as a good tool for responsible space management. The analysis, which was carried out, showed that some of the solutions in the current law were inconsistent, some were unclear, but above all, they were both substantive and organisationally questionable and complicated. The Spatial Planning Act is now in the stage of intersectoral coordination. It has not yet been formally included in the government's meeting, but in inter-departmental coordination. Also in the agreement on laws going into the Partnership for Development package, we were proposed a little later. That is why we will now do this coordination, but this will not have a significant impact on the reception itself. The law has no intention of bringing any revolutionary action, I assure you. It is prepared to relieve spatial planning of excessive substantive and procedural elements. But what is good in the current ZUREP 1 and we will preserve everything. In particular, we want to rationalise the content of spatial acts and shorten spatial planning procedures. These processes will include procedures for a comprehensive environmental impact assessment. And this will be the greatest savings for the municipalities, both in the substantive, time and also in the human resources and financial view. Where the law touches investors, our solutions will ensure greater investor safety. We also have the ambition to achieve, together with the Act on Active Land Policy, a higher quality of architecture in urban and rural environments. We will not abolish all regulations under the law, but will gradually replace them with new ones. As I have already announced publicly, we have two key regulations under the law ready. As soon as the law goes to the government, we will present, in parallel with the new law, the two key regulations that are important for the implementation of this law, especially for the transitional period. However, with regard to the necessity of regional spatial acts or spatial acts with regional or provincial content, I would like to say the position we have at the Ministry that the real regional spatial acts in the Spatial Planning Act cannot be prescribed until the region or the province is adequately formed in Slovenia. It's getting closer, and we're looking forward to it together. Nevertheless, the new Spatial Planning Act will cover all relevant regional development content that will be included in the new spatial act of the State. This is a state space plan. In order to implement the regional development programmes laid down by the law on the promotion of coherent regional development, this new law on spatial planning provides that municipalities will be able to draw up a regional spatial plan for spatial arrangements of local importance that extend to or affect the multi-community area. In the coming days, I think there will be a meeting with the association of Slovenian municipalities, where some of the last things will be reconsidered. I would like to say that when the law comes into government procedure, both associations of Slovenian municipalities will say that they also support the proposed solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u141	Mr. Minister, I would still ask you if you could provide some time frames. In particular, some municipalities are already implementing a spatial development strategy in accordance with the existing law. In view of these positive changes to the new law, as you say, which will also have some stimulating provincial or medo-cultural solutions, I would ask you to inform the municipalities of the actual timing of the adoption of this law, and also think of the need for new spatial content, strategy or whatever the name will be to have completed by the end of 2007. In addition, if a few months are delayed or for some other reasons coordinated by amendments to this Act, make sure that some of the inconsistencies of existing implementing acts with spatial acts are somehow legally adapted, as these more or less formal and substantive complications result in blockades and non-admission of new acts, as the content of existing spatial plans at least in the textual part is often inadequate. We have several such cases, and your employees probably know these problems to bridge them in some way, because strictly by law these changes are not allowed unless you change the spatial plan. However, the spatial plan can only be amended by a new spatial development strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u142	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u143	This issue is known to us, especially to the entire team at the Directorate of Space, in some municipalities this matter is even more problematic. We will, as already agreed, with both associations of Slovenian municipalities as soon as the law goes into government procedure or when it is adopted and goes to parliament, will inform the municipalities in very detail about the deadlines, the transitional regimes. Here again, I can say that everything that you have prepared in the existing procedures on the basis of the applicable law on professional grounds, foundations and other strategic content, this has not been thrown away from money or professional work, but we will find such solutions that a large majority of this can be incorporated into a new model that will be brought into force by the new law. I would also like to say that we are preparing some minor amendments to the law on the regulation of buildings, which will also be partly linked to the amendment of the law on spatial planning. I would like both laws to be adopted by the government until this year's holidays. This will be a reliable - spatial planning law, so that this autumn will mean the adoption of both laws in the National Assembly and we will go into their realization next year. I also have the ambition that the sub-laws would be adopted at the time of the adoption of the law by the government, so that the Members would see in advance what solutions I will propose as Minister by means of sub-legislative acts, so that this option would not happen, then in a sub-legislative act you will write down a solution that you may not have clearly presented as a legislator. This may also happen in some sense to abuse the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u144	Mr Ljubo Germič will ask the Minister for Education and Sport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, other ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In your invitation to attend the 2006/2007 school year, Mr Minister, you dropped the invitation to study places for students in art schools, the direction of music, in the context of parallel education. You've done this for Celje, Velenje, and Koper. This kind of behavior surprises me in two ways, given your statements that we can hear. The first is certainly that you always advocate in your statements to increase your choice of choice, and the second is that there is a need to work on a wider network of accessibility in education. One of the main orientations before the elections was that your party advocated, is decentralisation and the possibility of ensuring the accessibility of education for every young instigator. As you know, parallel education is the course of education that enables primary secondary education in different secondary schools, allowing for different education, not only completion of general or any other high school. In this way, it is possible for the music talent to complete one of the secondary school programmes at the same time to carry out education in the music field. Another issue that arises in this regard is how do you ensure that young people from different areas in Slovenia are involved in such programmes, because in this way you will in fact cut off certain regions from the possibility of joining such programmes if we only take Celjska, Velenjska and Koroška, which will now be separated from the possibility of joining the programme in the Maribor or Ljubljana parallel education programme. You also have a lot of questions from your parents, Mr Minister, how education will be provided to those students who would like to be educated in this way, with a different education at the starting point, namely primary education, and a parallel music education. In doing so, Mr. Minister, I am interested in how you have responded to your parents and what strategic studies are those that have dictated your decisions that, while you are maintaining both programmes in Maribor and Ljubljana, you recognise the quality of these programmes, of course you are terminating these programmes in three different areas in Slovenia: Celje, Velenj and Koper. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u146	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honor! Thank you for the question I've been answering for the third time now, and it's no big deal. We have already answered Mr Kontić, Mr Koren, the same question. The fact is that there were double programmes for music education in these cities and that the problem is that there is too little entry in both directions - regular and parallel. And it's simply a matter of not being able to maintain in the same places of the two programmes where the entry is extremely low. Let me just read some information. As you know, it's a standard 32 student, but it's still a long way from being able to do that. In the first year of the current direction in Celje for the parallel programme is entered only 9, with 14 pupils in the regular programme. In Velenje, there are 11 students in the first year of the year, in the regular programme 13. In Cyprus, even 8, in regular 10. Only Maribor partially and Ljubljana also comply with the current regulations, which are given. I'm going to try to show you very simple and vividly. In addition to the regular programmes of artistic high school, the music course, we have also developed, for reasons unknown to me, parallel programs of music education, such as instruments, for students attending the second high school. 90% of these students are high school students who go to general high school, which means that we have somehow closed down the possibility of developing regular programs, even though we have opened regular high school programs. In addition, we artificially maintained another parallel programme, which, among other things, has this weakness that does not allow, its public charter does not allow entry into the university programme later. From a point of view of rationality - maintenance of a network, a totally unreasonable system of parallel education in environments where we have barely maintained or maintained a regular programme. Indeed, we have no choice but to close the emergency program in these three programs, where there are no children, and thus to enable a slightly better situation in artistic high schools. I am not saying that the matter would not be a good one, of course, if the state had unlimited resources and might also allow this despite the fact that the entry is so small. But that's just not how it works. In these three cities due to extremely low enrolment and interest we cannot maintain a double programme of music education. That's the whole truth. Therefore, not only do they fail to achieve some legal norms, but in terms of rationality, it is completely pointless and irrational to maintain such parallel programmes. It is not particularly necessary to stress that the service of the State is paid double for these students and that the price of the student in the parallel programme is three times higher than that of the general school. So he's in general high school and in this parallel program, and we just can't afford that.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u148	Here you go, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u149	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Of course, I don't have enough time to comment on all the numbers you're giving here. I would like to define up to one of the content that you have already discussed today on the Member's question. You have mentioned rationality many times and have mentioned that your parents are forcing you to make decisions in certain areas, in certain programmes, to engage in diversity, competitiveness and wider supply. Here you have a concrete example where your parents prove to you the need to maintain such programs that they want to implement for their children also because of their professional perspective. You say that additional programmes need to be developed in vocational and vocational education. You are talking about a private offer that will also be financed by public funds. This then does not follow what you just said when you cut off certain programs in some parts of Slovenia, but at the same time you say that you lack an additional supply, additional competitiveness in certain segments and that the private sector will do so. Mr Minister, it is very difficult to understand such your actions and your actions, unless you already know that tomorrow someone will appear as a provider who will run the same programs, but of course he will be able to occupy the empty space that you are now creating in this way. I think that the solution you have proposed is not in favour of children living in different parts of Slovenia, in order to reduce their access to equivalent education compared to those living in centres, and at the same time you do not justify what you are saying, that you are rational in abolishing certain programmes, and in public, even yesterday on television, you have said publicly that you want to have an additional offer in professional and professional areas, and I am afraid that such a measure is going in that direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u150	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u151	I'm in a real dilemma right now. I don't know if you understand if you have any other reason to speak like this. In these three cities, the country offers a high school course, a musical direction and allows children to integrate and develop their musical talents further. Besides, we have such a low entry, low numbers, we don't reach the standards. In addition, you ask me to develop another parallel programme that further impoverishes and threatens the regular programme of music education. No doors are closed to these students. They have the opportunity to develop musical talents, they have the opportunity to log into regular programs, we don't disable them in anything, and we don't close the doors, really. The only thing I don't understand is why in the past, in these three places, very interestingly, they supported such opportunities. I think that even some other interests were behind us, as was the need and desire of students and parents for this type of music education and training. Once again, the numbers, if we had a really big rush where we couldn't put these students in the regular program, would somehow understand the need for a parallel program. However, since this is not necessary because there are no students, it is simply not possible for the state to establish two parallel education systems.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u152	Mr Franz Kangler will ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u153	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We've already talked about operating tables today. When asked by the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister replied that this was a shared responsibility. From his words, I saw that he was also thinking of the responsibility of a respected minister. It is abnormal for a Member who benefits from the option under the Rules of Procedure to ask the Minister several times how and how tables are purchased and why such or other differences occur. I also asked the question in writing. The minister gave me a flat-rate response, and I was not satisfied with the answer. On the contrary, the minister claimed that everything was in order and was glad that I was concerned as a Member, how and how tax money was used. However, it is also known that the audit committee has adopted a number of conclusions. In particular, the Minister of Health would like to ask what the President of the State has included directly in this story of the operating tables. Dr. Drnovšek, as president of the country, was so brave that he spoke to the Slovenian public in writing. According to his letter, we can conclude that something about buying operating tables is very badly wrong and that the Ministry did not comply with all public procurement rules as it should be. There's obviously something fishy about the whole medical supply story. Is there really a circle of people who take advantage of the business of purchasing medical equipment? This is also indicated by Dr. Brecelj in his public letter. Do some vultures really serve at the expense of patients and doctors? And if the calls don't produce the right results, let them repeat that the real ones will win. And that's why there are delays and unsustainable operating conditions, as Dr. Brecelj warns. These questions will need to be answered and I will call on law enforcement authorities to investigate the matter. When I listened to Mr. Shumak, I don't think we should have too much work to do. I'll give them his paperwork tomorrow. I ask you, Mr. Secretary, given that the President of the State himself has responded to the procurement of the operating tables, what measures have you taken in accordance with all the regulations you have at your disposal, and what will you do to ensure that those who need them reach these tables as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u154	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u155	Thank you very much for the question, Mr Kangler. Mr President! Of course, we talked about these operating tables a few months ago and we wrote, in fact we sent some answers to you. Some of you have been pleased, some of you have not, but in the process I have tried to make things as clear as possible. The problems or problems related to the procurement of operating tables occurring in the current procurement process are related to the situation in the five hospitals for which the contract is made, and these problems have in fact been escalating recently, as has been the case of the Oncology Institute. In view of the grounds for refusal, the contracting authority considered all the circumstances, examined and also found that the reasons for the request to terminate the procedure were thus given. Therefore, on 9.5. the State Audit Commission sent a reasoned proposal to abolish the termination of the procedure and the possibility of its continuation to examine it and take an appropriate action, and 16.5 further a proposal for a priority, a case-by-case resolution of the audit request. We have sent the State Audit Commission with the desire to make a substantive decision on the situation as soon as possible. The State Audit Commission, by decision of 17.5. received on 19.5., rejected the request for the annulment of the procedure and fixed in a request that the applicant be satisfied and annulled the notice of choice issued by the contracting authority. In the audit procedure, the State Audit Commission also found that all tenders were incorrect and therefore instructed the contracting authority to complete the procedure in question. The Ministry of Health followed the decision of the State Audit Commission and on the same day, 19.5.2006, took a decision on the conclusion of the procedure and notified all tenderers thereof. In accordance with the Public Procurement Act, the Ministry is in a position to award a contract on the basis of a completely new tender or to issue a new decision in accordance with the law, by which the procurement procedure will continue to be negotiated. In view of the cost-effectiveness of the procedure and other reasons for the continuation of the negotiation procedure, the expert services of the Ministry will consider continuing the negotiation procedure in one of the legally prescribed ways, i.e. by prior publication or without prior publication. If the expert services find that the conditions laid down for the continuation of the negotiated procedure without prior publication are clearly met, the Ministry will certainly benefit from these options, since in the present case the Ministry considers that the award of the contract could be completed as quickly as possible for the benefit of patients. Here I would also like to highlight some things concerning the mere decision of the State Audit Commission, which it is not possible, as we know, to challenge, but it is possible to summarise some of the facts that we will take into account or have to take into account in further decisions. The State Audit Commission found that the offer made by the applicant for the audit was incorrect and therefore could not be found to be the most favourable. At the same time, the State Audit Commission also found that the tender of the selected tenderer Sanolabor or of all tenders received was incorrect and the conditions for selection in this procedure were not met. In our view or in the opinion of the Commission on the appropriateness of the offer, it has taken into account the findings that the form does not show the name of the guarantor of the guarantee or, in other words, to whom this bank guarantee has been issued. The Commission also noted in its explanation that, due to the absence of a record showing that the bank guarantee was issued, the actual possibility of fulfilment or payment was questionable. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the contracting authority has taken account of that bank guarantee in the procurement process and has also checked with the issuing bank in the course of the audit, namely Raiffeisen Krekova Bank. On 22 March 2006, the latter submitted a written statement confirming that the bank had issued a guarantee to the Sanolabor guarantor for the seriousness of the tender of 6 million tolls for the supply and assembly of 18 pieces of operating tables. At the same time, the Bank stated that the bank guarantee was a binding document, and the bank's statement meant that the contracting authority could actually cash that guarantee. So much for answering that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u156	Please ask for an additional reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u157	Dear Minister, I am not satisfied with your answer. In the Clinical Center, over 30 billion tolls per year for purchases, in one way or another, are passed by public tenders. You still believe those people at the Ministry who keep you in the claws that Drnovšek, the president of the country, calls "or some vultures do serve at the expense of patients and doctors". You're a doctor yourself, Mr. Secretary-General. And the biggest shame is that someone is hiding behind patients and wants to take advantage of the 200 million in such a public order. The Honourable Minister, with all seriousness and responsibility, seems to you to be wise when a member of the National Assembly asks in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the principles, in accordance with the Constitution, to receive within a few days a threatening letter "Listen, you hero, what are you asking about this!" It seems normal for you to take off the same Member's e-mail, publish it in one of the newspapers, to publish the same e-mail to one of the previous ministers, and finally to break into the business premises of Mr Šumak, two computers are handed over to him, just the two computers you are recording, as far as public procurement is concerned. And even a book of visits to the Ministry of Health, where it was written that one of the selected companies was visiting you. All of this disappears, threatens, steals, and for you personally, it's normal. Is that why I should expect because today I am asking you whether something will happen to me today or tomorrow on the highway between Maribor and Ljubljana, have we come this far, or do you think I'm making it up? You don't care. I don't care. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This indicates that my question is on the table and that I do not get a thorough answer. [[...]] And you still believe those who surround you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u158	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u159	I should answer the honourable Member. What you're saying right now never seemed normal to me. Not even in terms of threats, but about these things, thank God, I don't know anything, I have nothing to do with these things. This is a matter in which I would agree with you, this is not normal. At the same time, however, I must tell you that the Ministry of Health, in the procedure carried out at the 18-table stage of the contract, has taken into account the legislation currently in force and has also taken into account the tendering conditions under which this invitation to tender has also begun. In the tendering conditions, it was clearly stated which conditions are necessary for the tenderer to participate in the tender itself. All those who met this condition were, in our view, then known as appropriate by the Commission. In order to spend the taxpayer's money here, I cannot agree with you, because in this procedure, as the Commission has determined, the bidder, who has been chosen under the conditions given in the tender itself, has all been sufficient and was the cheapest. However, this can also be said here, but we have taken into account the opinion of the profession, not only the experts of doctors, but the opinion of lawyers, economists, the opinion of a member of the anti-corruption commission, who was always present in the selection itself, and so we have come to this conclusion in a way that seemed most appropriate and fair to us. I must say that I am pleased today, above all, with the fact that I can again explain some of the things that have happened here, and I am very grateful to you for this question. We will continue to look at the fact that these tables, which are now such a major subject of debate and conflict in Slovenia, will not only be obtained for the Oncology Institute as soon as possible, but will also be obtained for the other four hospitals, which are also difficult to wait for these operating tables and will be necessary for patients. I would like to point out once again when concluding that no one complained about the tendering conditions and that the tendering conditions were dealt with in the same way for all and there were no complaints under the tendering conditions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u160	Mr Borut Saiovic will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. You've been informed that the Minister is well-reservedly present, so I'm asking if you'd like to ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Respectable few colleagues present. My question relates to the implementation of the Wildlife and Hunting Act, which has already been presented on a similar subject in this Parliament at least once or twice, but the story has a much broader framework, because this failure to enforce the law in force by the government, once we adopt the law, but when we do not prepare the law, is a matter of concern to me. The government holds back, and this country, increasingly rights, and then as duties, does not carry them out to the end, and that worries me also in the light of some of the laws that we are still enacting. This week will also be the turn of the freshwater fishing law, where we also believe that the current ruling government is trying to cut off too much of the cake and power. My question regarding hunting is: Why does the government not implement the Wildlife and Hunting Act or why does the government not implement the call for tender and, on its basis, grant concessions for the sustainable management of game in hunting grounds and appoint a hunting operator? Why has the government failed to comply with the deadline set out in Article 81(3) of the Wildlife and Hunting Act and, no later than three months after the establishment of hunting sites, to grant a sustainable game management concession and designate operators? When does the government intend to fulfil its legal obligations under the Wildlife and Hunting Act and thus eliminate the constitutionally unsustainable situation when it does not respect and implement the legislation in force? At the meeting of the National Assembly on 21.11.2005, the Minister promised that the missing three sub-legislative acts governing this area would be ready to be adopted by the end of 2005 at the latest. Today it has been going on in 2006 by the end of the fifth month and, despite promises, nothing has happened in this area. I was warned by two hunting families, the Vitomarci hunting family and the Polenšek-Dornov hunting family. The affected hunting families are candidates for the operators of newly created hunting grounds following a decree on fishing in the Republic of Slovenia and their borders, namely the Vitomarci hunting grounds - no. 1502 and Polenšek-Dornova - no. 1512. In these fisheries, normal management is impossible, and so is the state. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the loss of revenue from concessions, as well as the recovery and management of damage after the game, could be different from the one currently adopted at the time of the adoption of these acts. [[..]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u162	Thank you very much. You will receive an answer from the Minister at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Mr Ivan Yelen will ask the Minister of Health a question. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u163	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Members of Parliament, Minister of Respect! My parliamentary question concerns the issue of maintenance and repair of hearing aids in the Republic of Slovenia. The mandatory health insurance rules do not specify which services, interventions to the hearing apparatus and other tasks are included in the free maintenance of the hearing apparatus. It happens that users pay for the maintenance of hearing aids, and those rare individuals who are aware of the right to maintain a hearing aid at the burden of suppliers, and because of the irreconcilability of what this right entails, they cannot enforce it, since the supplier is the one who, in each individual case, determines what it is or does not belong to the regular maintenance of the hearing apparatus. Similar inadequacy also applies to repairs of hearing aids after the expiry of the warranty period. Users of hearing aids are not informed that they have the right to cover up to 50% of the costs of repairs and replacements of extended parts, thus paying for services and parts in their entirety. The wish of affected deaf citizens, representing 7% - 9% of the population, is to issue short and clear instructions that would be in accordance with the rules of the Health Insurance Office or the solution of the problem in a clear way to know what rights they have in this area or to what extent they are liable to cover the costs set out in that title. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance is aware of the problem, but it does not confirm or deny the problems arising from the inadequacy of its own regulation. As far as I am aware, members of the Board of Deaf Slovenia have been working for a long time to resolve the problem, but at the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia they are delaying or relying on various excuses, which are intended to preserve the existing state which is in favour of the Institute of Health Insurance, which in this way creates a profit for themselves. Therefore, I ask you, Mr Minister, whether there is any possibility of mediating or triggering solutions to that problem, as the obediently affected population is causing great costs and involuntaryness. I am sure that your decision and answer will help clarify this problem, as users count on a comprehensive and acceptable answer. Thank you very much for your explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u164	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u165	Mr Member, thank you very much for the question. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The mandatory health insurance rules do not really define which services, interventions to hearing aids and other repairs are included in the free maintenance of apparatus. This is provided by the Department of Health Insurance in accordance with Article 66 of the mandatory health insurance rules, namely the right to service, repair and so on, and in different contracts with different suppliers of hearing aids. The maintenance of hearing aids shall be ensured in the burden of compulsory health insurance under contracts in full and the scope of control checks, re-examinations, readjustments and adjustments, replacement of minor parts listed in this Annex 1 and which is a permanent annex to individual contracts due to different suppliers and different appliances and is therefore adapted to the individual supplier and cannot be listed here. It also contains six cleaning during the life of the apparatus, six years. Repairs shall include the work of the repair and replacement service provider. Therefore, what is involved in maintenance and repair is specified in contracts with suppliers of apparatus. However, the replacement of major parts and larger repairs are covered by up to 50% of the purchase price of a standard apparatus of 6 years of age. If the apparatus is superstandard, the insured person must bear the costs which exceed those mentioned. In the case of a superstandard apparatus which has not been purchased at the cost of compulsory health insurance, the service is paid by the insurer himself. All these apparatus are accompanied by a guarantee sheet showing the manufacturer's obligations. In this way, I think that the system of maintenance and replacements for hearing aids is provided in most cases. We also assess, as has already been agreed, that the social security agency’s websites should also publish these conditions, as well as instructions for handling, maintenance of apparatus. Sometimes there are problems because of the lack of clarity in communication itself. However, I took your initiative today very seriously and will try it with a health insurance company in the future, which has not been possible to date, to assess significantly more precisely and to define the seriousness of the problem, which I believe is actually very important if it comes to the parliamentary bench. However, in our work with the insurance company so far, this has been arranged on the basis of this cooperation and in the way I have said here. But I'll check things out in the future and try to solve the problem as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Kristijan Janc will ask the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Transport a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues who still insist on this hour. As you know, Posavje suffered from a natural disaster on 21 August 2005, storms with heavy rain, the consequences of which have proved to be a devastating activity of the storms and the emergence of intense creeping. The recorded damage to public infrastructure facilities is huge and Posavina municipalities, together with the local, firefighters and operators of public economic services, have immediately approached the consequences of the storm and normalisation of the situation. With the extraordinary engagement of many individuals and businesses and with the support of the Republic of Slovenia and the general public, and in particular many donors, whom I sincerely thank on this occasion, the situation has been able to at least partially normalise in an extremely short time and to provide all citizens and businesses with conditions for approximately normal life and work. Nine months after the accident, however, we regret to note that nothing has changed on the severely affected sections of the state roads in the municipality of Sevnica and beyond. In addition, there is a severe winter behind us, which has added further damage to the infrastructure already so damaged. Sections of some state roads, especially regional roads, which have been severely damaged by the criminals, are partly transportable, although they are equipped with a warning traffic signal, but we felt that, given the scale and intensity of the August disaster and the effects of the winter we faced at the local level, we should also do something on the state road network. The Ministry of Transport prepared and submitted a documented review of the state of the road network in April this year, which shows that 220 million Slovenian tolars are needed to remedy the damage caused by the August storm. We believe that this assessment is realistic and that only in the municipality of Sevnica there is a billion 300 recorded damage to local infrastructure. We believe that these 220 million could also be found somewhere in the Slovenian government. I ask the two responsible ministers for this area: When will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia provide additional funds to the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for roads to maintain state roads in the Posavje area and elsewhere in Slovenia after these extraordinary natural disasters that have hit us? I am also interested in the envisaged indicative dynamics of both the funds provided and in the resolution of the consequences of the August storm in Posavje on national regional roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u168	Thank you. You have the floor, Minister. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u169	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, the issue of the state of the network of main and regional roads was presented in detail by the Ministry of Transport in a specially prepared material transmitted to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministers for Finance and the Environment and Space, the heads of coalition groups and the Chairman of the Committee of the National Transport Council. The issue was addressed by the Committee of the National Transport Board and decided that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should examine the possibilities for the intervention of the necessary funds for the most urgent repair of damage on state roads after this year's severe winter of 3 billion 77 million tolars, for the payment of unforeseen or additional costs in the implementation of the winter service of 2 billion 56 million tolars and for the recovery of the effects of storms on state roads in Posavje in 2005 of 219 million tolars. The proposal for the means of providing the necessary resources was prepared by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport and presented to the members of the coalition parties at the meeting on 9 May 2006. The ministries proposed that the funds be provided in the following way: for the first time, with a two- to three-month delay in the beginnings or closures of parts of this year's new investment projects, by releasing a 4 billion-dollar share of this year's funds and by transferring payments for works carried out in 2007 in the same amount as the 2007 budget balance; for the second time, from resources provided by the Ministry of Finance at the level of 1.7 billion tolars on the basis of the necessary redeployments of the Republic of Slovenia's Government. We anticipate that, on the basis of the changed financing dynamics of this year's investment projects and the redeployments already made by the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry of Finance, we will provide these funds as soon as possible, so that it is possible to start the remedial works on the network of the most damaged main and regional roads in Slovenia, including roads in Posav. The emergency remedial work will be carried out on the basis of the injury profiles already produced. In the light of the procedures to be carried out under the Public Procurement Act, it is envisaged that this year's work will be completed. As has already been said, we will be able to start some of the works that can be carried out as a factor immediately after the adoption of the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the provision of the necessary funds by reallocation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I have nothing to add to what my colleague, Mr Bozič, has already said. Finally, this is a joint proposal. The Ministry of Finance is currently preparing appropriate documentation to present to the government this reallocation of funds within the approved budget. But it's a big deal, 1.7 billion tolars at this point require a lot of attention, but we are confident that we will be able to do it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u171	And as the last question for the Minister of Health will be put by Mr Michael Prevc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u172	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, respectable colleagues! I ask the Minister of Health about the Rakitna Youth Climate Health Centre. This health resort is considered the best air-conditioning treatment in our country. The number of children who are being treated for respiratory problems in this hospital is decreasing from year to year, although in Slovenia only 41,585 children are suffering from asthma. In 2005, only 364 children were treated in the clinic and 654 children were treated in the year before. The number of care days agreed between the health centre and the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute would allow the treatment of 955 children for three weeks. In 2005, only 24% of the number of day-care contracts were implemented and this year's three-month results show that only 10% of the day-care contracts will be delivered. Pre-school and school dispensaries advocate emergency treatment for respiratory diseases by sharing the climate as a natural remedy, which also shows a survey carried out between doctors and long-term improvement in the health status of children after medical leave. Parents of children also confirm the long-term improvement in the post-medical condition in the treatment facility, as shown by the surveys carried out. Finally, European asthma experts in children believe that acute asthma attack is the most common cause of hospitalization in children of all ages, so the need to relieve the burden of asthma in children has never been greater. Because of the current method of referral of children to medical treatment in the health care facility through the appointed physicians of the Institute of Health Care, it is difficult for children and adolescents in need of such treatment to have access to treatment. Appointed physicians of the Health Insurance Office are working on a positive solution to fewer proposals for medical treatment. As a result, personal doctors of children and adolescents write fewer and fewer proposals for medical treatment as they prejudge the decision of the appointed doctor of the Health Insurance Institute. Mr. Secretary, on this matter, I ask you the following questions. What is the reason for less and less referral to successful climate treatment in Rakitna, what is it or will the Ministry of Health do to solve the problem of Rakitna Youth Climate Treatment?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u173	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Member, for the question. Thank you for your word. I've been dealing with a problem at the Rackitna Medical Center for quite some time now. I met for the first time when I was a minister, six years ago, and we had already begun to solve this problem, and unfortunately at that time, the time was far too short to be able to solve it. Later in the matter, nothing has changed, in four years, and I must say, even this year and for a while, which I am now at the Ministry. This health problem has been related to demographic and epidemiological changes in this age group recently. We want to maintain this spa in every way, so I have met several times with representatives of the health resort, with the director, including the head of the Brezovica municipality, where this resort is now, after the municipality of Ljubljana handed over to the newly formed Brezovica municipality years ago, belongs. During this period, the Municipality of Brezovica has regulated certain legal parties and the professional problems and also funding problems remain and are still ahead of us. First of all, it should be stressed that the extended professional college on paediatrics has for a number of years been pointing out the need to expand the programme, which must become broader and not include respiratory pathologies. I have one opinion from an extended study in paediatric studies, which even claims that such treatment is less important than some other types of asthma treatment. The health centre has 148 beds, is open all year long and is too large only for the pathology of asthma, even if you send all the children you say you need this treatment. Once again, it is important to take into account the significant shifts in the treatment of asthma itself and, last but not least, the practically halved number of children. Once again, I stress that this is an expert assessment of the Republic's Faculty of Paediatrics, irrespective of the statements made by individual pediatricians of the primary level, which are not in line with the opinion of the enlarged College of Experts. I must say that there were no reactions by the management of the health centre in which part of the asthmatic population that is being treated would be replaced by another Kazoistic, which makes it very difficult to solve the problem of Rakitna. The last serious warning given to the management of the health centre was given on our part and by the Republic College of Experts on 30.11.2005, when last year's financial structure covered the sum of 94 million tolars and thus maintained only the staff employed. We took this issue seriously at the Ministry all the time, convened a meeting with the municipality of Brezovica, and at the meeting came to the following conclusions with the management of the health centre at the same time. The establishment cannot be modified, the establishment is in any case a municipality and, in this case, the municipality of Brezovica, where it belongs. Asthma alone cannot be resolved by Rakitna. However, the Ministry of Health advocates that the health centres be maintained in any way in cooperation with the Republic-wide Faculty of Paediatrics, with the corresponding professional extension of the programmes. However, the Ministry of Health has once again asked for an extended expert college on paediatrics to obtain the following conclusions or answers. The need for medical treatment for children and young people is substantively and in the form of today different from the needs of the past. An extended faculty of expertise for paediatrics believes that our children still need medical facilities and that the indications and needs for the content of treatment programmes have changed. The needs for climate treatment alone are decreasing and the need for rehabilitation programmes is increasing, and the extended faculty of expertise for paediatrics is proposing once again a reorientation of the content and delivery of medical treatment, the development of new rehabilitation programmes. Medicines should take into account the guidelines recommended by professional organisations or institutions and the extended technical college for paediatric care in the preparation and production of healthcare programmes. In doing so, I must say that I owe that part of your question the answer, where you speak of a reduction in the number of postings from the insurance company. I must say that I have already taken action in this regard and have also spoken to the insurance company. I hope that we will also achieve, on the basis of these arrangements, the completion of the referrals to the Rakitna Medical Centre in the form and extent envisaged.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-22-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I'm breaking this agenda. I am adjourning the 17th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night.
