ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the continuation of the 18th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I was informed that they were detained and that today's meetings could not be attended by the following Member and Members: Bogdan Barovic, Roberto Battelli, Mag. Branko Grims, Aurelio Yuri, Vasja Klavora from 17:00 on, Mojca Kucler Dolinar, Rudolf Mogue from 14:00 to 18:00, Geze Juban from 14:00 to 18:00. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - Third Defence Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, please. Mr State Secretary Zvonko Zinrajh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, colleagues. On the proposal of the Law on Offences against Public Order and Peace, a number of amendments, proposals to amend individual articles, were tabled in committee proceedings and a meeting of the National Assembly. Nevertheless, the basic concept of the law remained unchanged and individual amendments contributed to a better and more precise definition of the signs of the offence. This has also somehow achieved the basic purpose of the proposal for a law to clearly and definitively define unacceptable social behaviour and to impose appropriate sanctions on them. Allow me to speak again about the fundamental principles and objectives and the main solutions of the bill, which are the following: the effective provision of public order and peace with a view to realizing the constitutional right of an individual to security and dignity, as already provided for in Article 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, to ensure greater emphasis on the security of individuals in the private space, since it has so far been protected only by the provision of security threats in the private space. Next. Establish the local community's responsibilities in ensuring security by empowering municipal officials to act in concrete and tax-related cases. Next. Ensure against discrimination by establishing a specific provision in a law where higher penalties are provided for if the offence is committed for reasons of discrimination. Finally, extending the provisions on offences by elements of violence to a number of offences, depending on their weight, to date covered such offences in essentially one article. As new offences, the bill provides for camping, begging by harassment, staying in a public place, using dangerous objects, using animals, vandalism, inciting intolerance, false reporting of a crime, offering sexual services by imposing and excluding energy resources. In the second reading, as you recall, amendments were adopted regarding the protection of minors in catering establishments and events, which have been quite widely discussed in this meeting. However, amendments to Article 21 of this Act have been tabled for third reading. The proposed law, the real government, supports the amendment of the Social Democrats' parliamentary group, with the exception of the part relating to the name of Article 21, and the amendments of SDS, NSI and SLS' parliamentary groups relating to the change in the name of the article, the possibility of determining the age of the person entering the bar and removing the penalty of a 30-day operating ban, because it is somehow contrary to the law on offences and could not even be implemented. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Boštjan Zagorac has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Your Honors are here! The third treatment of the law, I think what was said in this law was huge if you remember the second treatment took a very long time. Some strong words were also said. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the law has been supplemented by a number of provisions approved by this National Assembly, so we will not oppose it in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. If we are to understand this law or the bill, it would be good for us to know the old man. Then we'd know what support is and what it's not. In the DeSUS parliamentary group, we favoured the proposal proposed by the government as the first proposal, because we assessed that it was less restrictive than the existing law because we estimate that it reduces penalties to open up the space of freedom, to try to be clear, comprehensive, to be defined for everything as well. So it has quite a few dimensions that we view as positive. If we mention just a few of these things, greater protection against violence in related relationships, and an anti-discrimination article, something else that is good, could be found. However, there are also some proposals in this law that we find unacceptable, which we think are weak and even absurd. More and more as the law was trying to make, let's say, under the terms, of course, repairs, it was getting worse, especially with that strange amendment, for us a strange amendment concerning the "hora legalis" which some do not recognize as "hora legalis" at all, and also by the procedure of how this amendment was adopted at the end of the home body. These weaknesses, which are covered by the law, are not only weaknesses related to "hora legalis", but also some of the weaknesses that further discriminate or mark those who are begging, who are additionally burdening beggars, who may be insufferable beggars, while allowing for the insensitivity of people, for example, from religious promoters on the road or some advertising agents. We judge that if intrusiveness on the road is prohibited, it should be prohibited for all, not just beggars. It is also unacceptable for us that in many ways the law is arbitral, that the person who committed the offence cannot at all know whether he committed the offence or not, until someone else tells him whether it bothers him or not, and so someone else determines the arbitral act today, not tomorrow that it was a violation. We've already talked about some absurd cases, and now I wouldn't repeat them. If there's a need, we'll do it in the debate. There is an absurdity in this law for us, and therefore the law has become a problem for us, and if our amendment is not adopted, we do not intend to support it. Not only do we not intend to support him, we will vote against him. The DeSUS Group has constantly sought to draw attention to weaknesses, to the fact that some articles are not actually feasible, to the point that they are absurd, to the fact that those who have failed to raise their children are behind them are now imposing this task on the State. I would not like to quote a letter that we have accepted from one of the Members who is co-proposing this "hora legalis" of the amendment. Therefore, not because I would not want to hurt him, because this letter shows itself from some ideological and other sources, in fact, some propose support for the amendment, which would prevent young people from being absent from their parents at various public events or in public places, but may also be with them where they drink and where other things happen in the night locals if parents are present. These same children, who are not allowed to spend one minute in the evening after midnight silvestrove, may have sexual intercourse minutes before midnight. So these absurds are those who support this law and those who support the amendment do not seem to be aware at all. And it is our duty for once simply to point out that the law is absurd, that in many parts it is impossible to carry out, that it has actually come after our assessment of the plan from the frustrations of individual colleagues and colleagues in Parliament. We cannot vote in favour of such a law unless our amendment is adopted, because the whole time we talked about the law and the amendment, we feel that we have spoken, at least in the DeSUS Group of Members, the sober heads and the headscarf has not yet gone mad.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u7	Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek will present the position of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u8	Dear Vice President! Dear government officials! A respected choir! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposal for a law on the protection of peace and order, which will replace the current law on offences against public order and peace. The proposed law has received a lot of attention in the procedures so far, both in the media, in an extensive debate in the National Assembly, in the home working body and in the parliamentary groups, on the basis of which the drafter received important feedback and proposals for additions and improvements to individual provisions of the proposed law. A number of amendments have been tabled and considered, some of which have also been adopted. In our Group of Members, we are aware that this law is one of those laws whose provisions cannot be drafted in such a way that everyone agrees with them, but in order to ensure public order and peace, we need it. It is undeniable that the law also interferes with sensitive areas of human rights and fundamental freedoms, but it is necessary to identify unacceptable social practices in public and private areas and to lay down appropriate sanctions for infringements. Basic principles, objectives and solutions have also been derived from this basic objective. It is impossible to expect that the law will determine exactly what is an offence and what is not permitted. There are always and there will be socialities that cannot be prevented. There will always be, but if marriage were to be so precise, there would be gray zones of marriage. However, our duty and obligation as legislative branches of government is to ensure that people are safe and orderly, to exercise by law the right of an individual to security and dignity and to protect an individual from acts that disturb peace and excitement. Public order and peace are the good of everyday life, which ensures a secure and peaceful feeling and is a minimum of social rules that are necessary for coexistence in the environment in which we live. In the parliamentary group, after a thorough and critical discussion, we decided to support the provision, as well as the amendment, which exacerbates the entry of young people into inn facilities where alcoholic beverages are poured in late evening hours. We are convinced that the law prohibiting the sleeping and drinking of young children does not affect any child's rights, and even less so is an attack on their freedom. It is right that we try to limit the destructive work of young teenagers somehow, which is the fundamental mission of parents and education. Unless otherwise done, for their own good and for the best of purposes, also by means of appropriate legislation. If the law before us is to achieve its goal of ensuring security and peace, we will need both police officers and directors, with the experience and knowledge that will act wisely and with soundness of mind when the affected expect swift action and normalisation of the situation, public order and peace, in the sense that the most often is a warning and the fine is the last. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are convinced that the bill is good because it is intended to regulate and ensure the security and well-being of the individual and society as a whole and will be an integral part of the mosaic in the positive design of Slovenian society and state. If he lives as he is expected, there will also be a trial stone for Slovenian society, where he must dominate the knowledge that the rights of one person are limited to the rights of the other, and thus the protection of privacy, the provision of life in peace and in a secure environment. That is why we will also support the draft law in this reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Pavel Gantar will present the views of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Many words have already been said on the proposal for a law on the protection of public order and peace, which is now under third reading. We regret that our amendments, which we have tabled in the second reading and in our view would significantly improve the text, have not been adopted. Even more, an amendment was adopted which introduces "horo legalis" and thus extends the country's paternal, guardianship role from the control and behaviour of people in public spaces, including to private relations between parents and children. Let me repeat the main findings of this law. Firstly, certain acts against public order and peace are covered by acts that are qualified as crimes. This opens the door to arbitral decision-making and to different treatments of the same actions by different officials or in different places and areas in Slovenia. The law tries to codify what moral acceptable conduct is. It therefore introduces certain forms of repression against the disputed, for any disputed or unworthy, whatever but not prohibited conduct such as, say, begging and prostitution. This is totally in line with the ideology of this government to try to control and intervene in private and private relations, its own taste and its own values and norm makes it generally binding on everyone else, without calling for it. The law also introduces public officials and thus allows less qualified persons to take action in sensitive cases, as well as the use of certain means of coercion for which they are not qualified. In addition, the allocation of competences [[We don't have a law on red tape.]] It's not clear. There is a possibility that at certain events that violate public order and peace, they will not, as usual, intervene, not raiders or police officers. Both of them will clearly be citing that we should intercede with the others. In short, the law does not bring what every law in a decent democratic and liberal society should do. In order to prevent and sanction acts on public premises that strike at the rights of others, instead it brings us some kind of house order or better said household order or turn the country into a large boarding house by banning us from entering now, then to the slightly older and finally to all, and by introducing rules of decent conduct. Usually, however, these rules of decent conduct are violated by those who have written and adopted them. One more thing about the amendment that we tabled, which is trying to delete in the second reading the introduced "horo legalis". Our argument here is quite clear. This is that, by this amendment, the State assumes rights and duties in the upbringing of children who primarily belong to parents. Parents are concerned and responsible for the child's benefit to all others, which is also enshrined in Article 18, paragraph 1, of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. A minor who needs guidance, advice, education, which is what parents, including other institutions, are called first, but not of course that the state takes on a repressive role and simply forbids them, I don't know what, as a stated visit to restaurants after this and this hour. Besides, it interferes with the fact that he acts like a paternalist, guardian, something more. Above all, the state is moving with this. It is brought forward before the fact that different categories of minors and minors have significant problems in this society, that there are certain deviant practices in these categories, with which minors sometimes also harm and hurt themselves and that this is of course a problem that needs to be addressed. We move in a simple way to say they don't go out at night, so we've done everything and their problems are now someone else's problems. If the country responds in this perplexing way, these problems and those problems that these groups of people or minors have will, of course, increase. Not to mention the unsolicited consequences. One of them is because they're not allowed to go there, they're going to get together in these bars, I don't know, like I mentioned before, under bridges, in hidden parks and so on. And they will be subject there much more, if I may say, to unregulated or untransparent situations. There will be a lot more opportunities for actions that, of course, we generally feel are not beneficial to them and not to anyone else. On the basis of personal experience from the nightlife of the Maribor capital, it is not possible to draw the fact that children need to be shut down. I don't know what's going on in Maribor, in Ljubljana or anywhere else at night, and I don't really care for once. It may be, but it's not possible to make laws from these personal experiences. Once again, I urge you to accept and delete our amendment, which actually does something bad right in a group that is the most sensitive and actually takes away some primary authority, a primacy of trust between parents and children, because only they know best whether or not it is good for them or not. The state does not know that, the state is more unaware of that, and the state must not take the right to know that.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Mrs Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members. The Group of Social Democrats has already explained its fundamental views on the law on public order and peace in the context of the general discussion. Later, in the process of negotiating with the drafters of the law, it sought to establish some of the grounds for the concerns raised in relation to this law and which were not resolved after the examination at the home labour body and after the second reading at the meeting of the National Assembly. We believe that a new law on the protection of public order and peace is indeed necessary to replace the law on offences against public order and peace, which, in the opinion of the applicants, is no longer in line, since it has been written in a spirit of different time and circumstances, as well as a number of interventions to this applicable law, have been designed to dictate a change in the legal text. However, we cannot shake the view in the Group that we have not received a clear answer to the question whether the basic purpose of the law is to regulate the area of public order and peace in public places and in private spaces, in the text we have received the appropriate confirmation. Indeed, we are witnessing events that do not build a sense of security in individuals. However, the fundamental question is whether anything that threatens an individual, his or her life and safety and the security of his or her property, as well as his or her well-being in public places and in private premises, can be regulated in this law, in particular because this is often linked to an individual’s acceptance rate and not only to a level of acceptability in society. Some offences and crimes will have to be defined as unacceptable social acts as a crime or a crime and will also be subject to sanctions. However, for a variety of unacceptable social behaviour under this law, it must be established that it is not sufficiently clear and definitively defined and that the question of whether sanctions are decided for them is also an open question. Discussions in the context of the adoption of this law show that the views on the extent to which certain behaviours can be sanctioned in individuals are very different. The law introduces some new offences and does not eliminate arbitration. We have tried to prove to the proponents that there are many things in the law that remain at the level of moral categories and values that are linked to rather vague and vague concepts. In the law, we find expressions of abusive speech, of unworthy conduct. What is the difference between brazen and presumptuous conduct, between rude conduct and a variety of such things, could be mentioned, which remained unclear in the bill. It is therefore also a series of overlaps that have a different interpretation in the criminal code than they do in the law on public order and peace. The applicant based this on a conscious decision of a different approach to this. There's been a exclamation. The question arises whether shouting out of joy is the same offense as shouting, which is linked to aggressive, abusive and other threatening behavior. It is therefore a question of how a police officer as a criminal body will take into account the opinion of an individual or a group of people who thinks that his or her individual or the rights of the group have been threatened and violated. A particular issue is the transfer of certain responsibilities to the local community and to the public. It has already been warned that we do not yet have a law on editors, and we bear certain responsibilities. We must also say that we have failed to convince the proposer that some things would be good to unite and deal with in one common article, where the offence would be defined and defined by a penalty or fine, and we have not achieved that. In particular, I am referring to the dispersion in the initial and continuation of the part of the law where sanctions are mentioned. We have said a great deal about the inadmissibility of certain definitions of offences, such as overnight stays in a public place, of begging in a public place. We don't know if this law will mention vandalism. However, the question is certainly raised that the police, by increasing the number of offences defined in this law, do not impose too much work and that we will not soon witness a re-examination of the abolition requirement because the number of offences will become so dense. And now let me just touch the last thing that needs to be said under this law. We believe that, in the second reading of the plenary session, the law has also received some additions; I am referring to article 21, which speaks of order and peace in catering establishments and at events and on the safety of minors, but I am particularly talking about the latter, which, according to the Social Democrats, do not belong to this law, because it is a law on public order and peace and the provisions of article 21 which affect the legal matter of at least two laws, the law on local self-government and the law on the restriction of alcohol consumption. It would be appropriate for the proposers of this amendment, who were able to convince the majority of the national assembly that it had adopted such an amendment, which is now included in Article 21 of the Act, to think more carefully about the meaning and relevance of such a regulation concerning young people, with a year-old or 16-year-olds being placed, while a 18-year-old year-old's statute on spending limitation is valid. Is it possible to expect that, along with their parents, they can come to places where alcoholic beverages are allowed to be poured, including those who are significantly younger than 16 years old? I do not want to provoke Members and Members of Parliament by making cases of such a provision allowing them to enter, in conjunction with their parents, an alcoholic drink facility, even a significantly younger child from 16 years of age. We therefore believe that the solution set out in the law in Article 21 is not acceptable and depends on how the debate and the vote on the amendment will unfold is also dependent on support or non-support for the social democrats of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u14	Nice greetings to the presidents, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, honourable Members, Members and also to the visitors who accompany us in this Chamber! Indeed, much has already been said and written about the law on the protection of public order and peace, and in particular about the specific topics dealt with by law. In Novi Slovenija, before its first general hearing in this Chamber, we were aware that a number of questions, doubts, concerns would be raised due to the sensitivity of the area under consideration. And perhaps especially because the law in force is now 30 years old, more than 30 years old, and apparently there was no courage in previous governments to undertake its complete reconstruction. Although there have been many changes, there has been no complete renovation. In doing so, it was necessary to address the current challenges. And it is indeed a great challenge to make such a law that will allow life to be in order and in style during this time. In New Slovenia, however, we are convinced that the marriage proposal contains appropriate solutions, since as a presumptive violation it defines infringement, infringement, infringement of one person towards an individual or society. However, you must surely agree with us that the country with the effective work of the competent authorities is the one who has to provide people with security in both the personal and the property fields. Of course, today there are new and new types of crimes and crimes not only in Slovenia, but around the world the question of how to find the right relationship between privacy and security. However, according to the opinion of the New Slovenia Group, this limit is established in the law, in particular, how to ensure the highest possible degree of security through as little interference as possible with the individual's privacy. Public order and peace mean a state in which the unhindered exercise of the rights and duties enshrined in the Constitution and laws is ensured, either of the inhabitants or only visitors to Slovenia. In the New Slovenia Group, we agree with the view that the rights and duties are inseparably derived from the human free nature, which is reasonable and emotional on the one hand, and also personal and social. Therefore, we cannot talk about the right separately from duty, nor can we lay down obligations without the recognition of parallel rights. Rights and duties are to such an extent part of a human being who owns every person, that no one can take them away or take them away, and in fact an individual cannot give them up. However, there is also a need for awareness that there is no way to escape responsibility. Since the law is based on these assumptions, we will support it in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Kristijan Janc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, young people on the balcony! The draft law on the protection of public order and peace in the third reading had previously had an interesting debate in this House and even more interesting in the media. We have read many such and different thoughts on this subject. He received special attention, which is also quite right and nothing is wrong. Obviously, this law, which we pay special attention to, will also be further marked by today's four-hour third-reading debate. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have been working on the best possible law on public order and peace. Let me begin by stressing our satisfaction at the fact that in the second reading the National Assembly also recognized the importance of the protection of minors and adopted the amendment tabled in the Slovenian People's Party's Group with Novo Slovenija. We support the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. Let us point out once again that the current text of the law does not mean "wore legalis" because they limit access to certain events and venues to less than 16 years of age, but only to those where alcoholic beverages are poured. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We were parents, they were, and they're gonna be the first and chief educators of our children. This is certainly true when we also have teachers in schools, teachers in schools, and so on. I am sure that a part of this can also help the Slovenian country, because at this time of globalisation, many problems, including youth, which, if we want to look closely, we can see that there are problems, and the country can at least partly help. There is much talk of an absurd provision. Certainly not. Is it not absurd, then, that someone under the age of 18 can not buy alcohol in a store? And his parents can give him the freedom to eat him. An argument on extremes is unnecessary in our view. This is what we face whenever it comes to very important issues. Even when it comes to same - sex families, for example, the argument is that same - sex parents are better at raising children than traditional parents who can also be alcoholics and beat their children. This argument based on peripheral cases will not be accepted. In addition to strict and clear arrangements for the protection of minors, according to the World Health Organisation, it is essential to regulate the implementation of legislation. While surveillance should be self-evident, Slovenian practice also shows that the effects are good and internationally comparable because of the lack of supervision. The provision on the protection of minors in the law on public order and peace therefore plays an important role. Today's amendment of SDS, New Slovenia and SLS further regulates this and will allow for better implementation of this provision of the law. The Law on Public Order and Peace follows legal objectives and must be supported. But we do not want to interfere with the rights of young people and their parents, but we want to protect young people. This is also our primary objective. Your Honor! I am very pleased that after this adoption of amendments in public among citizens, he has received extremely high support. Have you not been accompanied by some when reading this law? The people in the environment where I come from were extremely excited about such an amendment. That means it's acceptable, but it's definitely not for everyone. There are 90 Members, such and different, and thank God that we are different and are thinking differently and that is also the point of parliamentary democracy. But most supported this amendment and we think that there has been tremendous support among the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, respected colleagues and colleagues, this does not have such a direct connection with today's law. Yesterday after 14 hours of hard work in this national assembly with broad and interesting debates on such a different subject, and at such and different conclusion of yesterday's meeting as a Member, even a little tired, even at additional heat, after leaving this Parliament we probably did not deserve to leave with colleagues when we passed students who measured us with fascists. This is our future, these are our intellectuals, these are our future Members, these are our future mayors, politicians? That's what I'm worried about. This is certainly not what we Members of this National Assembly have earned after 14 hours of work in this Parliament, despite different views, because we want to adopt the best legislation in this time of year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. A full discussion is under way on the proposal for a law. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. I must say that I was very surprised when we adopted this amendment in the second reading, which in my opinion certainly does not bring what my predecessor has also tried to quote. I myself read again very carefully the explanation following this amendment. One reason is that the measure introduced by this amendment is a radical but very effective measure. It is very difficult to say that a measure is very effective before it comes into force at all. On the basis of experience, however, I would certainly like to join all those who talk about not being achieved in order to reduce the consumption of alcohol in young people. Why won't it be achieved? It's not a problem that we young people will be banned from entering a liquor store at some point in the night. The problem is essential elsewhere and has content, the foundation is essential elsewhere. Why do youths want to cut down on alcohol during these years? What was done earlier in this society that a young person is at this time, during this period of night, somewhere where he naturally wants to have access to this alcohol? When I talked to experts who regularly monitor both alcohol use and other drugs, they always have this attitude. If someone is already drinking alcohol, especially young ones, then they should do so, if they are already doing so, in a place where it is possible to see these consequences. If it's done in a bar, then at least there's someone in this bar who can see if there's a negative, like, drastic consequences. However, if we allow young people to move during this age period, at 12, 13, as the proponent points out, we will direct them in the eyes of hidden parks, under bridges, that is to say, into the closed environments of certain residential areas. And in this case, it is always necessary to ask whether the risk is not significantly greater in order to bring about a very extreme event. Therefore, of course, there is no way that I can accept the argument that this is about helping parents to prevent young people from accessing alcohol. The role of parents and the relationship between parents and children is conditioned by a number of documents. The priority role of parents is to raise children. When we talk about being at the top of the European alcohol consumption scale in Slovenia, it is interesting to touch one segment of the day and one segment of the population with this measure. We have not said anything about those who are most responsible for this issue. And to give an alibi for someone to take care of what my priority role as a parent is to educate young people about this issue, because it is impossible to ensure 24-hour control of anyone. From experience, I can agree that drinking alcohol in young people is a problem for young people to take too much alcohol. But I wonder if then this society, even though we have a law restricting the use of alcohol, does everything that the minors cannot have access to alcohol by the age of 18. Why is this measure not a concern of the whole of this Parliament and of the whole of society, institutions that need to ensure that access to alcohol is reduced? I recall the debate about the so-called "Cebro Law" when we tried to introduce these changes and there were a lot of words about prohibition, what I know, about returning at some point, about regulation, which, so on and so on, only increases the desire to have access to alcohol. In this respect, I find the measure, as adopted in the second reading in the National Assembly, without being dealt with in advance by the parent labour body, unacceptable, because it will not achieve what the applicant wants and prejudges in advance. This is a very drastic measure; I am afraid the effect will be just the opposite. But I would not want to receive such confirmation for an amendment that gives parents a false alibi. A false alibi to reduce access to and consumption of alcohol in adolescents now. I can tell a story that we discussed at school when some mom asked me to, and she said, "Come on, principal, do something to make sure our kids are home at 5:00 in the morning and the disks are closed." I said, look, the action is very simple. You make a deal with a child, what kind of life you have in your family at night. I must say, she thought very much about the answer, which was very simple. This amendment speaks mainly of us parents. Don't talk about the kids. Don't talk about children, but talk about us, about our failure to treat our children. And here it seems to me that there will be a lot of opportunities for us to make sure, in certain segments, that access, alcohol consumption in young people is primarily conditioned by how we do it. For it is impossible to have a clear conscience that at half past twelve we are lying under a table, drinking alcohol, when we call young people under age 16, and you are denied access to alcohol after 12:00. By 12 p.m., however, everything is fine and well, after 12 p.m., we do not ask ourselves in what way, where, how minors move until 16 years of age. That is why, of course, I want and I hope that this amendment today, which is being tabled by various parliamentary groups which are interfering with this Article, will correct the text of this Act. I cannot agree with the motioners that this is an effective measure for the purposes for which the proposer has also proposed this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u19	Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go, please. You're giving up? Thank you. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u20	Thank you very much, again. For the first time, what I want to say is that young people with chains attached to the corner of the house cannot be brought up. Second of all, it was said that young people resented it. They wondered if this was our future. Yeah, these are our kids. How is it that those who wonder why young people resent not notice Members and Members of Parliament at times? Thirdly, parents, it was said, parents were, they were, and they would be the first educators. Here. Bad breeders, too. These children who measured were raised by the same parents. These same parents are also those who, according to the analysis prepared by the police in their report, are the greatest violators of public order and peace, according to the analysis prepared by the prosecutor. Most of the time, they're accused of crimes and so on. And interestingly enough, you hardly find any young people among those. So these same parents will now be brought up, and these parents will be the guardians of our young children, whom we do not trust, as you can see, of the future. Next time. We in the DeSUS Group are in favour of implementing the law we already have. Why didn't you insist that this law be implemented, why didn't you force the government to report and enforce the law? Why is it not a law that talks about restricting access to alcohol, which the Ministry of Health in that part that talks about the programme should have prepared long ago, and we have not seen it? Why are Members of the coalition group not committed to making the programme that we have entered into the coalition agreement to prepare a programme for young people with a friendly environment? Don't tie it to the corner of the house. Why don't you read when you refer to research as a chronic argument of everything that's written in this study? Why didn't you mention anything in your proposal for a non-christian case, and those you refer to probably didn't read this study. Why don't you talk about what the World Health Organization recommends? Why don't you talk about what the European Action Plan recommends, which doesn't say anything about it, what you're proposing? It proposes all other measures. Why not read this, and the legal restrictions do not have much effect on the drinking of minors. Why have you not read what this study says that alcoholic policy makers agree that measures are aimed only at young people, without a wider view of the entire population, and are doomed to failure? Young beer behaviors imitate and inherit from adults. That's what the research says. And not what you want to show with this research. Why have you not read that in Ireland they believe in NGOs that legal measures have no effect on the drinking of minors? Why didn't you read when you called on Germany not to prevent abuses in Germany? Why didn't you read that in Spain, young people were driven from disco clubs to streets, markets, parks? It's all in the research you're referring to. All of this speaks against the way young people are restrained with chains.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u22	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. For quite some time we have been talking about this law, not only here in Parliament, but also some public presentations have been that I think have benefited and some things have been improved. But some of them were left behind. One of these is this famous "hora legalis", which some say is not "hora legalis". Of course we could talk about it. Others say it's a curfew, it's probably closer to true, only it's selective and only valid for one part of the population. But anyway, it's not a good thing. She's not good for all these reasons, and I'm not going to repeat them because Mr Rezman just told them. Alcoholism and sleepiness are linked, of course. And access to alcohol is too great in Slovenia, even for minors, as well as for adults, as far as we know. We have a marriage for minors, and I don't know why this isn't actually happening. The fact that young people are now being driven out of relatively well-protected spaces or at least those where there is at least one part of society that can help with problems on roads, streets, forests, parks, where, of course, people tend to run away, when things happen, police know that very well, those who are on the ground, not those who are in the offices and who have difficulties then investigating various matters. This, of course, will not change behavior in the basics, in the first families, in those where things start and, of course, they usually end. Children don't begin to be raised when they're 16 years old, not by such methods at all. If 16, 15, 14 escapes with exercise, it escapes because something went wrong at two, three, four years. There children decide what they will do in life and what they will do. Of course, at this general level, not some profession they will have, but such things, then character, custom, then the basic habits are formed. And at 14, 15, 16, starting with such restrictive measures, of course, it is very late. On the other hand, it is a cover-up for poor parents. And one more thing, parents will, of course, be punished for this, because they are responsible for children and, of course, this pressure will not go anywhere but back to the children of the family and to the surrounding area, this anger, anger and all that will follow the 30,000 punishments, so it goes on in life, gentlemen. I am, of course, against restricting freedom and limiting it or in some way reducing the responsibility of those who must be most responsible for their children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u23	Mr. Christian Janc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Chairman, once again. Of course, opinions are different and so is, nothing wrong with that. I claim and I am sure that what we have done is right, simply because, I confirm this once again, that children, at this time between 24:00 and 5 a.m. in nightclubs without parents' escorts, where they usually drink alcohol, where they smoke, where they also eat other illicit substances, where there are still many things going on, probably does not help to shape the personality of our children, who, as parents, mayor, MP and citizen, want absolutely all the best. I am sure that for many families, for many parents, this amendment has no touch at all, because they will not be interested, but perhaps some parents, and some families can do this a little bit. And why don't we just be so friendly here and help them. I hope it doesn't mean anything to my children. Maybe there are some parents in Slovenia who can at least partially help them with what a colleague has said before what he would have done if that were the case. And, dear colleagues, does society not want to have this area better regulated, which would allow this measure, this amendment, which causes so much bile needlessly? Does this society not want to be a knowledge-based society? Yes, and these children at this time - I agree, from kindergarten to school and to the end - to try to raise as well as possible. And what is wrong if this loving country does something small? Nothing's wrong. Do we not live at a time when our families are completely different from yours, Mr. Rezman, back then? Today we live in a time of globalisation, capitalism, we work 10, 12, 14 hours a day and there is no time for contact with the family, there is no time for children; unfortunately it is not enough for Members, even for many other citizens. Believe me, it's not the time your parents spent 10 hours a day with their family. Today we are - how much? Two, three, maybe not so much. Unfortunately, the changes are enormous from that time onward to the one we live in today. Believe me, that's not exactly what's on your mind. I believe there will be a few more discussions on this subject, against or for. I am sure that this amendment will give something positive, which has been shown in the end by polls, people's opinions that this is, however, a sensible, smart step forward, and that it may help some parents to raise their children even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u25	Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! In a way, I would welcome the decision of the government, which has listened to the arguments in previous discussions and, if I have correctly understood the representative of the government, supports the amendment of the Social Democrats, which removes this dilemma from the agenda "hora legalis" yes or "hora legalis" no. In fact, I have to say at the outset, my colleague Janc, and without arguing that I do not agree with the argument that the pace of life is so strong that parents no longer have time for their children, that we replace their hand holding their parents' hand by giving them the law and saying, "Here, here, now we have saved this communication and this interaction." I simply do not support this amendment of the coalition for the reason that I do not agree that we still have a kind of educational obligation in the middle of the night to impose upon the State to regulate it through laws. Let's at least let the parents have this interference at night. And if you ask your children -- and I asked my children, and they're different generations -- these things don't happen from 12:00 to 5:00 in the morning, away from that. Most of these things, which you're talking about as arguments, happen by midnight. In Ljubljana, there are two such restaurants that you are talking about - look at some disks - but the capital of Slovenia - two of them are open after midnight and Global, I don't know, another. There are no others. If you are talking about innkeepers, there are other prohibitions and other laws that can already be implemented repressively. Otherwise, I would point to one other thing where I think we're a little bit of a loop. In general, aggressive behaviour has become a sign of success in all areas, whether in politics, in the economy, in the economy, in the exercise of social rights and obligations, etc. And so on. And the consequences of this image, the success of this aggression are also depressing situations and the state of dependence, and one of these addictions is alcohol and indeed, all the research shows that alcohol consumption is increasing in young people, but with this measure and with such measures we are far from acting preventively and to limit it. I'll also say otherwise, with such a provision from 12 to 5 a.m. we basically put on the same level drunkards who are prohibited from entering the bar if they are guilty, and under 16 years of age. And I will repeat once again what I said before: whether a ten-year-old may come with his parents, but he enjoys himself, he will drink and all; but he may do so in the same place at three or half past four in the morning, and I will not. If someone had already taken this repressive action, then I would say: no one, not even in the presence of parents. But I'm, in principle, against even being given that restriction. In short, once again, I would like to stress that this provision will not solve this problem, which we are talking about very much. I'll give you another one. Most alcohol and most alcohol addictions are not created and are not created in restaurants, they are in other environments. Most of the alcohol is consumed outside the inn and outside of the places where alcohol is poured. So this "outside" means that it is also a family environment, that there are also these narrow environments where young people live and do many things every day. It's not just inn and it's not just nocturnal bars or at least nocturnal restaurants from 12 to 5 in the morning. I'm in favor of controlling these things that are already in force in law, and if, as has been said today, we really did this control, then we're dealing with this problem in a way that we wouldn't be doing today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u27	Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues! I must say that I find it difficult to listen to all those who say that, when it is in some way forbidden to enter less than 16 years after 12 hours at night in places where alcohol is poured, without the presence of parents or guardians, and very difficult to understand, I find it very difficult to understand the amendment's proposers to make this determination, this restriction clause is deleted and that we are talking here about restricting freedom when it comes to youth, about children under 16 years of age. I do not understand this because this proposal has been tabled that this provision should be deleted and it is not possible that this provision should be amended or amended. For me, this means that these proponents advocate unlimited and completely free movement and consumption of alcohol for all people, regardless of their age. I would understand if we suggested that this would change and that this area would be handled differently. In fact, I do not claim that this is exactly what has been determined optimally, as it is written; that this is the best that can be arranged in this area. But at this point, I have no better solution, and no one else offers a better solution. All you people who speak say is that this has to be deleted. You're not offering anything better. Some may feel that the age limit is not the right one for 16 years, but they would expect to offer an appropriate argument to the second age limit, I don’t know, maybe 15, maybe 17 or maybe even 14 years. But I know there's a limit to being set somewhere. If there is no limit, then it means that young children can do everything that adults do, including sleep and drunkenness. Do you really think that such perfect liberalism is good and beneficial for children? You will say so, and you will also say that parents should ensure that their children do not go around and drink. That's right. Parents are first called to raise their children, but whether that means that others are not and that the country must not care whether the youth is brought up and valued or not. Are not all of us called upon to do that if parents do not take their primary care for their children, that they may not be able to care for us, and to do everything necessary to make young people who have not matured to the point where they can understand their actions and their consequences as much as they can and are aware of some minimally expected responsibility to protect such children? Of course the state can't replace parents. Nobody says that either. That would make no sense. However, she is called to do so in those areas where she can, help and prevent anomalies in the child’s development. And the sleeping and drinking of children is certainly an anomaly. And if children go alone to places where it happens at a time that's just for children to do something else, then of course it's an anomaly. There is no unlimited freedom, especially we owe to the challenges of inviting opportunities to protect children and adolescents who are unaware of the consequences of their behaviour because of their underdevelopment. However, I agree with those who have doubts about the age limit set here, as I have already said, and who could then, on the basis of the professional arguments of various professions such as medicine, sociology, psychology and others, come to another age limit, which was more appropriate, although in my opinion the age limit is 16 years, but I do not insist, perhaps there are professional arguments that would dictate another. Of course, I will also agree with a different age limit if it is technically justified. I also allow that the formulation of the formula that the proposed amendment wishes to delete is not the best, but if I had a better proposal for a text of this provision, I would offer it myself with an amendment. This would also be expected from those who, up to the content of this, have set critical proposals, but you have not made such proposals. I believe that the provision of this Article is good and that its deletion would be inappropriate, harmful, and would also show a significant degree of concern and carelessness towards the proper physical and mental development of our children. I am talking about children on purpose, because I believe that we are still talking about children under 16 years of age. We also need to pay attention to our children when we are preventing something harmful in the future, and not only as a result, when we are already confronted with the harmful consequences and can only mitigate such harmful consequences. In the recent case of Lip, many people were wise only after the tragedy had already taken place. What matters here is not what I hear with the interlocutors during my debate, it is important that we are smart after something happens, but not that we can do something where we can also prevent it. Therefore, the proposed amendment, which wishes to delete this provision, of course I cannot and I do not want to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u29	He has a word, Mr. Sasho Pece. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u30	Thank you. Respectable present. I personally believe in the proposalers in order to try to provide citizens and citizens, regardless of their age, with the greatest possible security in their everyday lives. Personally, I also believe that in doing so you have taken into account the requirements for freedoms, regardless of whether they appear in any emerging form, but the fact is that, over time, especially with the modernisation of both Slovenia and Europe or our wider space, both concepts are quite moving. On the one hand, the security that we are promoting until a certain point in time seems to us to be this restriction. On the other hand, we all want freedom, as much freedom as possible, but at the same time this right line, to where security is, and to where freedom is increasingly moving away, it is very difficult to equalize or very difficult to set the boundaries of one and where the boundaries of the other are. And I believe that the debate, both at the previous meeting of the National Assembly in connection with the amendment and today, is primarily about where freedom is and where security is. Maybe it'll be easier to answer -- a while ago, a long time ago, I was talking to one of the cops. Really long ago and he actually said: he was doing a very classic work within the city of Maribor and he said that the only thing that bothered him in his work - not paying, not working conditions - was seeing that people in normal days avoid him, that there are a lot of yelling around them and actually mocking him. But he said, but there are moments when all of this is weighed down, especially when he sees gratitude in the eyes of the people who help them. Then, too, we forget what we said or mocked the police. In short, when the moment comes when we need their help, then all of us wonder why there was no action before, why the police have no more powers. But this stage occurs when this moment occurs; a moment of need for security. But it's our decision. And if I initially talked about security and freedom, it might even be easier to talk about protection and freedom. Where is that gap between the need for protection and the need for freedom? And the reference to protection or mentioning protection usually comes too late. Only when an individual, regardless of his age, becomes a victim. It is only at that moment that it values protection in any form, whether within a time limit, whether it is on the limitation of safety-road regulations or any other. But only when he or his neighbor or acquaintance individually suffers some consequences does he regret that he has always spoken freedom, freedom, freedom is far more important. Let there be no restrictions within our country or society and beyond. And from this title, at least given that I have said that, after my assessment of the rights of freedom and protection rights, they are increasingly moving away in the context of the modernisation of society, I will support the proposal of the law, as it is now at its core. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u31	Mr Milan Friday, LDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u32	Thank you, Vice President. I myself am one of those Members who Mr Kovacic will find it difficult to listen to. This is what he used to say: "Those who speak of these 'hore legalis'." I will speak because you offered or proposed to us to do this amendment differently and to try to change it with a dictatorship, so I understood that the law prohibits the pouring of alcohol in these places. In doing so, Mr Kovacic, you have forgotten something that we have adopted a system law, a law that completely prohibits the use of 24 hours in minors, and by the time a person rises up, until a person goes to bed. This law already exists, we have it, and with any addition in this amendment, we would evaluate it more than we would enforce. As a result, such a solution is pointless. When I speak of the law as a whole, which has indeed caused the most absurdity in this House's work so far, as Mr Rezman said. Absurdity in all areas, from interference itself or indecent behaviour in a public place, to a choir of legalis, to begging and so on. With this absurdity, it brings so much conflict in the implementation of this law that it is likely that the legislator or those who will have to implement the law will come to know this, and I hope that they will come to Parliament with a more real law. This is a law that actually takes a step back, takes a step back in the 1960s. I remember in Maribor one period when party February decided that "hora legalis" should rule in Maribor, that after a certain period the youth should not appear in public. In this way we return to a period that is "far behind us" and at least I thought that we would never experience it again in this part of social life, rather than taking into account that we are deep in democracy, that in this democracy liberality is one of the values, that this democracy needs to be trusted and trusted primarily by parents, we are doing legal measures that do not bring, at least after my judgement, smart solutions. Interestingly, I was alone at a meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, as this complement actually came about. From one of the Members' almost incontrovertible discussions, a article was later born in this law, which was even supported by the government, because I am surprised that the government initially rejected such thoughts. It is interesting that this Member is in Maribor today, he is a Mariborian Member, he also introduces himself as a candidate for mayor and thus as a candidate for mayor in advance expresses his distrust of his constituents, his Mariborians, his parents, that is to say those colleagues and colleagues, parents who may or may not elect him. I find this to be incomprehensible in Maribor, which is actually a model of how such measures are used, with such prohibitions nothing can be done. For this reason, I would like to say that I have a feeling, and I place it on the soul and the heart of other Members as you did not trust the students yesterday, so obviously today you won't trust your parents, you won't trust your students, you won't trust your minors, you won't trust them to manage their lives themselves, and you don't trust yourself indirectly. Find out for yourself what you did to those who raised your children. I am alone among those I have three who have all gone to school of life through without my torture, without my ban, but with my attention, with my waiting before the disco club when it was necessary to go after them, with my influence that alcohol is not a category, is not a value that should be specially developed - and I have succeeded. And I believe that there are a lot of those between us that we have succeeded, but today we are taking a step back in legislation that, in my view, should not be the subject of our debate at all at this time. If in football jargon, today is the current, I will illustrate this work today when you adopt, if you adopt, such a law, at least at this point, and at some other point in the law you will strike a goal. And I believe there will be a lost match with those you blew two years ago at the vote on the soul. And they will probably learn by this law that you have elected Members who are willing to lose instead of winning the exercise of these freedoms, these values in this dear to all of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u33	Mr. Kovacich, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I have to take this. I was completely misunderstood if you understood me by encouraging the opponents of this provision to prohibit the pouring of alcoholic beverages. Certainly not if I thought, as I said, I proposed an amendment with such content. I don't have a solution that's better than this. But if you guys want to just delete it, you can offer it. You didn't offer it. But I think that praise about his own parenting was only a little excessive and inappropriate. This is shown by actions, not by speaking out publicly about what you do yourself. Show it by your actions, you don't have to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u35	Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, according to the debate, football fever is at its peak, many use the terms "stop the ball" and "stop the carpool" and so on and the elections will be in the autumn, local. And the parliamentary election campaign has certainly already begun, we are already assessing what they are doing or what they are thinking. A few things in this law, the bill is one that is kind of close to me and I think it is necessary for them to be settled, but of course there are also things that, according to my opinion, do not belong to this law. In doing so, I should say that it may sometimes be highly counterproductive to prohibit or enforce a ban. Young people, as well as slightly older ones, are some kind of rebel. And if you say something very thorough to them, it is an additional challenge for them to do so with the frequent question of peers: Do you hope? And then we get the results that we're witnessing to them right now. So, just a ban won't bring results. The ban on entering a place where alcoholic beverages are poured without the presence of parents or caregivers after 12 p.m. means that children whose parents are susceptible to drinking after 12 p.m. can freely come to this place and even watch their parents drink in these places. And if the law, which is already in force and speaks of a 24-hour ban on pouring alcoholic beverages to minors, "will not last" will, of course, be able to drink together with these parents in these places, but those who wanted to go to this place to a party without using or consuming alcoholic beverages will stay outside the door of the bar, will gather or gather dissatisfied crowds of young people who would not be allowed in this place. And what can this do to this place? Probably some kind of mess or something. And when we talk about parental responsibility, it is true that by the age of 16, parents could have a significant impact on children’s absence from places where alcoholic beverages are poured after 12 o’clock. But, look, many times there is one trust on the parent-child relationship that they built and parents know where the child is at a certain point, they also know that he is in this place. If we stop him from entering this place, the parents won't know where their children are anymore, but they'll be in the parks, they'll be in abandoned facilities, they'll meet where conditions are for something else, not just drinking alcohol. Therefore, one reason is also needed for tolerance, and in particular for the educational influence of this youth, whom we want to protect from what is outside their family, sometimes within their family, is threatening. So; I am sure that only with the ban will we not achieve a great movement forward. In Velenje, I am leading a council to improve the security of citizens and many times we face the problem of young people with vandalism; vandalism is covered in this bill - as regards punishment - I think. And in these places where they're banned, there's almost no very big mistake or deviation from what we expect. On the way to this place and leaving this place, strange things happen. Vandalism is happening, it is happening that on their way from the place to home they destroy everything that is possible, and there are these problems that we will have to face. And when we talk about alcohol, pouring alcoholic beverages, it will be important to increasingly warn and prevent the use of other drugs that are still present in our space and that will, in certain segments, cause serious overcrowding. So, simply by banning and thus helping parents, whom we now say they no longer control their children, we will not solve these problems. We will locate them elsewhere, locate them where there is absolutely no control, and thus lose a last glimpse of what is happening, which somehow only takes place under some kind of control in places where owners must also take care of order within these premises. Tragedies are known, events are known in front of bars, and this is a story that goes beyond the subject of law today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u37	Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! I'm not going to support a marriage like this because it has one big black bag and it's historically bringing us back quite a bit. Sometimes we said, "Where's the order, there's no freedom," but if there's no freedom, that means slavery. What's this all about? This law, in particular this amendment, is based on some negative assumption that we face from Murphy's laws, where it says that if anything is possible, this will happen. And now, if they're pouring alcohol in these bars, that means our kids are going to drink it. Far from it! I wonder what this step means. We're going to be creating some celibacy society where in the future, in some places, it's going to be forbidden, say, to enter women, because there are men who have some organs that allow sin to occur? Listen, this means a step back to the Middle Ages and a return to the Inquisition. We don't deal with drugs, we don't deal with smoking and other harmful behaviors. We do not deal with how to build more children's, sports playgrounds, how to build and rebuild more youth rooms and youth homes that we have once had, but we introduce some senseless and absurd ban, saying, "We will ban something, and this will not happen." The path is simply different. We need to set up a mirror, not a mirror after 24 p.m., but in the early hours of the morning, when the day is working and planning, and if we behave and act differently, such amendments and such prohibitions will simply be absurd and pointless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u39	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Above all, in the proposal for this amendment, which provides for the deletion of the provision that minors under 16 years of age are not allowed to enter alcohol-filled establishments without their parents' escort at midnight. What I'm listening to here and the qualifications you're using, they just don't go into my account! What terrible consequences do you see? You're literally predicting apocalyptic things, but the celibacy society doesn't know everything, the black pack, slavery, and so on we've just heard. However, I wonder whether you see the whole of Europe that there is slavery and messy and black, because these are solutions that are virtually everywhere in Europe, in the countries to which we have sought to join. My forerunner said, "Where there is no freedom." And now I wonder whether when colleague Anderlič and the other brought a proposal to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is now in force, it was justified to propose it in order to have more order in Parliament. So, the basic intention, in your opinion, was to abolish freedom in the State Parliament at that time. If so, then it is only now that we have revealed what was the purpose of your change of rules, and perhaps the theory of subconscious has struck out. I must say that you are wrong and that you do not give accurate information when you say that we don't trust our parents and I don't know what else. After the adoption of this amendment, which is now part of the bill, we all - and I am sure that you too - have heard a number of reactions from parents, individually, on a personal level and I have not experienced any negative reactions. None at all! And despite the fact that this amendment was accompanied in the media work by completely inappropriate propaganda, causing some panic. Look, on the Info Channel, the word "police hour" about this amendment was spinning for three days. And I just can't imagine if it's this kind of ignorance, probably a journalist who doesn't know what a curfew is. The curfew is related to state of emergency, no movement, no gathering, and I don't know what. This solution does not foresee any of this. It is not forbidden to move, it is not prohibited to even hold on to minors in these hours, nothing at all. But nevertheless, the diction was given to this negative clevification. And also what you've been paying for is "hora legalis." That's not true. It's not about any hora legalis, no one is forbidden to hold back, no movement at this time. It is only the intention that these negative increases in alcohol consumption among minors should be reduced and limited in some way. And we still trust our parents, for parents simply did not have the strength to protect their underage children from the challenge of drinking in the early hours of the morning. We know, parents, how difficult it is when everything is allowed, when everyone is wooding, to say to a parent, "You can't go." And it is simply necessary to have some corrective also through such a way. And if all the countries you look at in other cases, and you throw it away, it's like that, and it's so unacceptable here. And now that I've mentioned how part of the press has been accompanied by an extraordinary hall effect on this proposal, with totally inappropriate qualifications, such as "police hour, chora legalis", I would say that in the morning, the Flowers of Zalokar on the mandated election committee of Del said, "It's in a newspaper that's become completely dominant," but that's not true. The magazines are democratic, and if they were completely in control, today they would not be Majda Shirca in a statement of the day and also these pictures, last night at ten, with students there would be no opposition to government solutions. And because it was said we didn't trust the students before. I think we trust our parents with this proposal and trust our students with yesterday's solutions. But we're against students being further victims of student services, their wealth, their whole thing. It's not really what you're saying that we don't trust that we're just banning it. These are positive solutions. There are times when things need to be limited temporarily. We all deeply agree, the vast majority of the Slovenian public agree that it has only gone a little too far here, this juvenile delinquency and all that is due to the fact that virtually all the borders that have been established elsewhere have fallen. It is not fair and it is not right to label us with such qualifications that I do not know where you are taking them from and how you see Slovenian society today. In fact, these qualifications are shameful, as you see the state of democracy in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u41	Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. So Slovenia, after alcohol consumption, belongs to the European Summit. We all received data on the registered consumption of alcohol per capita in Slovenia. The fact is that alcohol is relatively accessible to adults and especially young people. We have also read several times that in Slovenia alcohol is the most common drug. We already have legislation that prevents and restricts certain things. It may have proved to be insufficiently effective, and certainly because there is little effective control because where we should, we have not done enough and punished those who do not meet the legal requirements. On my first initiative for such an amendment or article, I thought a lot about it and wondered if it was a solution or what it would bring. And at first, I wasn't most excited about this proposal. I've been thinking that minors, 16-year-olds or younger children, say, 10, 12 years, are probably at home, or maybe by midnight by 5:00 in the morning. However, we also got information that said that 60% of the students had already been drinking alcohol, even more so that a few of them were already drunk before high school, it is said, during the age period we are talking about. What my colleague Jerovšek said is true. Many times are parents or we face a dilemma when a child says a classmate can go or a neighbor can go, and it's actually hard to tell him why he can't go - because we have this arrangement because we have a different arrangement. That's why somehow he's lying now and I'm looking at this action differently. However, it is a fact that such a measure will not bring about a 100 % improvement in the situation we are talking about, and we have all found that it is not the best and we should do much, with many other measures, but also by actually fulfilling and implementing the legislation already adopted in this area and punishing those who are violating it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u43	Mr. Rezman, you want a replica? Why, I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u44	I'll be very short. Only 30 seconds left. I just want to say why some people are proposing this ban on going to a place without parents. I read what one of the signatories wrote to us in the DeSUS Group: "I have a youth who is very blackmailing me to visit the disk. In association with my friends, I caught them trying to prepare for the disco earlier by drinking vodka mixed in thick juice. If there was a ban on entering this place after 24 hours, the authorities would make it very easy for me to work to prevent alcohol abuse at an age when the girl is most susceptible to it."
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u46	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, the debate is not a dialogue because it is not the intention of the amendments tabled, especially by the Liberal Democracy, to be a dialogue. It's about using one of the contents again, so that the current noise is, of course, misleading people, what is actually the content of this law and also of the disputed article 21. In view of the debate, however, I think it is right to say that I expect my fellow Members to have at least as much confidence as they expect from us to parents and children and that they will let us have our conviction and not give us any sense of reason. I might start by assessing that, on the one hand, parents are the ones who, of course, should raise children in such a way that there is no need for any restriction - this follows from the debate. Mr Friday boasted earlier that he had succeeded, and I congratulate him. I don't know if I can make it. But I do know that in recent years someone has systematically tried to free our children from parenting and our views on upbringing. This was and is still being carried out through the educational process. I'll give you specific cases. I have a habit at home that children of the right age go to bed at 9:30. I just think it's healthy and it's right. However, the legislator introduced into the work programme of primary schools, of course camps which are not small, but of course they are not officially mandatory, although they are co-financed, of course this is, I will say, a disguised stimulus to make such content mandatory. Who's gonna defend the extra money at school and not organize the camp? But in this camp, of course, no one cares what my educational principle is to my child, a teacher or educator takes the right to undermine my boundaries, and this is happening in practice. On behalf of someone - I don't know. As a parent, of course, in this system, especially in the past, I had no influence: not as a mayor, not as a teacher, not as a parent. The system, as I have said many times, has been herbetically closed and centrally guided by the minister down. Now this thing is changing, thank God, a little bit. Of course, it was a virtual democracy led by a minister with a personal name and surname. Second thing, children's rights in schools. Children's rights in schools are practically unlimited. Today, teachers focus on caring and energy, how to write procedures so that they can punish someone if they do not follow rules and order. The case of the Home School has accidentally escaped, but I tell you, in 50% of schools in Slovenia, at least one teacher has such problems. But, of course, the former school authorities have never taken responsibility for such a situation, never and never expected it to be. All of this contributes to the thinking of youths when parents and families are no longer able to influence thinking and behavior. I'm going to give you an example of how - obviously this is also a guide or a guide to schools - how children's parliaments work. Once, as mayor, I was invited to a children's parliament, and I listened for an hour from all classes only to what rights children were violated, that's all! What a problem! However, I have missed what would, of course, be appropriate for mature education, including proposals to solve problems, and when I have only once proposed one solution that the children have adopted by voting, I have not been invited to the school Parliament since. I just have another explanation. If children know only about their rights and if this is systematically introduced through the pedagogical system, which has been introduced, then we cannot be surprised and cannot exist parents that the situation is many times as it is. I don't want to generalize. Many young people I have taught myself, I think they have very sophisticated criteria, they have scale, and most young people, according to my assessment, are healthy, but these are cases that actually go to the sidelines. Now, in principle, around the philosophy of how it is broken by this, or I will say, the lack of confidence in our citizens and citizens is encouraged if certain restrictions are imposed. On the part of the Liberal Democracy, we have often heard that the only principle of restraint is self-restraint. A mature person knows how to limit himself, and we also often hear moralism on the other hand, how to limit himself, but at the same time it is interesting that a number of laws have been adopted in the previous mandate, which are extremely restrictive. Like pouring alcohol. Today we have heard in the debate that this should be done. Why didn't you perform? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, you obviously didn't. If we did, we wouldn't be behind that 21st article today! Maybe you were self-restraint, all confession! [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I think it is very unfair in one article, which sets one limit at the legislative level only because the situation in Slovenia is worrying. If anyone says that alcohol consumption among adolescents is within normal limits today in Slovenia, say it out loud. And if you've adopted the law, why haven't you implemented it? Why didn't you do it? Today, this 21 article would not be included in this proposal! We, as the legislative branch of power, cannot do anything but propose improvements to the legislation. This is a small limit that will help parents in those children who, in some ways, have also been helped by the country in some way to bring them into the wrong frame. But I explained earlier how. I'm asking you one more question. Why, if it is self-restraint and the maturity of an individual and if it is attacked by this article, I will say that there is some freedom for an individual, why in the previous term you have adopted legislation that has exacerbated road traffic punishment. Why? No need, according to your philosophy, she's not. We're all mature, we all know how to limit ourselves, and it's a shame to adopt such laws. We are interfering with freedom, and I would therefore kindly ask that this deception and this demagogicism be stopped, that this article, which is trying to help parents to a very small extent now "hora legalis", the reduction of personal freedom and similar stupidity. Take responsibility for the past years and see what the situation is like, and take some responsibility for this situation that we are in today’s parents and children.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u47	I'd like to ask for peace! Nobody has a word. Mr. Gaber, would you like to? Please, calm down!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u48	Mr Vice-President, I would like to ask you if you can at least try to keep the debate in the dark. It is obvious that some people really need laws because they do not master their own words, their own thoughts in order to regulate matters in their place. I expect us to discuss the subject here in Parliament. I know the rules of procedure have been misused, and that's a big deal. I would ask you if you could be careful that the debate remains within the limits of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well, in the debate it was possible to hear that we are not offering any other solutions, and it is true that Members of Parliament are able to overlook that the Social Democrats are offering a solution. Article 21 in the text in which it was adopted at the plenary session of the National Assembly is internally non-consistent. This is the law that speaks of public order and peace, and we suddenly get a subtitle in article 21, which says "order and protection of minors in catering establishments and events". And in a paragraph that speaks of a responsible person having to declare a violation of public order and peace, there are paragraphs which go one thought in favour, which means that persons under the age of 16 who are not accompanied by parents in liquor establishments should not enter between 24 a.m. and 5 a.m. They are introducing a rather new element that this article did not have before and is not substantiated. Why isn't she reasoned? For we think that in the legislation in force, there is sufficient room for negative impacts to be plagued by the enforcement of the legislation so far. It is in the local community to determine the operating time of individual restaurants, meaning that if the local community finds that there is something disturbing in the environment in the operation of the restaurant - for example, in Maribor we had some very noisy disco, but the local community could decide on operating time - the local community, for example the municipal council and the mayor, can change the decision on the operation of that place and those representing the authority can also take responsibility for what is happening in the local environment. This is the first point which speaks in favour of the need to delete the continuation of paragraph 1 of this Article. And now I'm going to the other thing. In the Act on the Limitation of Alcohol Consumption, the age limit to which alcohol is prohibited is set at 18 years not at 16 years. I am therefore working with the Social Democrats to implement the Act on the Limitation of the Use of Alcohol and to prohibit the sale and supply of alcohol to persons under the age of 18 not under the age of 16. That's the whole point of ours. I can easily make my own decision to limit this, because I know the bad consequences of alcohol consumption too early, but let's ask ourselves honestly why we are facing so much early alcohol consumption. I was at the round table, where alcohol experts explained how harmful these effects are and how they are passed on from parents to children, how many generations are marked by excessive alcohol consumption. Indeed, parents are responsible for the way youths behave. I am not a proponent of determinism, but the fact is that, as in family violence, we can see that a child with a history of violence often carries these samples to his environment, often in drinking alcohol as well. It is too easy for us to try to take responsibility for alcohol consumption now to be attributed to school, the country, and everyone else. It is really necessary to start in an environment where behavioral patterns can be found and to consider whether adolescents do not imitate these behavioral patterns. It's up to parents to take responsibility for this. It's hard for me to get past the fact that there's been so much bad attached to teachers and schools here before. I find this difficult to reconcile with the fact that all electoral propaganda has been directed towards a relaxed Slovenia, that the request has been made, I do not know how many times it has been repeated about a relaxed school, and that it has been reported to the school that it causes stress, that it causes competition and I do not know what else. Now it seems that the school is still responsible for certain deviations, for which parents, first and foremost, could be attentive and could be restricted and prevented under their constitutional powers. I could therefore say that I am left with the decision of the government to support our amendment, but not to change the subtitle, somewhat in doubt what the government has read in our amendment and what others think. I hope the government has read what we wanted to tell her. In view of the fact that such restriction and the creation of an article as adopted at a meeting of the National Assembly is unacceptable to the Social Democrats. For this reason - because I stress in particular, the article speaks of the responsibility of the official to declare a violation of public order and peace. In this case, however, the responsible person should first report to himself if he permits to pour and offer alcohol to a person under 16 years of age rather than putting things into a completely different context. Once again, it is necessary to ensure the implementation of the legislation in force and then to take action in legislation such as the introduction of 'horo legalis'. Yeah, well, what's different than "hora legalis" if teenagers aren't allowed to be here until they're 16 years old, like they say, after 12 hours. And I wonder if you've already been rigorous and if you've been consistent, why after twelve o'clock? Is it impossible to get drunk at a liquor store 12 hours ago, as well as in the company of parents, to say so? What if this happens despite parental escorts, when one of the parents or escorts has to go somewhere for a moment, and then the youth is alone and the drink is on the table. What happens then? So I find it unacceptable, in fact, to compare an unacceptable catastrophic situation on Slovenian roads with some other things and to say why to tighten the penalties. But, excuse me, the penalties in the Road Safety Act are imposed on full-year-olds, because full-year-olds have a driving licence and full-year-olds, not only do they harm themselves by violating these regulations, but they also endanger others. And that's why the penalties have to be tightened there. But I think every parent should know that it is harmful for a teenager to spend the night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u51	Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and fellow Members! Since Nova Slovenija was also a co-proposer of this solution in the law, I would like to say that it is not actually a "hora legalis", which some of you are persistently repeating, and you want this to happen to the public in such a way that it is presented in public. It's not "horo legalis". So, the law states that young people under the age of 16 are not allowed to go to liquor bars after 2400 hours. If you, Mrs. Potrata, think it's "hora legalis," you can think it, you can say it like you did here yesterday when you were talking about all sorts of things, not to say anything. When we Members were leaving this house, those same young people you had dumped before here in this room, they were looking at us with fascists. So that's the value orientation today. That's what today is, I'd say, the dominant pattern in this country. Parents aren't the only ones raising. Parents are the first educators, but we're all raising a lot of time together. More than parents, children survive in schools today. But this school has been taken away from it by many under Minister Gabro. Different rules have been written, students know what their rights are. It must be announced in advance when it will be asked, almost questions need to be asked in advance. If he gets a bad grade, he has to defend himself in front of the teacher who did it in front of the principals, in front of his parents, and more. So, I just hope that at this time we'll do something about it. Mrs Potrata, please, I did not tell you to lie, so you also maintain the various qualifications you are wasting. See, with what happened before this Lipa bar, this is something that needs to be responded to in this country. Although I have never seen one report about the age of the youth who was there, I was able to read about the age of those victims who had suffered. And if at least from that, I'd say there was a lot of these young people under 16 years old. Today, we all know that before they go to the disco, young people are ready for this at home. I'm not going to explain how they're getting ready, because we all have teenagers, and we can see them. And if at least something in this direction is done that young people won't be able to show up at bars after 24 hours, then we've done a lot. That is why Nova Slovenije was also a co-proposer of this amendment. But the discs won't open at 11:00 p.m. and by late morning hours, let the discs for this category of young people, I don't know - open early. You're saying that young people can meet and enjoy alcohol before they do. Of course you can, but we in Styrian are told that night has its power. Everything like this happens the most and most often at night. We hope that this law will help parents, because many times parents are victims of their children, because they are simply because of their peers and the same opinion in their society, where they are moving, actually put them before the fact, I have to go or it will be that and that. So that's one way for your parents to say, "You know what, you can go, but you only have to be home at midnight because you're so old." So you can't be in a bar where alcohol is flowing and we've somehow secured it, so let's make it a chain of some kind. Just like our colleague Rezman used to say. I don't know where there's anything in this marriage about chains. But I understand that, for example, our grandparents would want to do their best and help them in various ways. But I don't know if it would be by defending in the way that Mr Rezman, Member of the DeSUS, did, if that's how they're helped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u53	Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor. You're giving up. Representative of the government, would you like a word? Please. Would you like a word, perhaps? No, thank you. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 21.6.2006. I am putting to the debate Article 21 and the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group, the LDS Group's amendment, the DeSUS Group's amendment and the SDS, NSI and SLS amendments. Who wants a word? Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I'll try to be brief. In particular, we have here, as we said, four amendments. The first three amendments actually talk about the same thing. This rude solution that you gave with "horo legalis" is retreating in such a different way out. I hope it is clear that I support this amendment. I support these amendments. Whichever one has already been voted on will be just as good in a marriage where I have a lot of problems. I just want to say a few words about the fourth amendment tabled by three coalition parties. In fact, this further sharpens matters and says that in the inn, it is possible for any person whom we believe does not meet the conditions - by the way, everyone's word is too much to identify her to show her age with a public document on which identities are identified. First of all, it means that the doorkeepers will be able to identify themselves at the entrance. Secondly, who are these gatekeepers, what can these data actually do? Thirdly, they don't meet the conditions to enter the bar. What does that mean? Does this mean: these conditions or any other conditions? What are the conditions for me to have a little fun with? Let's just say that the terms of the wife, what I know, the wife doesn't allow you to enter the bar, you don't meet the conditions, etc. So I already know what I wanted to write, but what they wrote is so lame, if I may say it'll cause a whole bunch of extra problems and problems. After all, this may even follow, I'm surprised that they didn't write it, even a public register of entry into a public register, which is a public document. I don't know what's wrong with you. I really don't know what it is for you to go so far as to have some completely civilian private matters, politics is here, the country is here, people live their lives here, and you're getting into every single thing. You have to think a little bit about not being able to put your finger all over the place, if I may say so. And secondly, it's not "horo legalis." One of the Members mentioned this. I don't know. People aren't stupid. It's not just that we're saying that it's the "hora legalis" of the opposition party. The press is talking, the students are talking. Everyone knows that this is "hora legalis" that what is inside is written by the classic, typical definition of "hora legalis". And don't say it's white, I don't know, purple if it's actually white. They won't believe you. It's impossible to prevent something that's simply not true and everyone else knows it's not true and they know why you're doing it. And at the same time, just one sentence, short. By the way, what's allowed? I forgot to mention it before. Children accompanied by parents. A lot of us, he was one of you, and he's gonna be on some fireman's party. And many of you, or every one of you, including me, have already experienced this and seen it at three o'clock at night, sleepless, drowsy, little weary children who say to their parents, "Daddy, let's go home!" No, wait till I drink this! And this is an escort, a visit to restaurants accompanied by parents, and that's fine. These are the solutions you've made absurd. I've seen a lot of them. These are the solutions you put up for absurdity. Why the absurdity? Because you get involved in things you don't have to get involved in, the state has nothing to do with it. And that's bad, so once again, I suggest you support one of these three amendments. If he didn't like the picture of Majda Shirca in the paper and the pictures of the student demonstrations, I have scissors to cut it out. But given the way you rule, you will also need to cut more and more articles and more pictures in your work, which is increasingly yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u55	Mr. Gaber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll support the additions I've made. The reason may be a little more complex than it seems at first sight. I am aware that the educational issue is a very complex issue, not just in this country. We are not the only country with problems in this area. There are a lot of these problems, and we are only staying with Europe everywhere, all over Europe. What we need to talk about here is how we deal with this. We must not make one mistake, namely, by sowing illusions about how we will solve these issues too easily with legal standards. If we were to talk about how to make more youth centers, if we were to talk about how to increase the responsibility of young people, so that some of these areas could be able to live in it, to find meaning in it, then this would be a real conversation, it would be very complicated, it would not be enough to lie literally that only rights are written in the rules, because, of course, duties are written at least on the same scale. But since it's more difficult than getting into a marriage, that after that and that hour, you can't go into that place, we're running away from it, so let's simplify this problem. Look what we're doing. My friend Gantar used to say he'd be fine now. This is the situation, gentlemen and gentlemen in this country. Where parents can't do it, there are two kinds. Some honestly fail and try and do not know how, and others do not care. One of these fathers had been asked by his son by his mother to bring him from the inn and the only thing you will stop him now is that of course he will be able to go after him or that they will be able to go there together in this inn. If we were consistent, we should say that the children after that hour shouldn't be there at all. That would be logical, for under the guidance of one of the irresponsible parents, being in a very strange society is now permitted by this record. But it's just as bad. I think it's worse than being there alone. But the point is somewhere else. We sow illusions that this law will help parents. No, this law primarily overcomes our responsibility with our own shoulders to move to a provision in a certain section of the law. For we believe that someone in a bar who did not respect the 7th article of another law is a law restricting the use of alcohol, which clearly states: "The sale and supply of alcoholic beverages and beverages to persons under 18 or under 16 is prohibited from pouring alcohol." This same owner of the place, who does not respect this article, will push a person under the age of 16 out of the bar - this implies your law, your article, in case it should work. No, ladies and gentlemen, if it does not take into account Article 7 of the current law, it will not take this new article into account, but why should it. However, if it is taken into account, then there is no need for this new, additional article. Mr Kovacič is right when he says that the state must take over part of its responsibility and establish some prohibitions. But the state has already taken on this responsibility, and this ban is clearly stated here. Now we should assume an important part of our responsibility as parents. That's hard. And with this marriage, we close our eyes. You know that, too. What's gonna happen? After nine o'clock you can't buy anymore - I think after nine - alcoholic drinks [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Yeah, after nine o'clock. Well, there's no way to buy more alcoholic beverages. Now after an hour, you will not be allowed to go to the bar, so you will buy a drink early, and if possible the whole "gifts" will be carried to the parks and to certain places and there will be a joyous cheering. We're putting a problem in the gray zone that we have. My point is simple: the educational problem is very serious; this type of rescue is nothing more than the benevolence of those who support such articles - we wash our hands so that we do not contribute anything to make anything better in this area, but of course there is another fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u57	Mr. Joseph Bajc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I'd start with what my colleague Gaber ended up with when he said it was a mental illness. In part, though, was it not mentalism when adopting and considering the law prohibiting the sale of alcoholic beverages? Wasn't it mind-blowing when it came to banning the sale of tobacco products? And so I wouldn't count another law, for example, the driving test law, when the state passed one year and said why don't we change the law with us, like in America, so that 16-year-olds can do driving exams. The state decided, and she said 18-year-olds will be doing driving tests. Second thing I'd say to my friend Gantar. I don't know where you were when Keber proposed his law, which is still in force and which explanation and justification he used the indiscretions of this fourth amendment to this article at the time. And you said, "Yes, how will the trader control whether someone is 18 or under or over 18 years old?" Or when this law, colleague Gantar, says that a full-year-old is also forbidden to sell an alcoholic drink if he assumes that he will offer it to a minor. I don't know where we were or where you were when these provisions were formed and how it is possible to control these provisions. Third, colleague gaber. I mean, I hope you've been vowed, as you mentioned, but the minors will buy a whole stack of alcoholic beverages nine hours ago. Yes, then, whether we have no law that says that it must not be sold to minors and even to adults, etc.? So it's not a problem of limiting or not limiting. I can personally assess that there is a problem in controlling the implementation of legislation. On a concrete amendment, the fourth amendment, signed by three coalition parties. And that's all. If there's a 5% drop in drunkenness due to this provision. I'm here to support this amendment and support it. Second. By adopting this amendment, we will allow the owner of the restaurant or the organizer of the event, that his waiter, his merchant, his merchant, I don't know who, will not be tempted to break the laws that have been passed once and in this country that are in force. It's not "hora legalis." And if you will remember, colleagues and colleagues, when I reasoned on this law for the first time, in the country and it is up to us that young people - here I agree with my colleague Gabr, that it is necessary to do a lot of other things - will have the same fun at events where alcoholic beverages will not be poured and will take place after 24 hours. That's why I personally don't think it's the classic chora legalis we once had. And if we wanted to come to the student home after ten o'clock, it was possible. At least some used this only after draining pipes from gutters, drain pipes for meteor water. Once again, the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the 4th Amendment to this Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u59	Dr. Gaber's replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I wasn't talking about psychiatry. I was talking about benevolence. That's a very important difference. Wash your hands with something other than mind-blowing. But what we don't understand is that we already have very serious limitations. We don't need new ones. We need mainly the implementation of laws. If instead of following the rules, we are making new and new, then we are not helping to make the situation better.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u61	Mr. Tarchoon has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I think that this is about your insistence, and these provisions are mainly about two things. One is a deep lack of trust in the role of the family. The second is a deep lack of trust for younger generations. There's a really big difference between us. While some would like to get 16-year-olds even to the elections and the National Assembly, others would obviously like to drive these 16-year-olds out of the bars. That's a fact. Even more so, why is such a lack of trust in the role of family and parents, especially when the ruling coalition, which is a fundamental postulate, at least so, claims the family. I wonder because a person always imitates himself: Did your family refuse to believe that you are calling the state for help, even though you are sworn to it at the same time, or what is behind these provisions that you are trying to enforce in every way? While I agree with my colleague Bajec that a mistake has been made in the law restricting the use and advertising of alcoholic beverages, the law of Kebra, as he said, has been made to correct it. And I must say, you've been very helpful in accepting this marriage as a coalition partner at the time. That's something to be said fairly. My colleague Gaber said that I would obviously like to help my parents, and I will not fully agree with him. I think he wants to help the kids, at least you say so, but I think he's mostly hurting them, because the only reason they can go to the bars is with their parents and watch their parents drink there. And I wonder, colleague Sok mentioned Lipa's case, apparently under the impression that these provisions were made, even under the impression of which - what will you do when a private party, when there will be a case in a strictly closed society of minors, which will be just as bad, what will you do then? Hold it, O. K, he canceled the system. We agree with that. We have control services that haven't done everything they need. You're in power now. You have executive power. Do it, fix the mechanisms, not come with such impossible solutions. And at the end of the day, at least minors are under minimal control. There's red tape, there's wheels, there's full-age. There is absolutely no control in the park, in the closed rooms where they will be alone. And what will you do if a case like this happens? Do you realize that you can give a passenger with this law when you walk them into these gray zones to make that happen? Maybe. I hope not. I'll ask you about that sometime. And what my colleague Gantar said, some security guards in some restaurants are going to be checking people's identities now, but they're not just going to check the identity of minors. They will evaluate, so the law says, they will evaluate by appearance. Perhaps one youth will make it appear that he is not yet of age, and they will also identify full - time citizens. So, this is a new field of interference with some human rights. Everything you do is completely confused with common sense. I'm sure it won't help anything you want. But why do you take the role of the family you swear to, and answer it yourself?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. I would tell my colleague Terchoon that he must have walked more around the world and let him see how other countries are doing it and regulating it. In the analysis prepared by the professional services of this National Assembly and available on the website of the National Assembly, please read it. Most countries have, I apologize to this term, "other than that," Even after nine o'clock, they don't even allow 18 years of age. One country even has a provision to allow 21-year-olds to go to bars after 24 hours. You'll come to a hotel in Sweden. The waiter, if he looks like he'll ask you for a document to prove you're old enough to serve you a table, even at nine o'clock in the evening.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u65	Mr. Drago Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u66	I must say that I am saddened by this debate that is taking place here today. I feel like we just don't want to listen to each other. I don't know, do you really think that you're just saying that you don't understand the purpose of our proposal to restrict minors under the age of 16 to the entrance after 24 hours to liquor stores? Do you really think our proposal is not well-meaning? I just really can't understand this thing. And I will say this, even if there is only one case in Slovenia that will be prevented under this law, one injury, one not to say death, does not require death. Mr Terchoon's debate on the family's mistrust was very surprising. I have a lot of faith in the role of the family. Where the family is as it should be when parents play their part, there is no need to adopt such a law with such restrictions. But unfortunately, the situation in Slovenia is different. The role of the family is changing. There's less and less orderly families. Unfortunately, there are more and more families with different kinds of things, from violence to alcoholism and so on. Such an article can also help those orderly families. Why would it be such a disaster if we accepted it, if it could only be of help? I say he may not bear fruit, but it's a shame, but I'm sure he won't. There are families that are disorderly, where children are those minors who are the heads of the family. I'll tell you one case. In my daughter's class years ago, four, five years ago, seven, eighth grade. One person caused so much heartburn in the class that they could not control it, not the entire teacher’s assembly, not the principals. Unfortunately, a lot of these negative things happen to be very attractive and simply impossible to control. That's why I would say, I don't see the real opposition to this article, which in itself, I'm sure, brings nothing bad. Maybe he won't bring any good, even though I'm sure he can help a lot of people. That's what you said, because we already have this article. It is true that we do, you said yourself, not respectable, but perhaps, or at least, a certain case may be more respected on the basis of this article. Maybe, maybe it's just my illusions, my dreams, but the damage will certainly not be.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u67	She has a word, Mrs. Aleš Gulič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u68	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The debate was quite heated. I think it's the right thing to do. But we are talking about fundamental freedoms. We are talking about whether this article of the law is in accordance with the Constitution or is in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Of course not. But there was something else about it. The problem of alcoholism or alcohol policy, which is now expected to focus on children who do not usually drink, who do not walk around at night. I have to tell you that my life, as far as it's concerned, is relatively rich. I went all the way, and I'll tell you, not by the lair, not by the discotheques, not by the age of 14. According to the lairs, the youngest were there from 35 to 40 years old. Twice in my life, I've seen a child come for my father. He was sent by his mother. That's all. Surely such matters are dealt with by family policy and by the national alcohol programme and by such [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Which you don't want to hear about. [[..]] Now I don't know how it is in other places, but in the trumps of those who think they're under the age of 18, they demand a document in the afternoon and at night and don't get a drink. But it is true that sometimes an elder is bribed to go out for a drink and then withdraw to some hidden places. That's how it is. This has to be pursued in some way, not by introducing curfews, choir legalis, curfews, or even by hiring some more hangmans to deal with either children or parents. Therefore, I think that this article of the law is totally out of line and should be deleted. It is certainly necessary to pressure all institutions that must carry out inspections in shops, innhouses and to adhere to the fact that minors in Slovenia are forbidden to sell and pour alcoholic beverages 24 hours a day.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u69	Mr. Starman. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I don't think it's a problem with alcohol and liquor. I think it's problematic to keep young people in terms of accessibility to other things. Most of all, there are questionable drugs here. In these years, in these young years, young people are very susceptible to the so-called bad examples and opportunities that take place in the localities themselves. Above all, the drink is the heating up for the second stage where the use of drugs begins. I think that there is no law and I myself have been able to see for myself in a few cases when I appeared very late in the evening in the drive and I found that in the disc most people under 16 years of age were very much drugged by various drugs, mostly by a variety of lighter and heavier drugs. We just close our eyes here. We don't do enough. I think that a law that would at least prevent the presence of these places in these late night hours cannot harm very young people. I think they're drawing examples. It is right to make one such restriction, and this will probably save a number of lives of young people. A lot happens, there are many cases where, just on such occasions, they get on the sidelines, they become addicted to a variety of drugs, and then their lives are ruined, and their therapy is probably very difficult, long-term and very poorly effective. I think we're closing our eyes before how many young people go down these paths. If this were to solve at least a few cases, this prevention during these night hours of access to these sites, where it is likely that these substances can be obtained, is very large, much larger than anywhere else. Of course, I don't think we should do more to prevent the sale of drugs and all that, but we do know what the laws are here. Drug use is not prohibited. But there's a ban on shopping. We know that this matter is so routinely arranged that the police or anyone, the body, have very little opportunity in these matters, in these small businesses that are taking place. That is why I will not support this amendment and agree with the original proposal. I think this will at least have a minor impact on the possibility that the exits on the side roads will be reduced. I hope this will contribute to a better perspective for our young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u71	Mr. Rudi Veršnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll say the extra head doesn't hurt. We have heard this a number of times in this House. I understand that we want to help those parents who simply do not control their children anymore. That's what parents are like. I myself know some such cases that simply because of their overcrowding, because of their overinvolvement in the service - we all know what pressures they have in the service - have come to the point that they have neglected their children too much, that they no longer have real contact with their children. So they simply came to the point that they no longer control their children. And by doing so, we just want to help parents have something that they can refer to so that they can prevent their children from moving in inappropriate hours in inappropriate places. Look, kids are very susceptible to all kinds of things that happen around them. They want adventure, they want some experiments that can have a bad effect on them, and as a result, they lead to their demise, instead of their rise and their goal in life. I'm sure we won't do any harm, not to children or to parents. But we can stop it. And if we stop at least one case, and I'm sure we'll do more, we'll do a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u73	Mr. Joseph Bajc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u74	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Dr. Gantar, had previously warned me about how and what it would be like to read some of the provisions of Article 26 of the Spanish Law on the Protection of Public Security, adopted in 1992 and supplemented in 1999, which states: "The infringements of public security also include allowing minors to enter public buildings or to the venues where this is prohibited, and selling or serving alcoholic beverages at these events or venues. It is also prohibited to enter discotheques and bars for minors under 18 years of age, subject to local regulations. Anyone who allows a minor to enter a discotheque, bar, club or similar facilities, as already mentioned, constitutes an offence and, in particular, in Barcelona, can be said to allow the entry of 60,000 euros in fines. Second, there is a similar situation in France. The Public Health Act provides that minors under the age of 16 who are not accompanied by parents, caregivers or persons over the age of 18 who are responsible for these minors are not entitled to enter in the inn where alcoholic beverages are held. With regard to penalties for offences committed in connection with the possibility of entry into these premises, penalties of up to EUR 3,000 are imposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u75	Dr. Gantar, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u76	I'm grateful to Mr. Bajc for saying that. What did he tell us? He simply told us that national state rules do not regulate this in a global universal way in Spain and elsewhere. To leave this to local authorities, specific regulations for individual types of restaurants and so on. Look at the Spanish bars at night, and you'll see who's in there and with or without parents. So what you've said is no derogation, what I've just said is a derogation from some non-life article that prohibits all these things on a global scale. That's bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u78	Thank you very much. With regard to this article, and with this solution, which came into law the last time, I had previously warned in my debate that there had also been qualifications in the media for the curfew, the introduction of a curfew. I'm glad my colleague Gulic used the curfew again earlier. At least now I know from where such qualifications are unheard of. And I'm not surprised, in fact, that the state of freedom in Slovenia, a colleague of the Liberal Democracy, after 15 years of democracy is still being talked about as they actually had a relationship with the independent Slovenian state 15 years ago. In those days, we were able to watch the journals of that time, and there was much to see. And it would be useful if colleagues, if they faced their views, were to take the views of their customers back then, and in fact, I am very sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u79	Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, we are talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u80	This is due to the fact that the curfew was mentioned by colleague Gulic. If they had never attacked a police watch in a former non-democratic totalitarian country, they had sometimes been publicly or secretly introduced. And now to bet the Slovenian state and democratically adopted an article in the law, which was introduced into the law by the virtually general agreement of the Slovenian public and characterized as the introduction of a curfew in Slovenia, is something unheard of. This is an attack on the Slovenian state, on the state of democracy in Slovenia. I'm asking my colleagues not to provoke them this way and not work this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u81	Mr. Christian Janc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Chairman. As I had originally anticipated, today there will be a lively debate on this issue on these amendments. It is also right that we hold this debate in the National Assembly and convince each other who is more right and who is less right. But finally, like I said, for most kids, for most parents, most families, it's not going to be an action at all, it's not going to be an article,
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u83	I'd like to ask nicely!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u84	which would have any effect on that. [[...]] Regrettably, some individuals do. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u85	I'd like to ask nicely, Mr. Janc. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u86	Surely, however, this article of this law can help a large number of parents, a child, to support, to help that perhaps at least a few such cases, this measure, if implemented and supervised, can help. That's why it seems to me that there's so much controversy about what we do with young people, how we suppress them, how we limit them, what we don't know. Every normal child at this time of age and between 24:00 and 5 a.m. in the morning, according to my deep belief, without a parent, has nothing to do in a place where they drink, smoke, enjoy this or that and do things that are certainly not educational for such a child’s age. They are not recommended, they are not appropriate. We have too much experience in the environment when young people turn to the sidelines at this time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u87	I'd like to ask nicely! Can I interrupt, please? You have no right to speak. When you're done, we'll move on. Thank you very much, Mr. Anderlich. Here you go, Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u88	Thank you very much. For we have all too much, and statistics speak, young people, who in this sensitive period of life, which is the most difficult, elementary school and entrance to secondary school, turn aside. You lose contact with your parents, your family, your school, etc. And it comes indirectly, directly back to national, and so on and so on. It therefore seems to me that, however this measure solves individual cases, it will certainly be more than effective. This will not shorten any freedom. Everyone's gonna be able to do what they're doing today. He won't be disabled. But we could discuss it. And this is about one of the speakers, whether the number 16 is optimal, or whether it would be better 15. Maybe I don't get to know myself. This should be said more about whether it would be more appropriate for 15 or 16 or even 14. I have certain concerns about that myself. But I'm sure. Again, I would like to point out that many parents and many citizens have welcomed this measure with great pleasure, as a good, positive, well-intentioned, as this society within the European Union and in some ways expected of us. Education, as we all know, and once again, I stress, is the first and foremost concern of parents, was and will be. But believe me, the difference between a family 20 years ago and today is essential; it can be for the better, it can be worse than for whom, it is not good for all. But here we are, living in that time, and it is right to take such steps. It is also right that we view these things differently, that we have different viewpoints, and that is, after all, quite normal. I believe that this step will have more positive effects, and as far as it will be, I think it is successful for society, for parents, and especially for a young, growing child, who leads him to responsibility in his life. As a result of this amendment proposed by the opposition, I cannot support it because I think that the one we have adopted at second reading is very appropriate and fine. That is why I will reaffirm it today, and I will gladly support this law, to the benefit of many who may receive additional support from this measure or this article, the help of society, governments, countries as such in raising our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u89	Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. I would continue my debate where Mr Gulič also presented his experience from youth, when he does not remember meeting minors in the bars. That's what I agree with. Even when I was a teenager myself, I did not wander around, nor do I remember that my generation would then go to restaurants, because the times of 20 or 30 years ago were completely different than they are today. I also support the need to give maximum consideration to and introduce fundamental human rights, as well as to children, while bearing in mind that we must not allow this to grow into any kind of anarchy. In the last 15 years, the introduction of democracy and more freedom has certainly contributed to the fact that we today have significantly more violence in primary schools than we once did in the past. In the New Town we have witnessed in primary school such violence of minors against the teacher that he was even transferred to a hospital, which in my youth has certainly never happened; the authority of teachers was significantly greater than today. We can read many times that there is violence of minors in the streets. We know there's blackmail, there's intimidation, there's even mugging by minors. Who's doing these things? Not all of them, I'm sure. However, certain minors are inclined to do so. This is also often the responsibility of education, but my experience shows that the reason is present in both the area of education and some tendency of the minor. If I now touch this law and these solutions on limiting minors after 12 hours, I am in favour of such a solution. I also talked to some minor children, including mine, who are also underage. No one had any doubts about such a solution. I do not believe that this law will solve this, but I am sure that this law, as some have already found, will do much to help parents. When will he be able to help? We know that some children can be kind of convincing, know their parents in a elegant way, even blackmail, refer to their friends, that why a friend can go and I can't. There will now be a simple solution or an excuse or an answer. My friend won't be able to leave after 12:00 either. Also, his own child won't be able to go. And now I'm just going to end up with my own case, where I've often had the opportunity to see how alcohol is present in minors. As I mentioned, I have underage children. I was repeatedly or not invited, but several times I went to visit my islands to a restaurant, including a discotheque where children always went with my permission or with our permission. When I was there waiting for my children, many times it was necessary to see how young children were half dead drunk. Ecstasy was also present. There were drugs and all kinds of other drugs. By this law, if we disable or at least limit the presence of minors without the presence of parents in discotheques, we will do much to keep the percentage of young people who are primarily interested in drinking or selling such or other means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thank you. Mrs. Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm not going to support this amendment because it's basically breaking this change of law. Also because of the arguments that some of the applicants have had to express this deep distrust of young people, of parents, to allow them to look at drunk parents, to raise them under bridges and so on. It is true that this is happening, we would like these actions to be less and perhaps even because of this law, even in the public opinion, this bill has come across a good reflection, even in its centres where I come from among young people I have not felt any opposition, especially because it is for children, not for young people, for children 12, 13 years old. To speak in this House that these children are able to judge what is good after midnight at a liquor bar. There's no need for these kids to drink alcohol. These children are not able to defend themselves against the abusers, from the drunkards, from those who offer various services. And that's the essence of this law. And there's something else I see who has teenagers I believe that these teenagers don't like to go with their parents, and neither do parents with them, and that's why they might be home. Certainly, we do not want to look for places of hidden parks, bridges, but to find shelter at home, family and I am somehow disappointed at those Members who were teachers, who were teachers, who were defending it or that you didn't find this meaningful. To say that it's good to have a kid in a liquor store after midnight, or that you don't think that's a problem. For the child also has obligations, not just the rights we have heard from Dr. Gabra. And these obligations are that the next day, for example, school, various activities and children who spend the night at night must not have these abilities. And that's why I'm happy to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you. You want a word with the Ministry?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members! At this point, I think I would also like to say our position on these amendments, particularly the fourth amendment by the SDS, New Slovenia and SLS Group to Article 21, namely, the three segments that touch are actually translated over this Article, three, I would say, the basic points. The first paragraph sets out order and protection in catering establishments and events in general. Therefore, the name of the article, as proposed in the second reading and also adopted, does not somehow reflect the integral content of the article, since the protection of minors is subsequently regulated, ranging from paragraphs 2 to 6 of this Article. The revised title, as proposed here in this amendment, will, in our opinion, reflect somehow more the whole content of this article. Since the article assigns the obligation and responsibility of a legal person, a independent entrepreneur of an individual or an individual who carries out an activity on his own, that is to say, that he must not allow access to a restaurant or a place or an event where alcoholic beverages are poured to minors up to 16 years of age or to children between 24 and 5 a.m. without the assistance of parents, guardians and others. Therefore, it must also be possible to identify the age of persons entering the inn or such an event. This fills, according to our assessment, the gap created by the adoption of the amendment to this Article in the second reading, which prescribed sole responsibility for such an infringement, but did not offer an opportunity or define the age of minors in any way. At the same time, I would say that there is a similar arrangement in the Act on the Limitation of the Use of Alcohol. And the last part, to that end, the proposed sanction, which was set out in paragraph 6 of the operating ban for a repetitive 30-day closure of the place, is somehow not in accordance with the offence law as kind of "lex generalis" for this area. Such sanctions are not prescribed by this law and, according to our assessment, they must be deleted, and this amendment also brings these three parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u95	Thank you, Secretary of State, Mr. Zinrajh. We have concluded the debate on the amendments to be decided today in accordance with the meeting's time frame, half an hour after the end of the 19th agenda or at the latest at 19.55 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Period of the day - This is to the defence of the proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Adult Education, the short-term procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation, Dr. Milan Zver, Minister for Education and Sport, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office of the National Assembly. Dear Members! As already mentioned, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Adult Education Act. This is a minor change, so I believe that there is no need for some broader introductory explanation. Perhaps it is only that we want all participants in education to have the optimal opportunity to participate in the education process at all levels. To date, this right has been denied to one small group, to a smaller population of young people not included in any form of active employment policy, nor have they been registered as unemployed persons and, of course, when not included, to many of the rights and entitlements enjoyed by other participants in education. It is a relatively small group, but it is totally unacceptable for a modern society that seeks maximum inclusion, integration, to leave any part of the population of young people and others out of it. Therefore, we propose a relatively simple addition to the law that all participants in adult education who are educated under public programmes, that is to say, all programmes which receive the status of a public programme, the right to health care and compulsory health insurance and, accordingly, some other justifications that are also granted to other participants in education. So it's about eliminating discrimination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u97	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Sam Bevik, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! At its 15th regular session, on 1 June 2006, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Adult Education Act. At its meeting on 12 May 2006, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. The representative of the proposed law stated in the supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposed law seeks to educate adults who are educated under publicly applicable primary, vocational, secondary and higher vocational education programmes and who are not registered or registered as unemployed persons or who are not educated in accordance with the rules on employment and unemployment insurance, to ensure the same social rights as students and students for whom studies are conducted as exceptional studies and are not on a working or registered basis as unemployed persons. The representative of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia expressed support for the proposed law, which provides new opportunities for improving lifelong education systems and incentives, otherwise a well-established adult education system. The representative of the legislative and legal service said that the comments made in their written opinion were taken into account in the amendment tabled by the coalition groups. The members and members of the committee voted in favour of and two votes in favour of the proposed Act, and considered that it brought positive changes to the social status of the specific category of young people, while aligning the upper age limit for the exercise of these rights with the age limit in other areas of education, which despite assurances by the representative of the proposer that the proposed law was in line with the Ministry responsible for health, should be amended by the adoption of the amendment of the Committee. However, some members and members of the committee objected to the law because they felt that the proposed law placed the deprived group in a better position than other study groups. The Committee further adopted the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 3 and its amendment. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Committee has set out the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u99	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u100	Mr President, Minister-in-Charge, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the DeSUS Parliamentary Group, we will support the Government's proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Adult Education Act. In our parliamentary group, we are aware of lifelong education, so we undoubtedly support any change that leads to a positive attitude towards a better Slovenian education structure. On the basis of the findings, our educational structure of the unemployed is quite poor. In last year, only 37% were successfully educated. We are therefore convinced that, in particular, this group, the category, needs to be offered and made possible or provided with such basic knowledge and absorption skills of information that they will be able to easily and meaningfully use them in their future work, both in their everyday lives and in specific circumstances. A major change to the proposed novel is, in our view, to ensure equal economic social rights for all adult participants in the education system, for all publicly recognised levels of education. Thus, the current situation of so-called extraordinary schoolchildren needs to be improved and treated equally with regular ones. The proposed amendment to the Adult Education Act will address the issue of potential adult education participants through publicly applicable programmes for different levels of education in such a way as to ensure equal social rights for both exceptional students and adults. These rights also cover the right to health care from compulsory health insurance, the right to other benefits, transport, scholarships, the exercise of temporary and occasional work through an authorised labour intervention organisation. The novelty of the proposal is also the harmonisation of the law on offences and the related renaming of fines into fines. In the parliamentary group, we believe that this proposal introduces more equitable rights that will allow for the improvement of lifelong education in the system in general and certainly motivate or stimulate adult education and strengthen the state education plan for the unemployed. We are convinced that it introduces positive changes in socio-economic rights, the category of young people, as it eliminates the educational backlog and thus functional illiteracy. Therefore, in our group, we are confident that our support will help us to adopt this novel, which provides equal opportunities for adult education, while at the same time enabling or helping to improve the overall education system, to develop more successfully or to carry out the mission of competent institutions, and not least to enable education for all who want a promising career. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Branko Marinič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished president, distinguished minister with co-worker, colleague and colleague! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the adult education law. Addressing the educational deficit in the adult population is one of the key objectives in the development of adult education in Slovenia. This objective will be achieved through a number of educational and social policy measures, including measures that will encourage adults to participate in education to raise educational levels and alleviate their social distress. Amendments and additions to the Adult Education Act are intended to eliminate the discriminatory situation of participants in adult education who are educated through programmes for obtaining publicly valid education in primary school, lower or secondary vocational, secondary or high school and higher vocational education. The new Act on Adult Education allows adults who are educated or who wish to receive a valid education by means of programmes for obtaining public education in primary school, lower or secondary vocational, secondary or secondary education and higher education and who are not in employment or registered as unemployed persons or who are not in employment or registered as unemployed persons, to have the same social rights as students for whom studies are conducted as exceptional studies and who are not in employment or registered as unemployed persons. So it's the widest and most inconvenient status of the population of this population. These rights will be enforceable until the age of 27. The implementation of the national adult education programme in Slovenia shall be determined by means of an annual programme adopted by the Government. It sets out the educational programmes co-financed by public funds, the extent and type of activities necessary for its implementation, the extent of the resources provided in the State budget and the Ministry responsible for the implementation of the programme. As has already been said, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will also confirm the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the adult education law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! Social Democrats believe that all legislation enabling this is of paramount importance on the way to knowledge society. Although the proposed amendment to the Adult Education Act foresees more extensive amendments to the Adult Education Act 2007. Therefore, the Social Democrats are particularly asked why, after a reduced procedure, accepting a change is only one substantive change in the law, because we believe that the solution that the proposer predicts and thus introduces is not appropriate. In fact, he predicts that he is solving the issue of a small group, some more than 2,000 people are supposed to be resolved by this law. However, the question is whether the data is accurate, even more so because a group of beneficiaries on the parent body has increased because the age has increased by one year. It's just that we don't mind if they regulate the right of health care for this group of people. We also believe that it is very important that no individual is excluded from education and that the state allows access to education at any age, but we believe that this solution is contrary to other government efforts related to measures to activate the unemployed. It is said for people who are neither employed nor unemployed. This group of people is precisely because the group is without status, in a deprived position. To date, it has been able to engage in some programmes, and we therefore believe that a solution should be sought that would not put this group in a better position. The solution, as it is, is that they are less stimulated to seek employment or to engage in regular or extraordinary forms of education. It is a group of people who have emerged for a variety of reasons, from education and very difficult to engage in, so special incentives are needed, but we believe that it would be inappropriate for those unemployed who, due to sanctions, lost the status of unemployed persons to be included previously among active job seekers and then treated as all other active job seekers, that is to say that they will be placed in the group that we discussed yesterday under the Employment and Insurance Act on the case of the unemployed. This would also enable them to join the labour market as soon as possible, and that is the meaning of socially encouraging behaviour. We also believe that it is unacceptable to seek a solution that gives this group the opportunity to provide a means of survival from a student's work. At this point, when other groups of young students are considering how to focus them as much as possible on the activation of the study process, we will introduce a special category or special option for this group, which has not shown special motivation for schooling in one way or another. So these are the fundamental reasons why the Social Democrats do not intend to support this amendment of the law. We believe that a solution should be sought, but that a solution should be sought in the context of the whole reform of the Adult Education Act, and we believe that the country should primarily provide for significantly stronger and stronger sources of funding for this type of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u105	Thank you. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u106	Well, hello, all of you! The new legislation on adult education brings to adult participants who are educated in primary, vocational, secondary and higher vocational education, the right to health insurance, as well as other rights such as transport, scholarship, temporary or occasional work, of course, in accordance with laws and regulations, i.e. meaningfully equal rights to those who are educated under regular procedure, are students and students. It shall apply to those participants who are not in a working relationship or who have been registered as unemployed persons and shall apply until the age of 27. The novel is also in line with the law on offences. In New Slovenia we support the proposed novelties of the law, which bring economic and social rights to adult participants in education, especially because they are unemployed and the necessary means of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected minister with a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the draft amendments to the law following a reduced procedure, with the additions adopted on the Home Committee. The law provides positive incentives, as it aims to equalise the social rights of students for whom studies are carried out as exceptional studies and for adults who are educated through programmes for public education in primary school, lower or secondary vocational, secondary or high school and higher education. So far, they have been in an unequal position because they did not have adequate social security. Participants in adult education who are educated under publicly applicable primary, vocational, secondary and higher vocational education programmes will receive the right to health care from compulsory health insurance and the right to other benefits and rights, such as transport, scholarship, temporary or occasional work through an authorised labour intervention organisation. All those rights will be enforceable until the age of 27, but may not be declared as unemployed or included in an active employment policy. We will support changes in the law in the Slovenian People's Party, as we believe that this amendment improves the system of lifelong education and encourages a well-established adult education system and the necessary alignment of the provisions on offences with the law on offences is being made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u109	Thank you. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the assembly meeting, within half an hour of the end of the 19th item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.55 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. PERFORMANCE OF THE DAY'S LINE - TO DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE LEGISLATION LAW, PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted for consideration by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to this law, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of Rule 134(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Zlatko Jenk, for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u110	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On the basis of the first indent of Article 97 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State took advantage of its opportunity to submit a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on income following a reduced procedure. The Council of State has also tried to influence your decision with a procrastination veto, but we are all aware that the procrastination veto means a practical re-decision on the whole of the law, which is not within our competence to amend individual articles, we have decided to put the bill into procedure. The reasons that led us to this are that the new law actually changes the value system until the regulation, as it increases inequality and social distribution in Slovenia. The introduction of new legal solutions also places tax burdens on us unjustifiably, so that to a lesser extent, the current tax policy is maintained for those social groups that are most vulnerable. In the case of taxation of interest on savings, there may also be one fear or concern that the savers might have slipped into other destinations or that this beautiful Slovenian custom would not continue in terms of saving their savings as it has been so far. Above all, we are concerned that the established solution, which would be small, so-called small people, are unemployed, workers, pensioners, students and students, as well as taxation at the same levels as someone with substantially greater resources. The second part of the proposal also refers to unequal treatment of public officials who perform their functions in a non-professional manner. It's the journals that belong in the income forecast, which we don't think is the right solution. The most controversial and most important part relates to the 50% relief from taxation of the rights enjoyed by denationalising beneficiaries because it is an extremely high amount. This means that at a rate of 6% each year, they would receive approximately 12 billion Slovenian tax tolls by 2016. Otherwise, if you confirm this proposal, it will come into the budget. The financial effects of this law are also evident from the proposal itself, what I have said about them is a significant financial impact, 12 billion means for the Slovenian budget and the relief of Slovenian taxpayers, a great deal. I propose, honourable Members and Members, to propose a law amending and supplementing the law on income support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. Yank. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Starman will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President, Your Honor. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposal of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy that this law is not suitable for further consideration. The Slovenian Democratic Party does not agree with the deletion of Article 71(6), which provides for a partial exemption from the amount of interest on bonds and also does not agree with the proposed solution and amendment of Article 126.b and the deletion of Article 141(2). While we agree with this, we have already proposed setting some threshold for the non-taxable part of the interest. We hope that this matter will also be properly regulated in subsequent amendments to the law. I think that the non-taxable part of about 1,000 euros is an appropriate basis. However, there is plenty of time for this, and for 2006 the non-taxable part of the interest is 300,000 tolars, for 2007 150 thousand tolars, and from 2008 onwards all the interest is taxed. However, we believe that all revenues are necessary, both from interest and dividends, to be treated the same way, so that there are no differences and we propose, of course, and we will insist in the next phase that any threshold of relief is taken into account for all types of income, both interest and dividend income. We believe that this is wise to make it significantly easier and less manage to collect income and that this has also been introduced into a number of European countries. We also do not agree with the proposed amendment to Article 29, paragraph 4, of the current law, which would exempt diaries received by public officials performing functions in a non-professional manner from taxation. Those who are not in regular service are in a different contractual relationship, but cannot account for the daily allowance as a real cost. Once again, the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposal of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u113	Thank you. Mag. Milan M. Cvikl will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u114	Mr President, honourable speakers, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Liberal Democracy, we will oppose this proposal for a decision. We believe that the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act is appropriate for further consideration. We believe that by creating appropriate amendments, the law could achieve what is the key objective of the applicants. And it is to equalize those who have a lot, those who have received tens of millions of Euros of Slovenian taxpayers' bonds with those who have little or almost nothing. In 2005, the government of Janša and Mr Bajuk introduced much inequality between recipients or the richer and poorer in Slovenia, with the so-called correction of tax reform. It allowed only half to be taxed on the denationalisation of interest and, for every citizen, a citizen to impose the taxation of interest. We do not understand why you are opposed to allowing 1,000 euros of interest in Slovenia, as in Germany, on a proposal from the State Council. In Germany, this exemption is 1,370, in Belgium 1,250, in Slovenia on the date of the introduction of the euro, only 150,000 tolars. As of 1 January 2008, as in the current regulation, everyone will pay €1 per 5 interest. We do not understand why the government wants to subsidise the richest by first proposing in the law that the full interest and denationalisation bonds should be excluded from taxation, but then a compromise was adopted to ensure that these interest rates are taxed in half. And when, on the one hand, the government wants to subsidise the richest, when it introduced a cedular tax on capital gains, the same government decided to tax everyone. Of course, the problem cannot be solved as the gentleman says before me, that this will be resolved somewhere in the future changes in income legislation. The problem is that we tell Slovenian savers and savers that now that we have driven the owners out of Slovenian banks, we are also driving the savers from Slovenian banks. This is what you yourself wanted to fix last November with the amendment, and this same content is being proposed by the State Council today. Is it wrong that this was suggested by the State Council? Or, however, by a clear decision of the national assembly to support that the law is suitable for further consideration by setting up appropriate amendments, they would provide an appropriate amount of tax exemption for all citizens and citizens, and in particular for those who save small sums and will therefore have to start paying for it. Let me just tell you that today, in all Slovenian banks, we need to fix computer programs in order to start paying interest for all of them, or that, as stated on 1 January 2008, we will pay EUR 1 per 5 interest to Mr Bajuk or Mr Janša. We do not understand such policies, so we will oppose the decision of the parent labour body. The law is suitable for further consideration, and we believe that it would apply, as has been the case so far, to introduce a tax threshold for non-payment of interest for the majority of citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr Franc Horvat will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A distinguished representative of the Council of State, a respected colleague and colleague! In the Social Democrats Group, we oppose the proposal for a decision proposed by the mother labour body that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act is not suitable for further consideration. According to our assessment, it would be more appropriate to consider the draft law in a second reading and, to a large extent, to supplement it in individual proposed provisions or articles with amendments where there are arguments for it. The fact is that the law in force has some weaknesses that should be addressed as soon as possible, since the comprehensive amendment of the law or the new income law envisaged and announced by the government will obviously not be adopted for at least half a year. Some of the weaknesses of the current law have also been pointed out by the Social Democrats when they adopt it, but the proposed amendments have not been adopted. At least part of these weaknesses are trying to solve the proposed law. Let me just point out some. The current law, with some solutions, increases inequality and social distribution in Slovenia. Article 2 of the draft law thus eliminates the privileged position of denationalising beneficiaries who, after the law currently in force, are exempt from or are subject to 50% of the exemption. It also applies to possible heirs. We proposed deleting such a solution at the time of the adoption of the law, but the amendment was not adopted. The proposed solution would ensure equality of citizens. Interest on this title amounts to around 12 billion tolars annually, so the current solution means, on the one hand, that the budget revenue is out of date and, on the other hand, that other taxpayers have to pay the difference. The current solution regarding the amount of the untaxed part of the interest does not encourage savings. Some EU Member States, e.g. Belgium and Germany, as already mentioned, have a significantly higher amount of interest in the permanent tax exemption deposit. Some of the new members, such as Estonia, who often like to set an example, and Lithuania does not tax deposits. The current system does not promote savings and in particular affects small savings that are of existential importance, young people, young families, older people, pensioners, etc. Other changes that would be more equitable to individuals and also useful to the national economy would probably be necessary or useful, so we suggest that the National Assembly does not adopt the proposed decision and that it carry out its consideration of the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A nice welcome to the representative of the Council of State, Members and Members of Parliament. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a decision of the parent working body. The solutions proposed are now contrary to the rules in force and are systematically unacceptable. In 2005, the National Assembly confirmed the amendments and additions to the income legislation, by which we tried at least partially to remedy the shortcomings of the law adopted in 2004. Because of the multitude of those who are aware of the law, the income law should be more simple, transparent and comprehensible than any other law. This could not be achieved by some intervention, as due to the stability of public finances, we could not afford more radical changes. Healthy economic and financial policies, which were the basis for convergence, will be the basis for a new tax reform. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the reform will also be answered with appropriate answers to today's proposed changes. This is an additional reason why we will not support the proposal in our Group. In 2005, we introduced the amendments to the Income Act in a cedular way, which is an exemption from the taxation of capital revenues from the progressive scale. Cedular taxation is the only meaningful solution for a country that wants to guide the appropriateness of the tax collection strategy. In the case of income, taxation of capital income has been highlighted in the past. These were taxed to the extent that capital fled Slovenia in 2004 because capital mobility is extremely easy. Due to the introduction of cedularity, interest on nutrition deposits is taxed uniformly in 2005 15%, irrespective of the amount of income of the individual debtor. In doing so, the applicable income law stipulated that you should pay the income at an amount which depends on the income achieved in the current year. Given that the lowest amount of the income scale is taxed at a 16% tax rate, the poorest would also pay higher interest taxes than the current law. They are also socially weaker in a better situation than they were under the 2004 law. The current law seeks to be neutral, that is, one that will not affect the decision of the debtors on the form of investment. The proposed amendments, namely the establishment of a permanent relief, make such a purpose impossible, regardless of its height. For this reason, we will not support the proposed change in the New Slovenia Group. In the New Slovenia Group, we also advocate that too slow and incomplete denationalisation be completed as soon as possible, as there is considerable economic damage in this area. As prescribed by the law on denationalisation, we are also working to return to nature in Novi Slovenija. Where that is not possible, compensation should be paid. In this case, according to the law, the State issues bonds for which the interest rate is 6%. The current arrangement for denationalising beneficiaries to pay an income of 50% of the interest on bonds is a compromise. The basic proposal was that the denationalisation beneficiaries should not be taxed on the interest paid. This is how we are now returning to them at the same time, which they have long been entitled to, but at the same time, we are demanding that part of this be reimbursed in the form of taxes. Therefore, the Members of New Slovenia will not support the amendments and the amendment of the law in this work as well as in its entirety.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u120	Mr. President, thank you very much. The distinguished representative of the Council of State, colleagues and colleagues. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will also not support the law under consideration and we will support the position or conclusion of the national working body. Let me base this on our decision. Like some of the predecessors, we also say in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that part of the actual daily costs is not for non-professional officials and therefore are subject to taxation. With regard to Article 2, which states that the sixth point of Article 71 should be deleted, that is to say, 50% of the exemption from interest on the amounts issued by the Slovenian Indemnity Fund or the Slovenian Indemnity Society to the denationalising justifyers, to add my thoughts or thoughts to the Members of the Slovenian People's Party and to continue the thought of my predecessor. It's interest and it's interference with the marriage that should have been, I'll say, entirely over the years, years and years, but at least for almost 15 years. The Act on Denationalisation was passed in 1991 and is not yet completed today. It's about hurting people, people who couldn't get their property back in nature. This is an agreement between the State and the denationalisation beneficiaries for property that was not able to be returned in nature, either that it is part of public infrastructure, or that the State has sold it and is now owned by natural persons, then it has been stated and written down in the law that these denationalising beneficiaries, in so far as they agree and do not require other substitute land, which I think is better for the country, have accepted the Slovenian Compensation Society's or Slovenian Compensation Fund's bonds, and it has also been written in this law that they own 6% of the interest rates. I personally estimate that even this provision, which says that 50% of these interest is taxed if it is not constitutionally disputed, given that we have infringed on some of the rights already acquired. 10 years ago, for example, when a decision was made to recognise a certain amount of compensation in the bonds of the Slovenian Compensation Society or the Slovenian Compensation Fund was legally binding. With regard to Article 3, which refers to the deletion or substitution of number 300 to 240, we find it completely incomprehensible why to interfere with it with 300,000 tolars, says this joint, at 240. Fourthly, with regard to Article 4, which states that the second paragraph is deleted, which states that in 2000 300,000 interest is not taxed, after 2007 at 150,000 and after 1.1.2008 at full. We also believe in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group that these partial solutions and the 2004 amendment of the law are sufficient. We've had four amendments to this law. And as my colleague the predecessor has mentioned so far, sorry, in the marriage that was passed in 2004, they were practically, in the notes, completely taxed. Now we have said some transitional period 2006-2007, which is progressively said in the first year 300,000, then 150, and we expect that, until the full functioning of this, when we are supposed to pay the full interest, it is true from every tolar and also from every real colleague of the Squeak of EUR 5 euro 1 to change the law, and that we will also allow our citizens to save money in banks established in Slovenia or in EU countries and not do what was done in 2004 to carry their capital to the Cayman Islands, not subject to the obligations and provisions of the 2004 Income Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u122	Your Honors are here! According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, it is not right for the National Assembly to avoid speaking in connection with the fiscal system or with tax burdens on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It is not right to avoid those exclusive powers of our country that will remain in the domain of national law after 1.1.2007. So, what we're saying is that if we lose power over monetary policy, power over fiscal policy will still be in our hands. Therefore, it is all the more incomprehensible to conclude a parent's working body and to support those parliamentary groups that avoid talking about the tax burdens of our citizens and citizens. According to our assessment, it would make sense to vote against the position or decision of the parent working body and to allow for further discussion on the unequal situation of individual entities within our society. Identifying and taxing only one layer, i.e. denationalising beneficiaries, in the form of their eligible or unjustifiable remuneration, i.e. in the context of bonds, is unacceptable to the rest of the work of citizens and citizens who are subject to their capital or, say, financial transactions in individual institutions. According to our assessment, the debate on this should take place both within the legislative branch of government, i.e. the National Assembly and within the executive branch of government. It is not right and it is not fair for a certain proportion of people, entities or even a group to relieve the tax burden on the income of denationalisation, while each other's citizen and citizen must pay for this loss of income. From this title and above all from the revenue of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which clearly indicates the structure of public finances in our country, which is unfortunately extremely negative, because if we look at this structure, we will see that over 93% of all budget revenues consist of tax revenues, i.e. those sources of revenue owed to us by individuals in a physical or legal way, and where they do not pay, are subject to criminal sanctions. Exclusion from this and thus additional tax burden that majority part of Slovenk and Slovenes, in return for those something or a group of people in the area of denationalisation, is simply not fair. From this title, we will oppose the decision of the parent working body. And from this title, I appeal to you, honourable Members and Members, to allow for further discussion, and in particular to enable such a tax system, which will not be in exchange for denationalising beneficiaries, as is currently in force, to additionally burden that large part of Slovenia and the Slovenians, in particular and exclusively those who are not denationalising beneficiaries. If you support the decision of the parent working body and thereby prevent further discussion on the Income Act, then you have joined a selective tax policy in the area of personal or personal taxes resulting from the denationalisation tax, and that is not right. In the national party, we will vote against the position of the parent working body and thus try to support the debate on tax equality between citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will postpone the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u124	Thank you very much. When we adopted tax legislation or its amendments, we had a number of serious concerns in our parliamentary group, namely the DeSUS Group, we believe. Some of us even managed to convince the coalition partners back then that they were in solidarity with our concerns. It was essentially what the state council is now proposing with the bill. And since we had concerns at the time, we also have them today, and we are not used to sharing them for some legitimate reason. We are confident that there has already been an agreement between all of us, particularly on one important proposal, in the proposal to pay interest on deposits, so to speak, in the National Assembly. That is why, we must repeat this and possibly repeat it several times, and we have also prepared the amendment proposal, signed it, and tried to file it, until, of course, the procedure prevented us. But at the time, we agreed with the content that a tax relief should be provided for interest on interest on applications for all citizens, without this phase-out. There is no particular reason for us to think otherwise today, so of course we also do not support the proposal of the parent working body and we will oppose it. We have already pointed out that by amending tax legislation, in fact, there is a very clear process that speaks about how the vast crowd of Slovenes and Slovenians will be more taxed in the future and how some small group of those who have significantly more who might even be told that they are rich, new reliefs and that they contribute significantly less than before. We do not think that they should be burdened as previously proposed and enforced, but we believe that these limits are even a little higher in burdening the rich than the new tax legislation has imposed. We feel that it is right to encourage saving. We do this at different levels, already in children when they are born, we try to get many of them to talk about whether we are opening feeding libraries and parents and relatives and congregations and banks are putting their first roles at the expense of many, older, elderly people who do not want to burden younger ones with their moving out of active life, while keeping their contributions to many young students, for example, trying to save themselves something to get to know the world so that they can study abroad so that they can possibly contribute to the purchase of the first apartment. We feel that they should be helped to do so. In particular, now that we are devoting them to being extremely flexible, and with regard to jobs and not having regular and indeterminate jobs, let us allow them to save something for social security, for the moment when this social security is threatened. And something in support of these purposes would certainly contribute to the adoption of the law, as proposed by the Council of State. We do not support the proposal adopted by the mother labour body, we support the proposal to continue the debate and we mention that we have already begun to prepare a similar law and it is only to help us with the preparation of the Council of State. However, we judge just as many others do that we do not have to accept the rule that speaks of the diaries. So we will vote against the decision of the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u125	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the draft decision will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 19th item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.55. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Dr. Jure Zupan, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u126	Your Honor! You have before you a bill amending the Higher Education Act, which foresees four amendments that I would like to briefly discuss. The first amendment touches on single study programmes, namely that the amendment allows for a single study programme of five plus nothing only in cases where this is provided for by a specific regulation outside of this, it is said that this is not automatically left to colleges or individual universities or I intend to decide for myself when five plus nothing can be decided. However, it must be a special decision for this to be followed by a special state interest. Such arrangements are known practically in all countries and have, in addition to European regulated studies, the right of most countries to regulate certain professions in this direction. The second amendment in Article 10 touches on the State’s commitment to finance all five years of study, i.e. three years at the first Bologna level and two years at the second Bologna level, which is a change from the previous law, which provided that the State financed only the first four years. Then comes a greater change, where we define the new powers of the higher education world, which in three bodies, i.e. the accreditation Senate, the evaluation, the habilitation, we give the accreditation powers that it had before, the habilitation that we can extend because it now has the opportunity to make an independent commission outside universities. This is particularly true that this does not violate the autonomy of universities, because the validity is reserved or the recognition of individual habilitation outside the university under the authority of the university, so the university can itself say that it is governed by certain rules and is subject to this habilitation that someone receives through this world only if he establishes something of his or something else, which goes on again over the accreditation body. This should be emphasized in particular. As for the evaluation competence that the world is now gaining in a new way, this is an appropriate solution for our country. Here we have used a solution that combines all three functions, including accreditation and evaluation, and it does this independent body, which is more independent in its composition than in previous compositions, because we explicitly set out that there are experts, not representatives of higher education institutions. Then there is Article 15, which regulates the level of education between the old titles obtained prior to the acceptance of Bologna titles and those obtained by Bologna titles. This should be emphasized in particular by the fact that the titles as they were remain as they were obtained. Whoever got the name by the old programs, that name of the store, and whoever got the name by the new programs, that's the name of the store. It is the level of education, the level of education, which means only formal classification. If I say as a comparison, if someone has been working at the Valdorf primary school or according to the curriculum of a normal primary school, it is still the level of education at the primary school. It is clear, however, that the contents are different. This is a level of education. In fact, we have classified three levels because it is a higher education system, namely the sixth, seventh and eighth, which corresponds to the new Bologna I system, II. Bologna and III. the Bologna level, in the old title, is the level, if we are now talking about levels of education. The level of first Bologna education is in the sixth level, the level of second Bologna is in the seventh level and third Bologna education is in the eighth level. According to the old names, there are higher schools, higher schools, higher vocational schools and former I-grades in the sixth level, II. The university diploma and the second Bologna are in the seventh level, at the eighth level there is a master's degree and a doctorate. So much for this for a little while. I think I've said the essence of all the changes that are in this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u127	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudolf Mojet, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u128	Dear Mr President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! In an extensive debate on the bill, too, Minister Jure Zupan first explained these objectives, to which the law is difficult, so allow me not to repeat them. After that, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service referred to the dispute between the provisions of Articles 4, 5 and 7 governing the status and competence of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education. As the new law extends the powers of the world, he pointed out that both in the constitution and in the laws in this area, in particular in the Law on State Administration, there is no constitutional or legal basis under which this Council could be regarded as anything other than the Government's expert and advisory council. The representative of the Council of State then said that the Council did not support the extension of the powers of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education, where the world could thus intervene indirectly in the autonomy of universities. However, the provision on the comparability of the level of education is supported by the State Council. The Rector of the University of Ljubljana, Dr. Andrej Kocjančič, considered that it meant any regulation of a single study and the interference of the authorities in professional matters with the autonomy of the university. The Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education must have an independent, independent, professional service, which will not be subordinated to the Minister, but to the President of the Council. The Council should, however, have the position of a single and direct budgetary user. In order to harmonise the educational level through old and new programmes, the government is expected to set up an expert working group that will propose an appropriate solution in line with the national programme. The Rector of the University of Maribor, Dr. Ivan Rožman, supported Article 15 on the comparability of education through old and new study programmes. It does not merely agree with the provision in this Article that the level of education obtained under the current specialisation study programmes would correspond to the level of education obtained under the third-degree study programmes referred to in Article 33 of the Law, i.e. doctoral education. The Rector of the University of Primorsk, Dr Lucija Čok, felt that the proposed law violated the autonomy of universities and the partnership between the state and users of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education must be independent in order to give credibility to higher education. The proposed comparability of acquired education according to old and new study programmes is not appropriate. The representative of the Slovenian Student Organisation proposes that the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education should be established on the basis of the Law on Public Agencies, in order to enable its independence and independence from the Government and the Ministry. A more important part of the debate relates to Articles 4, 5, 6 and 7, which defines the establishment and tasks of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education and accreditation, evaluation and habilitation, elected by the Council. The representatives of the two universities of students and Mr Slavko Gaber mentioned in this article that, following the proposed decision-making arrangements in the system within the Agency, he already has a proposal to carry out the professional, organisational and administrative tasks of the Council within the Ministry but does not guarantee the independence of this service. With regard to Article 15, which defines the comparability of the education obtained under the previous study programmes with the level of education under the new study programmes, the discussion said, inter alia, that the proposed solution could harm so far and, above all, future graduates. As you have seen, in the diametrically different opinions on the resolution of the law, the Committee has only completed the bill with amendments to the coalition, which have largely covered only the shortcomings of the law to which the legislative and legal service has pointed, and the Committee is proposing to the National Assembly to adopt it accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u129	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Slavko Gaber will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u130	Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! This week, it seems to us that we are destined to continue to deal with important but uncoordinated laws. After a long hesitation and after internal coalition divisiveness, the Minister brought to Parliament a law that is not harmonised even in the coalition. This does not bother us in particular, but we are deeply disturbed by the fact that we are adopting a law that is opposed to by the University of Ljubljana, Koper, Maribor, and this law is opposed to the world for higher education, the Chamber of Commerce, student organisations and there would be those who do not agree with the solutions enshrined in the law that we will be considering today. I think that Slovenia is becoming a unique European country. The adoption of laws in such a sensitive area as higher education, with such a degree of disagreement of all key actors, is something for which it is difficult to find a comparison anywhere, and Slovenia certainly does not remember such a thing. Why is this marriage so important? First, as the Minister has already mentioned, the issue of identification and quality assurance in the field of higher education. On the other hand, it deals with the issue of accreditation. Moreover, he also deals with issues of habilitation. As important content areas as are regulated by the law in these initial articles - I think that somewhere between 5 and 8, 10 - require agreement in the section. It is difficult to believe the good intentions of regulating this area in the event that universities in turn point out that they are interfering with the powers they are supposed to be, and it is particularly difficult to believe well-intention, even when we have cases of ill-intention in this area, especially in the area of habilitation. The law deals with another specific issue that will in the long term strongly mark the behaviour of this generation, which is sitting in this Parliament today. It works through the entire establishment of evaluations, the values of diplomas obtained through programmes adopted before June 2004 and those to be obtained through programmes that we will tell them in future Bologna programmes. This layout should be able to avoid two. First of all, in order not to devalue acquired education, we should know that people who are now qualified to do a particular job would see that they will have the opportunity to do such work in the future. This is one of the traps that the state needs to be aware of and should be able to solve in the context of setting up a framework or framework for professional qualifications in that country in the context of European qualifications. Another equally great threat, which we have shown to her today is the danger of devalued work done by young generations during their studies. Yesterday we had a full mouth of demands that their task is to study, our task is not to devalue their study efforts, so that we do not lose sight of those who will graduate in the coming decades, and many of them will. We're gonna be a strange country, very strange, if that happens to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u131	Thank you. Magistrate Majda Potrat will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. Social Democrats note that partnership is a good framework for dialogue in which participants can face different perspectives on resolving the most important issues for the country. At times, however, there are differences too deep to reach consensus on certain issues. One such area is clearly the regulation of higher education, with Social Democrats pointing out that there is no law before us that could be said to be in line with all those who are in any way connected with this law. We find it difficult to believe that a significant shift in these differences could be achieved in a short time, and we have also always advocated that the law should be dealt with on a regular basis. We are convinced that it brings negative consequences in higher education in the form that it is now before us. Social Democrats will be opposed to the amendments to the Higher Education Act for the following reasons. Since this is a very sensitive subject with structural and long-term implications, these issues should be addressed with the highest degree of social and political consensus and therefore only a regular procedure in the National Assembly is acceptable for such changes. Even before the law was ripe for parliamentary procedure, it should be in line with universities and student organisations, which cannot be claimed for this proposal. Another time. There is a predominant assessment that legal changes instead of progress are leading to setbacks, as proposals are not development-oriented and do not respond to the challenges ahead of Slovenia's higher education. Thirdly, the evaluation body of the higher education study must be adopted in all the definitions with the highest consent to be able to carry out the tasks that our higher education requires of it. There is too much danger that new higher education institutions and new universities will be formed according to political criteria without the provision of quality material and human resources conditions. If we want Slovenia to offer quality knowledge to the world, we will have to pay the highest attention to the quality of higher education and postgraduate studies, so we must not allow it to become a high school of prey for all those who do not have adequate qualifications and references in order to move on to existing quality institutions. On the contrary, we are convinced by the Social Democrats that existing institutions should be geared towards a new impetus and opening up to the developed world. However, the situation in Slovenian higher education is so acute that it requires the immediate establishment of a quality assurance agency and the initiation of evaluation procedures. The amendment of legislation should not jeopardise the initiation of these procedures, as we must not allow any change of government to be made by the evaluation body, as this could lead to the fact that higher education would not be under the care of external assessors at all, which is unacceptable. Fourth time. The law should provide that the criteria for habilitation in the higher education world are at least as difficult as the most difficult criteria in Slovenian universities, as it would be possible to avoid suspicion of political award of titles. Fifth. We do not see any reason for special emphasis on the possibility of a single master's study, because it is possible under existing legislation, as well as a single doctoral study, without being specifically defined in the existing law and the novel does not foresee it. This brings unnecessary confusion, which we must avoid. To conclude the sixth objection to this law, which is related to Article 15 of the Law. We believe that this is really about classification at the level of education, but there is no consensus on classification, and that both salaries are unsatisfied, both those who have studied according to the programmes in force and those who will graduate from the Bologna programmes. The solution should be consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u133	Thank you. Mag. Franc Capuder will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, dear guests on the balcony! The current amendment to the Higher Education Act brings solutions in four different areas. First, he introduces a one-stage master's degree study, solves the problem of tuition for regular students at the first and second Bologna levels, solves the question of the comparability of titles between old and new study programmes and redefines the duties of the world for higher education and, in particular, expands its tasks. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the solutions to the comparability of titles between old and new study programmes should be resolved already in 2004, when the current law on higher education was adopted. Unfortunately, then, the ruling coalition has not been able to solve this problem. This is why, only today, by amending the law under consideration, we are removing the legal void as regards the relationship between graduates of the current and new study programmes, since the National Assembly must regulate in law everything necessary to enable a diplomat to determine his legal position under the law. This applies in particular to equality in the labour market at home and abroad, but also to the framework for the continuation of studies. These relationships are different in our comparable countries. They are largely regulated by the provisions of the laws on professional titles or designations of degrees in higher education laws and are partly reflected in other regulations or decisions of competent authorities. The provisions provided for in the law do not in any way amount to the equivalence or even equality of programmes, past and new. It only means that the level of education is, therefore, the level of knowledge achieved so far, comparable or corresponding to the level of knowledge in the new higher education system. It is important to preserve the rights acquired for current graduates, both in continuing education and in employment. In New Slovenia, we have always opposed the aspirations of some individuals and institutions that the comparable level of knowledge achieved by current university graduates would be comparable to the level of knowledge achieved at the current first Bologna level. We are confident that the adoption of such a discriminatory solution would affect more than 120,000 university graduates who would be in a subordinate position to graduates at the second Bologna level. According to the trend of the same individuals and institutions, a university graduate should want to compare his level of knowledge achieved with that of another Bologna level, or if he wants to do the same job where the level of knowledge is required at the second Bologna level, go to school for another year. And that's not acceptable to us. Similarly, or comparable to what is regulated in the proposal for this law, I repeat things in neighbouring, comparable European countries. With the solutions proposed in Article 10 of the amendments to this Act, the situation in the field of tuition is significantly improving in view of the current solutions in the law adopted by the previous Government and which did not allow students to study free of charge in all five years. The law currently in force provides that the State shall provide funds in the budget for the implementation of at least four years of study programmes and shall provide funding for a third of students for the conduct of the study in the fifth year. The solutions proposed by the current government are followed by a coalition commitment to pay for all students and students enrolled on a regular basis to complete the first and second rates of Bologna. In New Slovenia we also welcome all other solutions in the law and we will gladly support the changes in the law. Unfortunately, we cannot support the amendments of the Liberal Democracy and the SD. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u135	Thank you. Mag. Janez Kramberger will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Nice greeting also to all present on the balcony. Knowledge is undoubtedly the kind that has and will have an even more decisive impact on the development of Slovenia in the future. We have written in many documents that Slovenia wants to be a state or a knowledge-based society. A good and quality higher education system is key to ensuring quality experts. Today we are changing the basic law in this area. The issue under consideration is all too simple. This is illustrated by the long-standing process of drafting the amendment of the law, as well as by different views on the proposed solutions. There is probably only one absolute support among the four content sets governed by the amendment of the law. This is a provision governing the state funding of the two first stages of the Bologna study. In doing so, we must stress that the existing law has provisions allowing or providing that one year of the second degree of study is paid also in the form of tuition or that it is not financed by public funds. In doing so, we must make it clear that the amendment of the law is about a positive solution, which will also allow students to study free at the first two stages. At the same time, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we point out that this provision is in itself satisfactory, but does not guarantee the increase in the resources that higher education clearly needs. In doing so, we would not like to determine whether additional resources are possible in the form of tuition or closer cooperation with the economy or perhaps in any other way. In the Slovenian People's Party, however, we are no doubt aware that without additional resources, the technical faculty in particular will not be able to make the necessary progress. An important part of the amendment of the law is aimed at redesigning the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education, which assumes new tasks and also receives new responsibilities. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its explanation for the bill, states that after the amendment of the Higher Education Act, the Council will meet the conditions laid down by "Enka", i.e. the Agency for Quality Assurance and Verification. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that we are already very late in changing the quality of higher education, and for this reason we welcome the amendments to the law, but we cannot overlook the fact that there are certain reasonable concerns about the proposed solution to the change in quality, particularly in terms of the independence of the body to carry out. We believe that an independent agency from this point of view would still be a better solution, but we have no intention of not supporting the proposed law because it is an extremely important area in which we are already late. Any change in the existing and established system leads to certain complications. This is seen very clearly in the case of the decision for the new Bologna Grade System study. The implementation of the new study system raised the question of the comparability of old and new study programmes or the level of education acquired. In the Slovenian People's Party parliamentary groups, we agree that old and new programmes cannot be compared with each other, as it is or should be two entirely different concepts of study with different goals, approaches and profiles of graduates, so we wonder why there have been so many complications in this area. The problem, in our view, stems from the assumption that the new Bologna system of study will be better, that employers will give priority to the graduates of the Bologna programmes and that, consequently, the graduates of the old programmes will be in a subordinate position in the labour market. Of course, this is absolutely true; the employer is always interested only in the ability to work individually or in a particular profession. We hope, of course, that the new curricula will be really better and better; in this respect, their priority in employment will in itself be reasonable, and unfortunately we note that many colleges or higher education institutions have not yet embarked in a responsible and correct manner on the reconstruction and design of Bologna programmes. The draft law makes it clear that the proposed provision does not mean the equivalence or even equality of existing and new study programmes, only means that the level of education available so far corresponds to the level of the new higher education system. From this point of view, the legal proposal is acceptable, but some issues and dilemmas need to be clarified, including the issue of specialisation in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u137	Thank you. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. The new law on higher education actually governs what should be essentially regulated by the 2004 Higher Education Act, which then introduced the Bologna Education System under Minister Gabrom. At that time, within the framework of the Slovenian National Party, we wrote and also tabled amendments to the basic law that would essentially address the problem of degradation or irregular status of students, old students, compared to new or Bologna students. All the assurances of the governments of the day have actually gone to the point of regulating this area by the law on professional and scientific titles. After almost two years, what was promised at that time did not happen. Moreover, after the adoption of the law on titles, which regulated the titles only for new, Bologna students, there was a legal void in this area. Is the marriage that is before us today, or is the new law the best possible solution? In any event, certain facts must be taken into account. And the first fact in this context is that we do not yet have comparable titles in the Republic of Slovenia. Since old students do not actually have a legal basis for being comparable to new, Bologna students, in practice they are already in an unequal position compared to the graduates of the other Member States of the European Union. Slovenia also opened its premises in 2004 in terms of employment of foreign labour, under certain conditions; while this is a reduced scope, the principle of reciprocity applies. However, due to the irregular status or titles themselves, a Slovenian diplomat cannot run for, say, seats in the framework of European institutions. In particular, this is happening in practice. In fact, this law is also the basis for the equal position of Slovenian students or diplomats in relation to the rest of the European Union. Here I will mention the osmpic agreement and the fact that this law will, for example, be the same or equal in the mixed areas of education of the Slovenian and Italians. In this respect, the Ministry of Higher Education basically supported our or the proposal of the Slovenian National Party when we drew attention to the unequal position of Slovenian diplomats vis-à-vis Europeans. After the review and comparison with other countries, such as Austria, Germany, Italy, the Czech Republic, Latvia, these countries have a system governed by the proposed amendment of the law. Last but not least, this is allowed by the European Union with its Bologna version. Germany, for example, is based on the principle that no one should be deprived of the title. If we did not properly arrange this in Slovenia, our students could lose their acquired level of education. Once again, I would like to point out that, in principle, we support the solution in the Slovenian National Party, as proposed. However, it needs to be stressed, and it is not negligible that after this proposal the master's degree is most evaluated in the old. It is important that no one is deprived of their education. In particular, once again, Slovenia has become a wider border country by entering the European Union. From this point of view it is also necessary to protect the position of Slovenian jobseekers. So it is not about degradation, as some suggest, but it is only about equal treatment of Slovenian graduates with other European graduates. Once again, in Slovenia, the free movement of labour applies, if the level of vocational education is reduced, then foreigners also have a permanent priority in employment in our country, and this must not be the goal of either the branch of government or the legislator. Let me also recall that the legislative and legal service has already warned in the preliminary hearing of Articles 4, 5 and 7 about the status and competence of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education. The fact is that the proposal is being extended to the extent that this warning has not been taken into account by the Government in the second reading on the home working body, so we will also support the amendments tabled by the Liberal Democrats in the Slovenian National Party in further discussion, not least the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u140	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Secretary! We have a lot of concerns about this marriage, but we will support it, because it does solve most of the things we expected to handle. It is, of course, primarily for a free study at the first two stages. The revised higher education curricula are understood as the necessary reform in each system, and this does not bother us. Of course, it is more important to classify graduates at individual levels of higher education, which can affect their competitiveness in the labour market at home and, of course, abroad. We support solutions that would shorten our study time, which is relatively long. We hope that the different classification of graduates will not harm when someone is looking for work abroad, for example, it could affect the brain's escape, but I am sure that the best ones in this way could not be stopped. We also think that every law is a living matter that changes if necessary, so it is not impossible that, if it turns out that there is no good solution in practice, in a later period after a reduced procedure, let's say we have finished the law, so we are not inclined to criticize much prepared, and therefore we will support the law as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u141	Thank you. Ms Eva Irgl will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. Dear Members. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposal for a new law on higher education. The current bill is the fruit of very precise, in-depth reflections, the fruit of one-year coordination with all subjects in the field of higher education, and also contains useful suggestions for the part of the public that deals in depth with the area of universities and higher education systems. The adoption of the 1999 Bologna Declaration, which provides for the creation of a common higher education space, regulates this area in all countries parties to this declaration. Slovenia, as a small country, must also ensure that the guidelines of the declaration are implemented, as well as the comparability of the diplomas of our study programmes, and thus enable our graduates to compete in the European labour market. The Higher Education Act interferes with an area which is extremely important for the development of the Slovenian state. It touches on the area or, I will say, what is the situation of current young generations who are educated through higher education programmes and have already been changed in line with the Bologna process, as well as those who are educated through the current higher education systems. At the time of the drafting of the law, however, the issue in question had been met with an extraordinary response from the diplomats of higher education and university programmes who had legitimately expressed their interest in a European comparable assessment of the situation of diplomats. Throughout the process, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has been actively involved in the preliminary examination of the law, and we believe that the law or the proposal for a law is a good one in the parliamentary group. The main solutions provided by that law are the appropriate legal basis for establishing a quality assurance system, allowing the financing of the first and second stages of the study, in a way that funds for the first and second stages are provided in the State budget as common funds for the university or the independent higher education institution. In general, the issue of the relationship between the previous and the new Bologna study programmes has raised the most attention in the public. The law in Article 15 removes the legal void as regards the relationship between the previous and the new study programmes. However, it should be pointed out that the provision does not constitute an equivalence, which is most often misinterpreted in the public, but rather means that the level of education that has been obtained so far corresponds to the level in the new higher education system. This solution is important for current diplomats to retain their rights both in continuing education and in employment. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we estimate that it is not possible to achieve a perfectly ideal solution to this problem, mainly because the diversity of the current study programmes is high in this area. For the reputation of Slovenian higher education, however, it is extremely important that there is no devaluation of the level of education of diplomats in the European space. That is why we have always advocated that comparable solutions be taken into account with countries with a similar higher education tradition, if we mention only Austria, Italy, maybe Germany and so on. It is also true that such a solution in no way harms future graduates, as it will also make their diplomas in Europe more appreciated because they come from a country where a high level of knowledge and education is established. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we estimate that it is important for the future functioning of the university and higher education area that the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education is legally defined as an independent body with a high degree of credibility. For this reason, we also agree with the definition of his tasks, powers and decisions which he will thus take independently and impartially. We believe that the amendments proposed by the Liberal Democracy Club, which seek primarily to preserve the previous situation, would make this situation worse and would not ensure the success and quality of the higher education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u143	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be conducted on the basis of a review of the amendments of 22 June 2006. That's what I'm warning you because the exam is new. We are therefore moving on to the consideration of Article 5 and the two amendments. The first was submitted by the LDS Group, the second SD. Who wants to discuss it? Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. For quite a long time, we Social Democrats, with various questions, written and oral, have advocated the establishment of an agency to determine the quality of education in the form that the Minister for Higher Education and Technology believed was also acceptable and advocated in his public appearances, including in international contacts. Unfortunately, the decision later changed and some of the procedures were transferred to the Higher Education Council. As far as my position is concerned, it is the closest amendment of the Liberal Democrats, which simply defines all the tasks of this body in such a form as are now laid down here, that it is the body that decides both on accreditation and on evaluation, as well as on habilitation, that destroys by deleting Article 5 the provisions that are before us in the amended proposal of the law. Since many laws have been passed or dealt with at the home work body, the Social Democrats have come under a great dilemma, or with a law that we find that we are not giving him our support as a whole, but because of the lack of coordination with the partners, they are fully opposed to whether we can agree to submit individual amendments and thus to some extent agree to the cosmetic corrections of what should have been resolved differently at the structural level, so we will, of course, give support to the two amendments, while in the second amendment tabled by the Social Democrats, I would like to stress in particular that our desire was to mention how important external evaluation procedures are, and that if we are aware of the importance of the evaluation procedures, we should trust the body, which would have been completely independent of the Ministry and also of Government as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr. Gaber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Liberal Democracy, we're pretty sure it's the same. If this conversation could be opened, also by the Minister, that the regulation enshrined in the law is more pretentious, it is not least consistent with the very different partners in Slovenia, from economy, through the student organisation to universities, and allows the entire institution of the agency and worlds to carry out this function to a greater extent, which the world must perform. On the one hand, the Council must be a body that assists the government in conceptualizing the development of higher education in the country, and it is obliged to draw attention to such and different solutions that are not in favour of higher education and the country as a whole, Mr President, I am afraid that these articles will need to be discussed in conjunction, otherwise they simply do not work because they represent the whole and also change the whole of these arrangements. Therefore, there is still a legitimate requirement of the Council itself that it wants to have a self-service, not a ministry service, a service that is professionally based on a solution that is, for example, different from the one proposed by the Minister. In this case, in the case of this law, we have exactly this situation. In the case of this law, the Higher Education Council proposes to the Minister to deal with, for example, Article 15 substantially differently. It must therefore have sufficient arguments, so it must have its own professional service, which can prepare for it, which can, of course, provide professional support. What we have before us, however, is a compromise that brings the level of consensus reached under still acceptable, obviously for the partner bodies and, for reasons that are not clear to me, preserves the professional service of the Ministry. Why is that necessary? No, I just don't understand, unless it's the idea that the Council for Higher Education of the Republic of Slovenia will be overseen through a professional service. But if that's the idea, then the idea is wrong. But I would point out that I believe that this supplement should be accepted, because in this way we will allow a cleaner solution; and we will certainly support this complement, which you probably do not doubt in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr. Capuder has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also like to bring the debate together to Articles 5, 6, 7 and 13, because I think they are related and talk about the same content. In our parliamentary group of amendments proposed by the LDS, we will not support them because they preserve the state enshrined in the current law. We are convinced that solutions in this law, in this area, are not effective, but above all they are not rational. Sometimes you have to be rational about this. And that's also why quality doesn't suffer, I'm sure. Of course, we are all aware that we are very late in receiving or in establishing an appropriate body to regulate the quality of higher education. The law currently in force provided for a public agency to ensure the quality of higher education. By amending this law, we will give this role to the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education, to which we extend its tasks. In particular, we are expanding the task in the area of evaluation; the real tasks now carried out by the Higher Education Council were advisory, accreditation and habilitation, and we are also expanding its tasks through evaluation tasks. However, for this part of its operation, at least I am sure, or the criteria necessary for its membership in the 'unit' are already being met here and it is stipulated here what these criteria or conditions must be met by the agency or body responsible for ensuring quality. Let me write some down. It must be formally recognised with the competent national authorities and established on the basis of a legal provision. It must carry out its activities according to the rules adopted. It must have adequately trained workers and sufficient financial support. It must be independent of higher education institutions, ministries and other stakeholders. On the contrary, he must evaluate his work or carry out his mission. It must prepare annual reports and be externally evaluated every five years. And if we look at what it says about the tasks of the higher education council in Article 4 of the amendment of the law. This is how the Government of the Republic of Slovenia establishes the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education as a consultative, accreditation, evaluation and habilitation body of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education shall be independent in the performance of its tasks and decision-making. All decisions shall be taken independently, professionally and impartially. I know that there have been objections on the parental committee, mainly by universities, to why there is an expert service within the Ministry and not a professional service as a service operating within the world or a special professional service. And the main doubts were that the provision of autonomy was possible only if it was an independent professional service. I am convinced that any professional service, if truly professional, can also be independent and autonomous. I think we need to give everyone here who tries to work or who tries to talk about their expertise something to do with their expertise. I am convinced that the expertise of the employees who will work within the body of the Ministry was probably never questionable. Just to illustrate, within the same ministry it also acts as a body in the composition of the metrology office. I've never, or never doubted his expertise. Otherwise, the organ in the system is supposed to serve the world. And why is an independent agency to ensure the quality of higher education, but with its professional body or or this or that body in the body? We're talking about expertise. If I'm talking about expertise, then we're all aware that it's necessary to have as many experts as possible. If we had an independent agency, I am sure that there would be significantly fewer experts in such an agency than there could be experts in the body in the structure where it is, of course. There's money everywhere. Money is linked to the quota of people who are employed either at the agency or in the body in the composition. If it is a body in the composition, it may have significantly less than this technical support and may have significantly more quality experts who decide on the quality problems of higher education. The amendment to Article 5 proposed by the Social Democrats is, in my opinion, already taken into account in the ninth indent. I think it's the second paragraph. So I think it's irrelevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr. Germich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word! Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! When we considered the resolution on the national research and development programme for the period 2006-2007, I devoted considerable time, Mr Minister, to the chapter on institutions as providers of research and development activities and, among other things, a considerable amount of time in the field of universities. And when we wrote down our goals, as the main objective in this area, we wrote that the international reputation of universities in Slovenia should be improved in the future and that at least one of the Slovenian universities should be classified as leading higher education institutions in terms of recognised international evaluations in the wider region. In doing so, we wrote that there should be an example of a comparison of three to seven universities of the top third of the EU's leading countries. Among other things, we have written as one of the very necessary preconditions for the international competitiveness of universities that, according to the complexity and content, the internationally comparable habilitation criteria, which are the best marriage for proactive action and quality enhancement, are internationally comparable. Today, when we talk about the content of Articles 5, 6 and 7, which are very intertwined, it is certainly important to say that the powers that we are transferring to the world through the text of these articles are very important to extend directly to the habilitation area, which we have written as one of the preconditions for achieving the quality of universities in the national research and development programme, while ensuring the competitiveness of Slovenian universities, in particular in the sense that we will be able to direct young people to study programmes that will eventually receive education and will be competitive in the international labour market. As we are now talking about this, the legislative and legal service has made it very clear that, by extending these powers to the Agency, a number of questions are raised through the definition set out under this individual chapter, in what way and to what extent or why we are interfering in this area in the autonomy of universities or other higher education institutions, the opinion of the legislative and legal service clearly states that, in terms of the principle of certainty, as stated in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, there is a vague relationship with the provisions of the law on higher education on electoral titles. Both the determination of the criteria and the election to titles are subject to the rules in force under the powers of the Senate of higher education institutions or of the Senate of Universities. The proposed provision on the powers of the Council as a Habitat Authority, as well as the explanation, does not give rise to the election of which higher education or scientific titles the Council is to be responsible for. If this is to be the individual who asks for it, of course, there is a very wide field of who are the individuals who ask for it to be carried out through the world. This would not only prejudice the current provisions of the law of election into titles, but also in the principle of autonomy of universities and other higher schools, which, under the provision of Article 6 of the Law on Higher Education and Universities, provides for the adoption of criteria for the election and election of higher education teachers, academic workers and higher education staff. Mr Minister, I have also reminded you of the negative practice that has also been carried out as a minister in this government, which, as a member of the university, carried out the habilitation process through a world run by the President as the owner of two higher education institutions. That is, of course, why, Mr Minister, I am surprised that you are not directing any more energy or effort in terms of establishing the minimum common criteria for habilitation that would apply both to universities and to the world. For this is very important, that it should not be based on the provisions of the text of the law which is given to the world in charge, as a habilitating body, that it gives the independent higher education institutions the consent to be elected as a higher education teacher, a scientific worker and a higher education worker, and that it may be those who ask for it. It is therefore in order to fulfil the quality, excellence of the university and to ensure such habilitation procedures, which would create the credibility of the habilitation carried out and the credibility of the award of a title, because it is impossible, Commissioner, that someone named and elected to the title, such as an associate or even a professor, cannot be nominated for national programme content and as the holder of a project. Of course, then the question is whether the text of these articles is not related, to the binding and power of someone who is running the world today, which may be there today, in order to extend the competence of this world for higher education to certain anomalies. Of course, that is why, in the Liberal Democracy, we have drawn up a proposal by an amendment that deletes the text of these Articles 5, 6, 7 precisely in order to cast aside any suspicion that the extension of powers in this area could be misused. Of course, we therefore propose that, Mr Minister, a very intensive approach be taken, following your mandate, to the formulation of general criteria that would be considered as minimum criteria for habilitation, so that there could be no such deviations as I have also mentioned to you as an example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Gaber, you raised your hand earlier. You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u152	Thank you, Mr. President. Talking about what the world should be like, what is the difference between the world and the agency, can be quite an interesting conversation, especially at this point that speaks of professional service. The reason is simple. I understand that the ruling coalition here advocates a solution that it itself has delivered to this national assembly, but the fact is, if this service is supposed to be independent, if this is the job that does business for the world for higher education, then there is no reason why this service is not the service of the world. If I make a very simple case. You guys can always borrow a car next door, or, I don't know, we can borrow horses next door when we're plowing. It's always essential to have your own car. All you need is a key, you light it, and you drive away, and it's better to plow with your horses. The Minister agrees. He knows it would be wise to have a world that would have this job. It would be even better if we had an agency and within the agency this whole logic would be pretentious. Here, I don't know why, go against that logic. Mr Capuder, he simply does not believe that you can talk about the fact that this agency was not rational, that it was not successful or anything like that. This agency hasn't been set up by a minister and this case has been a good part of the year. And talking about the irrationality of an agency you've never set up, it's about having a bad conscience because you haven't, but you should. Maybe the whole structure was too partnered. There were important strengths for students, employers and, of course, higher education institutions. The government had a few less words. More and more it shows that we are particularly disturbed by this. It bothers us because then these people tell us that it is not possible, for example, in Article 15, to enter things like that of someone who has studied for four years, which automatically receives a five - year education. This level of education is recognized to him. The world told us not to do so, even though he had to get to it alone without his services. He warned us that it was important to be more careful about this, that we should look both at those who already have diplomas, as well as at others, that it would not happen that any of the Members who, starting from tomorrow, will probably accept the law today, asked their daughter why she, who is also studying four years as her father has studied four years, will receive first-degree education, and today Dad has voted by law that he has a five-year education. These kind of anomalies must know how to make the world go away. For we are dangerously moving in these waters, that it may happen that someone will tell us that we are like those heirs of Cosmian Damian Booth, who believed that if they wanted to be in the church, but sitting outside, they would just stand against the wall, and they would move the wall, and so would they within the limits of the church. I'm afraid we need an independent job and we really need an independent world so that no one can tell us that we belong to those who are considered to be, when their need is such, they can fix a little more education.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u153	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor. Mr. Capuder, you have not been quoted and I have entered you into a debate. Oh, you were? Here you go, Mr. Capuder, replica, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I'll be shorter. Mr. Gaber didn't listen to me. I'm the one who said the agency was premeditated. But it wasn't established. That's what I said. I also said that we find these solutions irrational and that these solutions do not seem effective and that they are not rational. That's all I said. But I didn't say the agency worked.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u155	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Well, Master Capuder, I will mention you, too, so I'm giving you the chance to replicate. But I hope there won't be any need for you to replicate me because I'd like to thank you first for what you've noticed. In fact, with the ready text of the amendment, we have accompanied the mistakes. We would like to change the order because it seems to us that guidance should be guided by the conduct of evaluation, external evaluation procedures. But, as we say, we will support the amendment of the Liberal Democrats in one way or another, but they have decided to make a much more radical proposal, which means deleting the whole article and here again your statement, Mr Capuder, would be referred to in several points. Indeed, this government often aligns its decisions with indications that any change or decision is necessary due to rationality, with a view to savings, to say whether the use of resources for efficiency does not indicate many of the criteria it considers. However, it is a matter which is essential to the Agency, in the opinion of the Social Democrats, that no savings and no efficiency can be an excuse for the fact that the quality assurance agency has not been established, even though it has been provided for by law. Therefore, in the second point, I do not think there can be any provision, as it was explained at the outset that the professional service of the Higher Education Council should be at the Ministry, because this would save because it would actually be directed by those who are already employed and therefore not have to look for new jobs. The whole matter would be much clearer or, as you say, transparent if there were no other concerns. Not so long ago, when the European Member said that it was the job of professional services or public or state officials to fulfil what the government required them to do, that is government policy. But here now the problem of independence, the quality of some professional service, begins, because I don't know what kind of professional job you're thinking about. Do you think of experts with scientific addresses as references that talk about their professional competence in the scientific field they come from, or are you talking about professional competence that should be inherent to all public servants, that works professionally, that works qualitatively, regardless of their political beliefs? But as a matter of fact, the hell with it. A few such statements or actions are leaving the door open to doubt. And I would like to point out once again that the Social Democrats were the first to point out the inadmissibility of the habilitation procedures carried out within the framework of the Higher Education Council because they allowed doubts that they had been carried out in accordance with the standards of the habilitation procedures carried out in the framework of the three Slovenian universities. In doing so, it has nothing to do with the fact that the Social Democrats believe that the quality of existing university centres and their individual parts should be taken care of and that opinions on how they could have between seven and ten universities in Slovenia, even though we refer to some foreign examples, do not in itself provide greater quality. Suitable for individual higher education centres. The question is whether, in fact, we have a sufficient number of really quality higher education teachers in Slovenia, which would also ensure the appropriate quality of the study process. Here we would expect that, as I have already pointed out in point 4 of the Group's opinion, the criteria for habilitation in the higher education world would be set at least at such a difficult level as the standards or criteria for habilitation within the existing three universities. I did something small myself at another Slovenian university. I am aware of how difficult it is in practice to overcome concerns when graduates of a junior university are competing for the same work as graduates of an older university - because people are doubts. It is therefore essential to establish standards in the field of habilitation. Because the door is not open for doubt where there can be no doubt. It is true that I am convinced that the market on which we so like to advocate Bologna changes and after this Bologna orientation of the renewed programmes cannot be the only criteria for study programmes because the market will probably never be overly interested in a number of humanistic professions. The market for those professions of national importance is probably not going to be wide-ranging outside the national space. So that special care for individual programmes will still be needed. Therefore, the habilitation procedures for working in these professions are, in my view, extremely sensitive and require special attention. Therefore, minimum standards should also be laid down and all these specifications should be taken into account. And now to the last of it. Such wide-ranging powers of the higher education world frighten me because of another special phenomenon that we have witnessed to him and which has otherwise been assured that he has no ill effects or at least that he can be helped with an exemption. We are not engaged and have not said anything about a conflict of interest or a competitive clause. One of the Slovenian universities decided to consider whether it would allow its teachers to work at other universities. It's a matter of her autonomous decision. I am more concerned that the President of the Higher Education Council is also involved in higher education institutions. I can't get past the fact that the door to question the impartiality of the decision remains open. Unfortunately for me, this is even more than doubt, because everyone who thinks about what is being done with Bologna's study and with competitiveness on the job market for graduates through the old programmes is absolutely clear. For an old-fashioned graduate, there will be additional credit points besides being granted a diploma. But if he wants to be competitive, he'll probably have to take a master's degree. Just postgraduate studies will be the place where some will be most helpful. The question is whether they will also help Slovenian society and the interests of graduates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr. Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u158	President, thank you so much for your word. This debate on these amendments shows what has already happened on the Committee that this law has not been as harmonised as it should have been. Personally, I regret that we have not reached the point of adopting such an important law for the Republic of Slovenia on a normal basis, because my experience shows that Members are not just one to each other who throw pollen under each other's feet, but at least the members of this committee have adopted most of the acclamation laws. The National Assembly, too, had hardly any work to do when we adopted these laws. This is again in addition to that law amending the law on research activities by calling for the opposition to advertise if certain amendments are open, so it is also possible that there may be little abuse of the rules of procedure when these matters are discussed, to be honest. It seems to me that the solutions, as they are now in the complementary proposal of the law, are not good and will make it even more possible than in the past that corruption or customerism in higher education can develop. Look, they weren't even wise enough to give the world new powers if we wrote a new law. The Council will elect the Chambers so that the composition of the Council will be fully changed. But this law speaks of the world so in the transitional and final provisions that the old members who have been appointed remain until the end of the term of office, the new ones will be appointed. Then we'll have that "mark saw" cattle in the appointment of members of the world. With regard to what this world should do, I think it is wise and better that the solution that was laid down in the original law is now those corrections that we have introduced into the amended bill. Look, dear fellows, why? This Article, which is referred to, says: "The Council of the Republic of Slovenia is also carrying out tasks as an accreditation body." I will quote directly from this supplementary proposal from below, the second indent is: "It gives consent to study programmes and changes to their mandatory components." If I go then to the Senate of the Council, which the world elects and is to the Accreditation Senate, there is a second indent: "It agrees with the study programmes and changes to their mandatory content." And this is repeated from the orders of the world to the accreditation Senate. It seems to me that what several colleagues have already said before me should somehow be installed here also to avoid these irregularities or to the light ways of some in establishing a management in the field of higher education. I don't think it's wise to stand up for one chance to be president of the world. That didn't happen. However, to represent the President of the Council, one who runs a private higher education institution, is more than obviously absurd than absurd, and points to clientism, against which, at times, the opposition in the previous term fought so well that it could not, because this higher education council says it gives an expert opinion, so that it gives consent to the study programmes and changes in their mandatory content, and we have witnessed how, for the President of the Council, his institution, a quick study agreement on mandatory content was given. I think it was a real study. But, dear colleagues, on the one hand, we have a man who is the manager who has to make sure that his institution is very, very much, in this respect too, and on the other hand we put him there to advise everyone, so that he who will then finally present on behalf of the whole world, how it is given, so how to set out the criteria for obtaining programmes, how to give consent, accreditation to programmes, how to give consent to the establishment of new colleges, etc. That's not wise, and it's not good. On the other hand, as I have said now, I can tell you two of the same indents about the world as the habilitating body and, like, the same line in the Senate of the World as the habilitating body. The same. And that calls for this to be necessary in these articles, which we are discussing today, and we are likely to vote also because they will fall as dominoes, one after the other if the first one falls, and colleague Capuder rightly said that they are related. So it can also be used in these things here for a great deal. We need to know, dear colleagues and colleagues, that more or less the majority of the same profile is in the government of ministers. There's more in one government. There are fewer ministers in the other government, who are also university professors and perform two jobs at the same time. And now such a government calls it the professional world. This Council of Experts appoints a Habitat Senate, and this Habitat Senate then habilizes, if the absurdity is the greatest, a minister who does not go through habilitation in the field of his university where he is employed, but goes through the rehabilitation of the world. If it's not disputed with some honest, sane person, I don't know what it is either. In order to calm the ball down a little bit, let's try again, because the other articles of the law are no longer questionable, to come up with some solutions that are really cleaner than they are now, I would ask you to support at least these amendments and then in third reading. If we are willing to talk with arguments, let us correct this law as people say, so that we will not get a headache in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr. Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So when we look at the amendments to the proposal for a law on higher education adopted after a reduced procedure, I stress that, after a reduced procedure, we see that it is certainly not justified to choose the procedure, since the law is not only consistent with the partners to this extent, so that the condition is unacceptable to them, but we also see that there are many other articles that need to be discussed in substance, agreed upon and finally set up in such a way that they will be in the interests of our higher education. Here, as it is said, it is not only a matter of urgency and formal form and choice of procedure, but we must be aware of the fact that we are discussing institutions, higher schools, universities that have a far-reaching tradition in history, those institutions which have their own meaning on the basis of this tradition, and those institutions that need to be maintained in their independence and enable them to carry out the mission they carry out. At times, in the Middle Ages, a church was involved when it was taught against dogma. It would not be good now if we allowed the state to become involved in the autonomy of universities and education, although many say that this is the same involvement of churches and states. As a result, I myself have concerns about the role and importance of the higher education world. We know the background. The Council was entrusted with one of the important ideologies of the ruling coalition, which has now begun to threaten the minister. And the minister, expected and fully justified, has a legitimate response. However, it reacts by preparing a law that is written for specific people. At this point, it's not even that disturbing and bad. However, laws must not be written for specific people. This experience is not the last time that the Constitution has been written for specific people. [[I have in mind the former President of the Republic]] . And for this reason, it would certainly be more prudent to leave these articles open and to reason about them, to put them in such a form as to preserve the meaning of the previously harmonised, with students and universities, agencies. The Council should not assume that role, which in certain cases may pose a danger, a danger to the autonomy of the university. Here I am not only thinking radicalism, the radical autonomy of the university, that the university is autonomous in all areas and of all the most important and intelligent. I agree that the State must give general guidance to the university on its needs, that it must also be on the rationality of spending and so on, but on professional autonomy, and that it must not be decided by those who are not qualified to do so. The university's expertise certainly begins and ends with the staff, and the state must be aware that the university is about the students. And if the university is going to give good diplomats, then it's going to be for the state. So, the university is about the state, but through the students, so let's keep it that way. I also agree that the market should not be the only criteria for establishing higher education. Because if the market is the only criterion, then at least in the first stage this will certainly lead to a reduction of the criteria, to negative selection in some and as a domain this will start in all others, due to the battle for survival, due to the existence of the market, in the knowledge market in this particular case. And what's gonna happen? In this case, because of this negative selection with many universities in the first phase, at least they will become sales diplomas. This can be avoided in particular by ensuring, establishing and complying with the minimum criteria that must apply in the provision, selection and validation of staff at universities. In Slovenia - I can certainly argue with this - there is no awareness that it is not only a diploma, but it is also important from which higher education institutions this diploma comes. Where there is a longer tradition of such a form of education, surely things are going differently. More or less, all those who enter the university will only complete this university. The question is just how much money they have to sign up for better or less quality, including a less eminent university and consequently have open doors for better, more important services or less important services. It's different with us. In our study, not all enrolled students finish the study, but only the most ambitious ones finish it, and unless we are aware of the meaning of the origin of the diploma, we will not be aware of it, we will give peace of mind to the poor students and punish the good and do the wrong, the good ones we have to count on in the future, and the good ones that are also the base of potential candidates for the continuation of this mission, both from raising children in kindergartens to the highest levels of education, that is to say university professors. That is why I propose that we leave these articles open so that in this very short-lived member, but we can still take advantage of the opportunity that we have and make the case in such a way that, at least for force, it will be acceptable to those who, on the one hand, are preparing the laws and to those for whom you are preparing these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u161	Thank you. Anyone else want to go to Article 5 and to the two amendments? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to Article 6 and to the debate on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 6. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 7 and to the debate on the amendment of the LDS Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Hello again. So, when we read Article 7, it will be very eye-to-eye when we talk about the powers and content of the work of the individual Senate by covering with the content and competence of the Council, that is, the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education. Of course, it is very difficult to explain why, in fact, in the case of the 5th indents, we see, let's say that as a habilitating body, the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education has written down, except for one indent of the identical indent as a Senate, of course, here is the normal question of what will be the way in which the arbitration between the Senate and the world will take place in the event of different decisions. So this is a very vaguely written content in these two articles, which leaves a very open space under the jurisdiction of individual or of the world or of the Senate. Of course, these contents relate to all three applications, both the evaluation role of the world as well as to the content of all three Chambers. The second thing I would like to point out in Article 7 is a fact that I have somehow pointed out in the debate on Article 5. This is how we resolve the issue of conflict of interest in the composition of the Council and the composition of individual Chambers. In Articles 7, 8 and 9, we write down who should not be appointed to an individual Senate. There is, of course, an unanswered question here, why it is not stated in these paragraphs that the individual Senate cannot appoint one who owns or co-owners of a particular higher education institution. Which, of course, directly creates a conflict of interest between the role played by, say, as owner or co-owner of a higher education institution and as a possible or potential member of the Senate or then in the world. Therefore, I find these paragraphs, or those paragraphs, in the text of Article 7, to be too vague. Well, in terms of conflict of interest. Therefore, it makes sense, by way of a note, that there is a duplication of the role of the Chambers and the world and in the sense of the indefinite role of conflict, clarification or avoidance of any possible conflict of interest, to support the text of the amendment which speaks of the deletion of the text of this Article and to resolve this question and to respond to the concerns it just represents.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u163	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this article? Here you go, Mrs. Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello to you all. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will not only be this amendment, but also the other amendments that are ready, I will support these amendments. Of course, I hope that what we or colleagues have already stressed today will remain open to reflection, especially with regard to the Higher Education Council and the Agency. For the warnings we heard on the committee were very serious. They also point out that if we put a conflict in the future after a reduced procedure, which I find extremely inappropriate, if we accept it. And this conflict, which has already been detected, is actually very dangerous. It is also dangerous because we can also see in a brief discussion, which is and has happened on the committee, that even within the coalition sparks fly if Mr Jambrek is considered only an important part of this coalition, as was said to be an ideology. This conflict will not be simple and can cause many problems. However, I must say, given that Article 15 is no longer open, I must express my support to the Minister for this, for this compromise proposal of Article 15 concerning the comparison of old and new graduates, if I say so gravely. In this sense, I must say that, in view of some concerns today, I do not feel any shame or bad conscience at the expense of what we would do in translating education or diplomas from the past, in order to come to the point that we are diplomats or graduates, and I suppose that more or less in the National Assembly, we are already seniors, we are acquiring more than our own, or that we are taking more of ourselves at the expense of the young generation than it would be right, and in some way we are disstimulating new students. I think that this is an incorrect claim that it is not the right thing to protect the interests of the people sitting here, but I think that it is a matter that needs to be considered in a number of ways. It is also necessary to think about what, in fact, they would have done to themselves, to their school system, to their educational system if in some ways all of these diplomas, which have been said so far, were put at a lower level than all comparable countries have done, particularly those for which, from our point of view, extremely important partners in the labour market. These are all neighbouring countries. This is Italy, this is Austria, this is Germany and the Czech Republic. For example, if this is the case, it is certainly from the point of view of the labour market that the countries with which we will most cooperate within the European Union are. We would actually do ourselves a bear service and in some ways say that all education in the past has actually been relatively poor in our country. For in this way we would translate into a significantly worse variant than other countries have done. I can't help but avoid something that I've been through, that old graduates today should be 40, 45, 50 years old, if they wanted to get some appropriate education after all these years, when I think that many of them have done a number of educations that have not been recorded anywhere, to attend a number of complementary forms of education that are, in fact, formally lacking some value, but mean a lot in terms of experience that all of them still have to do some exams, otherwise they should also get some points, but they should certainly be reintroduced in the formal mode of education. It seems to me to be demeaning to this generation, to a generation that has lost so much at this point. She's lost, and she'll be in the area of pensions, where we'll work a lot further than everyone else is before us. She's lost in a number of segments, and she has to give up. In this sense, I think this solution is good. However, there may have been something else in the back, including a profit that could be built by different schools in this generation. Because, especially if it were a commitment in the public administration segment, where it would then be a different institution within the public administration for its already employed workers, it would be a golden pit for many newly established colleges with problems with regular enrolment. And that would be financed indirectly by the state. This feeling, in this story, that this whole generation should be re-educated, cannot be avoided. I submit that a lot of different forms of education have been carried out, which is not formally recorded anywhere. Various specializations, professional exams and things like that. In this way, I believe that this solution to Article 15 is correct for generations who have studied or completed their studies years ago and I find it comparable. I have to say that there have already been, at least I personally received a lot of calls, where, above all, those who work in companies already in foreign ownership have warned me that they already have problems within these international calls, and we would have caused new problems to all these people. I think it's extremely unfair and in this sense, I support the law in this part. I speak for myself. So I think this solution is appropriate and good. But there is no cause, at least not for me, of any bad conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr. Gaber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Our debate today is very thorough in teaching us how important it is for professional bodies in the country to carry out their business. If they don't, even if they don't have the appropriate professional services to do it, then we're laying around talking about what we think and what our wish is, how the world spins. When we discuss what we are already dealing with, it is not particularly dangerous. But if we are discussing with much joy and with much less perspective on higher education, then this is significantly more dangerous. At that time, for example, we handle things over our thumbs rather than taking up enough time to see first that those who have already reached a certain level of education would not be deprived of it further in order to search for a job so that they could obtain it. It's possible to do this, but it's not very easy. However, if we do this in such a way as to attribute to ourselves an education, a level of education that we have never achieved, then I fear that it can be that in time this text will be read, which I have before me in this way: Three hours of walking on a deserted Sunday lies with you, and they call it a city. In the middle of the village there is a brown mollusk called the stream. There's huts on both sides, they're called houses. Two, three houses have floors. These are the kind of houses they call castles. In them, the National Assembly, they raise their education with the law, if necessary. This one has a name. This country must not afford it, so it must have professional bodies who can see that there will be no situations in which they would really devalue their education against foreigners, but not to make fun of Bologna. Because if we claim that our current 4 year education is actually second-degree education, then respectable colleague Mencinger is 100% right, Bologno should be introduced in Slovenia in a very simple way. Leave existing programmes and write down the law: our programmes are second-degree programmes. Why are we pressing new people into five years of study now? However, if we claim that our current four-year programmes are worth a second degree, it is a waste of money through the window. Whoever's doing this should be a little more bold, and I should do that. In order not to do so, you should listen to your world for higher education. The Council said to him: "We warn you that the problem is too complicated, take time to write down the law to arrange this, this and that within the framework of the framework of professional qualifications." Now, whether we like it or not, at home we will not be able to explain to our children why the education of person A, who sits between us and has studied in college in such a way that she studied for one diploma for 3 years and for the other, she received both diplomas - this law will place these two diplomas at the level of the second degree - and the daughter of this person is studying at the same university, studying at the four-year programmes of Bologna, this daughter will receive two degrees of the first degree. Anyone who can explain this to their children at home has extraordinary abilities. Anyone who can explain why he prefers not to let his children study the programs by which he has studied and give them an "ex lege" degree of second degree, he also has extraordinary abilities. That's what we're talking about when we're talking about expert bodies. The expert bodies are not invented, so they are in the world to help us when we do not know each other. And this is where the expert body told us, "Smart in hand and stop while it's still time."
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u167	Thank you. The Minister applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I think I'm going to tell a very short story because Dr. Gaber also took his time and gave some kind of story to the Milky Way. The story goes like this. In 1966, I served as an army, called the Yugoslav People's Army, and then the Yugoslav army sent soldiers to Sinai. And because they were afraid, apparently they didn't look too educated, they gave all the officers two less because they didn't trust their education. They feared that our education would be bad because they knew it was bad, and it was military. I would not want today, fifteen years after we know and are all convinced that we had a good education at universities, to do the same as the Yugoslav People's Army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u169	Thank you. I give the word to Ambassador Joseph Jerovska. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I must say that I do not agree with the LDS amendment. Of course, I will talk about what I understood that in some way was in the form of a literary metaphor, with the help of the Buttalians, as I understand it, it was desirable for me to say Mr Gaber. I don't know if he was just talking about the content of this article. He was talking about the comparability of education, and I think Mrs Zalokarev was also talking about it. I must say that, even on this basis, my colleague Gabra is performing, I do not understand why such a vehement commitment to the devaluation of a national education substance. Once again, I say that it is unreasonable and unjustifiable and unfair to at least 130,000 people who have graduated from existing programmes in order to devalue their education by law or by a state decree. If we do as they did in Austria, Germany, Italy and other comparable countries, we will not violate any principle of the Bologna Declaration. Of course, we would make a very negative move towards the reputation of our country and also for the application of future graduates who will be graduated under the Bologna criteria. I don't know who inzidoctrinated the students, but I believe that this power of indoctrination, which is drawn from the past, and we saw last night that student officials are fighting the interests of students, against potential winners of scholarships. Also in diplomas, someone had the power of indoctrination of students to convince them that they would lose. I am convinced that the weight of diplomas under the Bologna criteria in the European education market will be significantly more valuable if Slovenia has 130 000 university graduates to date who will have a comparable level with comparable graduates in Western European countries. But if anyone thinks that this 130 000 or 150 000 is necessary, I don't know how many there are, I don't think there are 150,000 of them to humiliate and tell them, you're something like that in Kosovo that's had bad schools, and I don't think they're working in the interests of this country. And that is why I strongly oppose and I think that, if nothing else, all the technical intelligence, and Mrs. Flower, of course, is not a technical intelligence, is humanistic, and I think she's actually committed to the same thing. The main problem, Mr Gaber, has opened up to Mr Slavinec on the Committee, including from your party, which said in this debate that the biggest problem is that the quality of higher education and universities has declined dramatically in the last 15 years, on the basis of school reforms. This is the problem and the fault of the past school authorities. Comrade Slavinec, I hope he confirms that the magnetograms exist, and he confirmed that, and I agree with him. Here was reform of the reform, the quality of the school fell, the relationship collapsed, the law school feminized on the basis of these reforms and these measures, including the enrollment on the basis of an external graduation, collapsed what was good in this country. Now, on the basis of what has been done in the last 15 years, to humiliate 150 000 Slovenian graduates, I do not agree with this. I think it's absurd. Some claim that there are even strong material interests in the back. From your party, some know exactly what material interests exist, and they also explain it aloud. I think that if such people who know the situation in you as well as within the university, that it will just hold that they exist to express material interests, that this population of graduates of Slovenian universities would degrade themselves by one degree after their education, so that of course they would be forced to do additional tests and some exams on which some of them would paralyze. That's an open word. I believe that those who are also lecturers from universities are better acquainted with this area and that they know better than I do what they say, but they do. I plead that these narrow interests end once and for all to make Slovenia comparable on the education system. I think that in the long years of tradition after Maria Teresa, I do not know how much to praise, but the fact is that a breakthrough has been made here in Europe at the time, that we are proud of this tradition, that we Slovenians are quite well educated, that we are successful in our areas. As a chemistry engineer, wherever I came from, I got compliments based on what I could show in the chemistry talks and based on what we did in the development field in the company. I tell you, Mr. Gaber, in comparable companies, they're actually opposite me, because it was easier for the chemistry doctors to sit down, but I could have had an equal lunch with them. Maybe your client's official will tell you or tell you that it's true because he knows the area of expertise where I've been involved and we've been working together. I think that such experts or better at least among the technical intelligence in Slovenia are huge and I cannot afford to be humiliated by experience merely from a humanistic field. We can't afford that. I am proud of our parliamentary group and our client to insist on not humiliating Slovenian university graduates. Once again, they deserve it because they are very successful in whole areas because they know. Do you think that we would have this economic growth so that we would now enter the euro area if our experts from the economy as well as in finance could not work everywhere if they were not comparable to others? We know that in Italy, Austria, it was significantly easier to get to a doctorate. We have fewer doctors, but we don't have less knowledge on average. Some of you absolutely do not want to admit that Slovenians are able to be functionally educated within the framework of their work obligations and that functional knowledge is also something that has benefited the national corps. On the basis of this functional knowledge, we have also achieved something, not on the basis of your reforms. Your reforms, as Mr Slavinec said, have reduced the quality of education at universities. Agree once in the LDS to make it clear to you what you have achieved with these reforms in the last 15 years, and do not burden this area with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u171	Thank you. Member Slavko Gaber, a replica or a debate? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I would like to believe that colleague Jerovšek is an excellent chemical expert. But here today he demonstrated that the facts are his weak point, understanding society as well and principle. These are weak spots, some we have somewhere else. Why? It seems that the last diplomas awarded at universities in Slovenia, which counted more than anything else, are his and there is no man in this Parliament, perhaps two close competitors who would know how to say so much bad about Slovenian education, I have been monitoring him over the years, thus mutilating the achievements of Slovenian education. Of course, when a gentleman feels that maybe if he wanted to get some level of education more than he did, he would have to do something else, which is a normal procedure in the normal world, that if you wanted to have a level of education more, you would go to school and get it, I want him to get a Master's degree not ex-position, but to get it in college, maybe in this college he thinks is so bad. In the last 15 years, they've become extremely bad at this university, and it's going to be easy because he's almost already a doctor, and he's bragging about how he was able to talk to doctors, a great virtue. That way he can get a degree in education if he wants it, not give it to him. In particular, it would be good to try so hard to dig into the matter that we are talking about to see what the law says and what the Higher Education Council, led by the ideology of his client, colleague Jambrek, proposed. This world did not say that we should degrade existing education, it can be argued only by someone who promotes pure demagogism and wants to scare people to the bone. He said, "Boy Jerovšek...", that is what Jambrek told Mr Jerovšek, "Boy Jerovšek, before you do this with the law, let yourself think again and ask yourself whether, in the context of the qualifications, we would not be looking at both of them, so that we would not be devalued with the existing education, but also that you would not be able to be asked at home by your daughter "how does it look that my four-year education in modern or modern times does not count as much as yours, Dad?" That's what your fellow Jerovšek can ask you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u173	The replica is time-limited, so please finish. Thank you. continue with, I can't give you a replica of the replica, I can report you. Comrade Jerovšek, but I can report you to the hearing. There's an MP's word. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u174	Thank you. I do not want to motivate my debate on this law by any means with my personal position because I am at a stage where any decision on the classification of diplomas will have no effect on my competitiveness in the labour market, because it will in itself destroy this competitiveness. But it is something else that we realize or decide about things that concern many generations, and I am aware that it is difficult to find in the situation that we are in now, a solution that everyone would be pleased with. I admit, what we have also said is that we would go through the law on a regular basis, so that it would be carefully thought out what we will accept. But the fact is that there are two different types of education going on at the same time, and we didn't know how to help in 2004, when we passed the Higher Education Act, and I'm afraid we don't know how to do that either, so we're all happy. I will say this to my position on Article 15 and the solutions proposed therein. For me, the question of comparability is not crucial because the programmes are different. I understand that with the law on professional and scientific titles, things are arranged for Bologna programmes as set out in the law. True, though, there were hundreds of thousands of us who received titles from other programs. The question is what will be our option to integrate into the labour market and do the works you want to do - you do not want to have to be adapted more to those who enter the labour market after the disease than to those we have completed studies before. But it seems completely unacceptable to me that someone is trying to suggest that my decision will depend on what education I have now and that I am protecting only myself. I'm not protecting myself because I have nothing to protect myself for. I just want to have a decision that is consistent and that would do less damage. I understand Article 15, not as a recognition of education, but as a classification of individual levels. And I really can't help but have any doubts about the allegations made by the President of the Higher Education Council, who shot at Members with cannons like that, if we don't make a judgmental decision because we're going to protect ourselves. Here, of course, we could now have a long and wide distribution of what are good and what are a little less good solutions. The more crucial question for me is whether our labour market is really ready for the admission of new graduates, Bologna graduates, or whether it offers enough employment opportunities. That's the question. I would not link the quality issue of the study to the question of duration of the study, because, excuse me, some do not want to graduate simply because they want to extend their student status because they do not have employment opportunities. Go watch a little bit! I discussed this when I was asking the question of the mission, and I was told that teachers could easily get a job. It's not true at all, like in what environment. Go look at the Employment Institute in Maribor and see how many graduate professors and professors can't find the first job. So there are open questions here, problems exist and I do not believe that anything can be solved if the structure is set up slightly differently than it is. Therefore, the Social Democrats have not decided to table amendments to Articles 6 and 7 of the Act, which would change the number structure and composition of individuals, and of course would also find a lapsus, because once again, for the 12th time, it is said that all the professional areas must be represented by at least one member. One would say, however, that it would be good to look at something before writing something like that down. But it doesn't matter. What remains an open question is whether the solution that is being proposed in this law is really so devastating for the education structure in our country, because, as it is said, I do not see anyone being granted a diploma by any of these diplomas - a diploma for a professor will remain for a professor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u175	Thank you. Procedural proposal, Comrade Moge, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, I would ask you to warn - this is also your task - that we are talking about the 7th Article, which speaks about the Council Chamber, not about the 15th Article, which speaks about the level of education. Many Members used the present Rules of Procedure and did not speak in accordance with what they applied for. Please take this into account when driving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u177	Comrade Moja, thank you for your warning. In any case, I will strive to do so, but I add that the subject seems to me to be so important that I can allow for a slightly broader debate in connection with this. However, I would like to inform you that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure have been violated both by the ruling Members and by the opposition Members, and once again, I think it is worth having a broader debate in terms of education. But thank you for your warning anyway. We continue the debate. My colleague Martin Mikolitch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. It seemed very interesting to me to hear Dr. Gabra's discussion about the recognition of the first or second degree of Bologna or, above all, it seemed interesting to me that part of the argument was how we could be ashamed before our sons and daughters when we were granted a four-year degree and it would take five years for our sons and daughters. Look, a week ago, my son graduated from elementary school. He attended primary school for nine years. I don't know, I'm a little embarrassed today. I'm the same one who graduated from elementary school in eight years. And now I'd like to ask Dr. Grabra why you didn't think about these consequences at the time when you were instituting a nine-year primary school. When you make some arguments, it is especially good to think earlier about what you refer to. I fully agree, however, that what we are discussing today is a rather sensitive matter. Above all, I would like to think that when we advocate certain matters, we will consider on what grounds we are interpreting certain arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u179	Thank you. It's a replica of a colleague named Gaber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u180	Yeah, I'm sorry, but it's a typical replica case. Look, my dear fellow, if this is so simple and it's a primary school and this discussion that we're discussing is the same discussion, then I can't tell you anything else, you're right. But once again, the world for higher education, higher education organisations in Slovenia, 22 of the 24 universities of the University of Ljubljana have not proposed that we devalue existing education. They said you need a respectable minister, more time to examine exactly how much is considered a two-subject study in a college where one lasted three, the other four years. How long is that four and a half? Those should have a confession. It is not so easy to say that it is easy to destroy and say and devalue those who will study after a new four-year study. How can we tell them that your four-year study does not count as much as my four-year study? We can't say that. We can't say either. We're saying the other thing today. After a new four-year study, there is no second-degree education; it only gives first education. If the minister really believes that we have a good higher education system, then let him simply say, "Our four-year study is a second-degree study, also applied to new students and students." We can't do this discrimination. However, I am afraid that the matter is complicated enough for all of us to take nine months together and that those who need to be able to agree on it would agree with the Minister, not that we will decide here.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u181	Thank you. He asked the Minister for a word. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u182	Thank you very much. First of all, I'd like to respond to what you were saying about how to explain to your daughter the four-year program. It's very simple. The programmes are different and for different programs you get different titles. Ann's a musician. He's a physicist. The level of education is the same, the programs are different. If someone can't explain it, it's really bad. And the other thing is, and I'd like to stress that once again, you're always talking about comparing programs. We cannot do this for each programme separately, because this would mean a revision of the entire school system completely by 1919. We can't tell for every man who's still alive, who has a university that has some education, what his classes were like, and so forth. That is why we must settle this very principledly with the level of the university. And that's what we did. And please, once again, please don't mix the programs with the addresses. Someone can have ten programs, they study ten colleges, and they still have level seven, of course they're worse, someone's done with ten points, someone's barely finished. It is clear that the different qualities, clearly, are different thresholds, are clearly different knowledge, but the level of education it has achieved is the same. Someone who graduated from elementary school had primary school, he could have repeated it three times, but he has a level of education. Please do not mix the content, do not mix knowledge and do not mix programs. We're talking about the level of education. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u183	Thank you. We continue the debate. Dr. Lakhovnik has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! I also thank Mr Vice-President for allowing for a broader debate. I agree that the whole issue is so important that it is also necessary. What I wish to stress is that I believe that the solution that this law brings even in Article 15 is not a bad one, but rather I would like to compare it with some natural disaster for the Slovenian economy, because it is fundamentally undermining the Bologna process. When we went into Bologna reform, we made a very clear commitment to the fact that we are aware that knowledge is quickly obsolete, that there are modern didactic tools with which students can learn more at the same time or knowledge faster. That was the first assumption. The second assumption was that students should be brought to the labour market as soon as possible. When we looked at comparable countries, it was clear, of course, that the first three-year programme, which is the same as the old second level we had, was a 5-year master's degree. This was a fully-known acceptable fact. This fact was valid for as long as a new minister, a new government, and he turned it all around. At the university that I come from, and also in many other colleges, we simply couldn't believe that the Bologna process was being undermined in the foundations. But that was a fact. To show the absurdity of this situation that we will now have, it is enough to draw attention to the fact that students will have to study for the same title as they do now: a university-graduate economist for one year longer. Well, I'm sorry, it doesn't make sense. That's exactly what we need today, I don't know, to Vienna more time than 200 years ago when you took the carriage there, but today you can take the plane. The development of modern didactic tools allows students to learn more in a shorter time, new forms of study have developed. And the whole world knows that, we're just closing our eyes. And to give you the greatest example of the hypocrisy of this government, it is, for me, the case of an ambassador in Argentina who comes from the same party as Mr. Minister. This same minister, who is recognised as a university degree for a 3-year programme, is a university degree for which students in Slovenia will have to study for 5 years. This is an example of hypocrisy also reflected in this law, Mr Minister, not to be disturbed, although the truth hurts, but I am only trying to illustrate to you what absurdity this law can lead to. And our Slovenian Constitution says we are all the same before the law. And this same ministry, which has awarded a university address to someone for 3 years, admitted him, requires Slovenian students to study for this same title for 2 years longer. So, five years. This is the famous article 15, and it is right to say so too. This is quite contrary to the logic of this law with the development of the labour market, with the development of didactics, with the concept of the Bologna process. Mr. Secretary, you killed the Bologna trial. For me, this is one of the biggest disasters that can happen in the area of higher education, because simply, forgive me, I also come from higher education and I cannot explain to the students why they will have to study one year longer after the new level. This is absurd, with all the modern didactic tools that we have available today and with the fact that knowledge is very quickly obsolete, that the assumptions, as I said, that we want students as soon as possible to send the most modern knowledge to the labour market is absurd. This is absurd even with the current demographic movements, when we already have fewer and fewer growths, when the young generation is too young to fund all mandatory contributions from different cash registers and the ministry insists that they must study longer for a certain level of education. These are ridiculous things. Here it is necessary to know that this law thus brings a whole series of illogicalities. As I have said, I would expect this law to implement the spirit of the Bologna process into Slovenian higher education, and this law destroys it and drives the Bologna process out of Slovenian society. I think all the reform experiments we are talking about in Slovenian society, in fact, I will say or, if I say otherwise, the most beautiful spirit of the reform process in Slovenian society. There is a lot of talk about disease, but when it is necessary to implement it, it will be wiped out in the toilet. The same is true of reforms in other areas. There's a lot of rhetoric about reforms, but reforms aren't from anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u185	Thank you, you. Minister Zupan is involved in the debate. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u186	I am pleased that young Mr Lahovnik believes in a nürenberskiliak in which knowledge can be poured within a few minutes. That's all right. As regards the issue of the recognition of education to Mr Vivod, I have here a decision which recognises the first level of Bologna at level six. And that's certainly not what you're saying. Please read the documents a second time before you deceive me not to say any worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u187	Thank you. Member Rudolf Petan has been announced for the debate. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. We had such a discussion in 2000 at exactly this time, I think in June or July. At that time, Mr Gabro and I also faced each other. The reason for this discussion, however, was that in one of our journals there was a call for jobs for those who had an education graded by 300 Bologna points and had the conditions for a doctorate. And then this is where it started. Then I'll finish the matter. Now I'd just like to mention that there are a lot of problems with us, too, because there is no job. However, it is also true that the employment of academically educated or highly educated staff was not because companies were able to employ students under the age of 30, with only 10% of the taxes, and 18% of the wage tax we had for those highly educated, but for those who did not have any education, there was no tax. Who, then, will hire such people who are actually 18% more expensive? Not at all. So thank God the government lifted that tax. I know it's about the world, I'm aware, but I'm going to take a little advantage of what the president has allowed us, so I'm really going to get a little bit further away from it, but because it belongs to this content that I want to say. The fact is that such a view or such a solution given by that government would not be a problem or a problem would not be a problem if we continued to be imprisoned in our countries, as it once was. But since the fall of European borders, we have been on the labour market in the European Union. Here now comes the problem of why such solutions, as defined here, are also necessary. Not that they're good, but urgent, and they're good because they put graduates in an equal position. The fact is that such a solution has already been written down, without even being written down, has already been written down by our immediate neighbours or by those countries where the greatest interest is for our graduates to be employed: Austria, Germany, Italy and the other European countries. That's what they say. We can't find the pulp because others have already invented it. We can only summarize it so that we can be equal to others. Now let's move on. There are certainly two interests here, and the world is the same. One is purely the economic, financial interests of schools, which is completely understandable and the interest of students. As far as students who have now started at the Bologna level are concerned, there is no problem because they will be comparable to Europeans anyway. There are no problems here, they will get their titles, their addresses, their drawers, where they belong, no problems. But the thing is, life goes on from this day forward. We have, as already mentioned today, at least 120,000 graduates with that famous university degree. We could do anything we wanted. We could also do what we used to do when we were originally in self-government socialism, but we cannot be because we are on the labour market of the European Union. And since the countries of the European Union have already found a solution, we cannot do anything but accept what they have accepted so that these graduates will be equal in the labour market in Europe. There's nothing else going on. And we can't make up something that would put us in another position. Now we come to the essence of what has already been said today, the reputation of our education. Imagine that our neighbouring countries and Austria, where many of our students are studying, have also studied at those four-year famous university levels. They will have recognised 300 points or another Bologna level, they will be able to apply for tenders that require it, and our graduates will not have it. What does that mean? This means that our country or our parliament, which will make a final decision, has said that our schools are less valuable, less valuable because they have made graduates in front of Austria in four years, or have graduated students who have a recognised lower degree than our neighbours do. But is that what we want? I don't think that's what anyone wants. And if you ask me personally, no matter how high I am, but for me, it's no problem, I'll get things through to retirement. However, it is those who are still significantly younger, and those who have not yet finished are still studying the program, which is not Bologna, who are still 40 years old until retirement. But we're going to put you in an unequal position and we're going to say, and you've studied at our universities, so far on three, for example, because these are universities that give less knowledge and have less recognised education than those that have only studied a few kilometers across the border. Is that what you want? Probably not. And we can't afford that. And what we are doing, what this government's proposal is, is not to degrade our education, on the contrary. We want to put our education on the same level and level as it was set up abroad. But we are, and we have this opportunity, this is what the European Union is giving us, thank God. We will register and if we say that this is the first stage, we will determine for ourselves that our school is worse. And I say it's not. I'm sorry, I'm telling you again, it's not! And I will not support any such solution, as I did two years ago when we faced the then Minister, Mr Gabr. At that time, I defended the same positions as I advocated today. It's the rank and equality of our schools in front of strangers. I'm never going to defend this because I'm sure it's not true that at foreign universities we're raising geniuses themselves, because our schools are so left-handed and we're more like that, as it's called high landers, I'm sorry or thank God. I will not defend this and you will not hear me. As far as comparisons are concerned with strangers, I'd say that. We haven't been here yet because we were locked up, just compatible with other people everywhere. They mostly didn't have a master's degree abroad as a scientific address, they didn't have one, and we had one. What about this? They didn't have it abroad. And that's our problem now, because now it's a mixed scientific and academic title of master, because one is written in the front and the other is written in the back. At least we found that difference. And we need to reconcile that now. That's the problem, and I think it's a very good solution. Let me get this straight. I keep hearing that the solutions that are ahead of us are from this government, that they are catastrophic, that they undermine the foundations, and I don't know what they're all about. But, ladies and gentlemen, it has never been this small of unemployment. We are correcting economic growth upwards, we have the first finance minister in Europe, the European Minister of the Year if you want, and it has also been said that it does not separate the coin from the banknote. Yeah, that's what happened. That's what you're saying. I want to tell you that you're wrong. You're wrong. When you mention the Agents, I'll get it over with. You had an LDS shot at the head of the Slovenian Railways. He wasn't even three years old, so you gave him a university education, gentlemen. Therefore, do not descend on such slippery soils. But if we want to be equal with Europe, let us prove for ourselves that we value ourselves as much as we value ourselves in Europe, and let us recognize our graduates the same level of education or the same status as those who have studied a few kilometres across the border. We must therefore accept what is in this proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u189	Thank you for your discussion. But to the word I invite the apostle Joseph Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I think it is very good that the debate on this law has been going on for more than a year, so that we can discuss solutions that will benefit both the Slovenian National Corps and all the graduates so far and future for their entry into force in the European labour market. And once again, it would be a catastrophic mistake to devalue a knowledge train with a measure such as a marriage solution or whatever, 130 or 150 thousand Slovenian university graduates. And I'm not the only one who thinks that way. Here I have to answer my colleague Gabru, who was offensive in his speech to me, when he stressed that the facts and principles are my weak point. I'm gonna have to prove to him that it looks like that's his problem. They mutilate the achievements of Slovenian education by those who want to reduce 130,000 graduates by one degree, who do not trust them, even though they are university teachers. I stand for the achievements of Slovenian education because I know that despite the Cardelian reforms and interventions at the university there were consistent teachers and that the university was in some way autonomous and educated very quality staff. And I am against them being humiliated and humiliated in any area and devalued in comparison with Europe. I have to say, when it was clear to me that I'm fighting to be able to sign a master's degree or a master's degree, that's contrary to the facts. No ex-graduate will get a title. I'm going to retire, actually I'm not afraid for myself, because I won't have to enforce any of this law anymore, but I will always sign and I will remain the title of a university-graduate chemistry engineer. And the fact is, what my colleague Gaber said isn't true. He also said that my weak point was principle and he told me not to obey what he called my client's ideologist, Dr. Jambrek. For the first time, I hear that Dr. Jambrek would be a member of our party, but I wonder what principle is. If I object, as he says, to my client's ideologist, is that indiscretion? And he's bowing down to our party's ideologist, although he's been an LDS ideologist for years. Is that principle? I think you should have a spine and have your point of view. And he spoke to me when I quoted a member of the parliament of Dr. Slavinc, a lecturer at the Faculty of Education in Maribor, when he discussed on the Committee on Higher Education and now I will read the quote. Dr. Slavinac, who performed for Dr. Gabrom, said, I'll insert, of course, because I can't do everything: "It's not about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u191	My colleague Jerovšek, despite allowing a broad debate, please at least stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u192	"... equalizing the incomparable," says Dr. Slavinac, and saying, "Now I'm going to say something some won't like to hear." I think who he had in mind. He says: "The fact is that studying from ten years ago was more difficult and quality than studying now at the same level. Now the studies are not so demanding and therefore we have problems recognizing the second level of university study." And that's what I was quoting, and that's why Mr. Gaber told me that I'm not operating on facts and that I'm not in charge. If he were in charge, I'd argue with Dr. Slavinec, because I'm using his quotes. That's the facts, and I'll stay principled. Even though some tried to persuade me to avoid different viewpoints, I did not. Since the first day, I have in principle stood in this position and I think this is an important question for 130,000 Slovenian graduates. Show me, apart from those who have some material interests, who advocates such solutions, who thinks that this humiliation of Slovenian diplomats is beneficial to Europe and to the inside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u193	Thank you, you. We continue the debate. Member Franz Capuder has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u194	Thank you very much. When I listened to Dr. Lahar, I thought he was joking. He's obviously joking and he's having a debate on Article 7 and we're debating Article 15. He's been smoking the debate like that, and it's already so hot. Mr. Lahovnik, look, you said that some university graduate abroad got a recognised first Bologna degree. Then you said our master would be comparable to the master at the second Bologna level. Mr. Lahovnik, when I studied for Master's degree, I had to graduate first, I had to go to school for four years, I had to graduate, and I had to finish a Master's degree that lasted for two years. It's seven years, along with a seven-year diploma. You want to watch time alone, you want to compare my 7 years, that I won a science master's degree with an academic, I don't know what kind, I don't even know the title at the front, you want to compare me to a Master's degree at the second Bologna level. Are you kidding me, Mr. Lakhovnik? Are you kidding me? I'd understand you're joking, I'd understand you're joking, but you're a professor at the university. And I'm surprised you make these statements or you don't understand, but that's another thing. Yeah, I don't know. Maybe that's it or that. And if you're hoping to tell all those 120 grand or maybe even more university graduates that their university diploma is equivalent to all those who finish their first Bologna degree, then go ahead. I don't think so. You're the only one who talks like that. However, when we compare knowledge, I am convinced that all those university graduates who have a diploma in addition to their diploma who have completed a diploma in addition to their 4-year study, which lasted from six months to one year, that is to say, five years, and have been doing their professional work for a long time now, and have already received some education in this professional work, and you want to compare it with the first degree in Bologna. Mr. Lakhovnik, that's not going to work! Everywhere in the world, these things, I think they've solved more elegantly and more simply and honestly. I think it's fair. All we're doing with Article 15 of this law is a compromise, but I think it's a fair compromise, it doesn't give anybody anything, it doesn't take anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u195	Thank you, Master Capuder. Dr. Lakhovnik signed up for this. Here you go. Replica, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u196	Yeah, that's very clear. What you're saying is simply not true. I don't know anyone at economic college, no one at the economics business college in Maribor, no one at the university of organizational science, even the ideologist SDS Dr. Jambrek strongly opposes what you said. I know you're embarrassed that he's your ideologist, but God help you, you'd say in New Slovenia. I just want to make it clear that what you said isn't true. And I don't find it embarrassing. You may find it embarrassing because all the students who joined the Bologna programs believed that after three years they would receive university education. Now you're turning this university education into a sixth grade, so you're lowering it. And that's degradation. This logic, because it's been difficult for us, let it be difficult for future generations, you know, but it's absurd. Don't do this, for God's sake! The world is changing and it is time to give new generations at least equal conditions, if not better. And this is not about the degradation of old titles or anything, it is about adapting to modern trends in education. I have already made it very clear, and I will say again, because we have an exclusive case, Mr Capuder, a representative of your very own party, who has been appointed Ambassador to Argentina. And the law on external matters clearly states that he must have a university education. He's got a three-year Argentine education. Three years of Argentine University according to your 15th article is the same as the 5th year of study in Slovenia. This is the difference that is introduced by this law. What applies to Argentine students who need to be appointed to positions because they are now a new authority, you do not recognize this to our students. And our student must study for the same university education in accordance with Article 15 for five years, and you have accepted university education for three years of Argentine appropriate higher education for this distinguished gentleman, whom you appointed to the appropriate post. That's the inequality before the law. And if you're talking about honesty, keep it in front of you, and then you'll be embarrassed, not me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u197	Thank you. I would like to ask the debaters, because the Argentine method of study and Dr Jambrek have been mentioned so many times now that they no longer use it in their future discussions. However, the word is given by Member Aloise Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u198	Thank you very much. However, Madam Vice-President, please allow us to respond to these disqualifications that our fellow Member, who behaves with a doctoral title, is affording himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u199	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u200	In fact, I wouldn't expect someone who has a doctorate in science to express and play so easily, based on some of the articles in the Directive. The Minister has answered you, but obviously that's not enough for you, you're still saying and repeating the same nonsense. That's really not appropriate. I can tell you that. I can't tell you anything else. Now, I'm only going to tell you one more thing. When it comes to the comparability of the study, it's what you mentioned. I believe you're getting very nervous, Mr. Wived, like everything that comes from Argentina. We've heard about this a number of times on your side, and we're used to it. You're just saying that again, but it's a shame for you, you're very young, and that's how you're brought into this ideological hatred. Look, in 1987, I graduated from the University of Biotech for Veterinary Medicine. That's what happened back then. I got the name of a graduate vet. Our colleagues, who also completed five years of study, ten semesters in Italy, Austria, received a different title. So, Yugoslavia's graduates, if they wanted to go to any European country, could not verify their diplomas. But they did not admit it because these titles were not consistent and had to be known in their own way. For the most part, go further to the pre-qualification, etc. So, my dear fellow, don't mess with this comparability the way you do. And I recommend that you don't talk about someone who isn't here. This is one of the basic cultural forms that we all have to stick to. Don't talk about people that aren't there. The easiest way to degrade someone is to disqualify, disqualify them, but that doesn't suit you, especially not because you're treating a doctorate in science, which I congratulate you for, but refrain from making such statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u201	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Comrade Lakhovnik, please. A debate or a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u202	No, just a replica of Mr. Sok. Look, Mr. Sok, I've been very specific. I said when I mentioned to the distinguished gentleman that either he was granted an education for three years for which new students in Slovenia would take five years or he was in violation of the law on external matters. If what you're saying is true, Minister Rupel has violated the law on external matters, and I don't know why you're judging me now that I'm not honest, that I'm not being corrected, and that you're reading me some ideologically, I don't know what. This has nothing to do with ideology. It has to do with the basic principle that we're all the same before the law. That's all there is to it. I don't care about ideology. And there are only two options, as I said, whether they're not all the same before the law, or whether Minister Rupel broke the law. Even in this case, it is clear that not everyone is equal in his eyes before the law, but I know not.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u203	Thank you. We continue the debate. He has the word and only him, Comrade Joseph Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u204	Speaking of addresses, diplomas, I have to say no to these scams that are here. On the contrary, Mr. Vivod was on "hearing" for foreign policy and he made an excellent presentation there and was unanimously, I know that there was no voice against, confirmed that his presentation was very successful. And there were Members of the Liberal Democracy, if anything with his diploma was wrong or if there was a violation of the law on external matters, then it would be fair and in principle to mention it there. They mutilate "post festivals", muddy Slovenia, despise this country, and in organs and cities where this is legitimately done at a closed session, and put their heads in the sand and do not behave in principle. Such indiscretion on the part of your party seems to me to be the most inconvenient thing you can do in politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u205	Thank you. I will ask all future debaters to avoid repeating the content of the "hearing" that took place a year ago, and they really have nothing to do with today's debate. However, Member Franz Capuder has entered the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Before that, I may have forgotten one thing that might be even more illustrative than a university degree. Now university diplomas are comparable somewhere, especially in the professions of a pharmacy called the Master of Pharmacy, so this education is, say, a university graduate engineer and the Master of Pharmacy is comparable. And according to the suggestions of Dr. Lakhovnik, we should be mag. pharmacology to recognise the first bologna rate. I don't understand that, Mr. Lakhovnik, that's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u207	Thank you. And so far, the last submitted debater to Article 7 is MEP Slavko Gaber. Here you go. Then I ask him who else wants a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 7. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and the amendment of the Club of Parliament of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 10. Who wants a word? Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u208	In this short time, all I want to do is draw attention to the amendment, which specifies more precisely that there is no tuition at both levels of the Bologna because, in the previous law, only a few things have been allowed to be accomplished in the fifth year of schooling. To avoid misunderstandings, we wanted this to be clearly recorded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u209	Thank you. So once again, we're at Article 10. Comrade Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. We've been talking about this, my fellow minister, and we've been talking about it on the committee. When I read the article again, I admit that it would seem wise to me that it was written down to finance these two years in full, and then you said that you agree with it, I don't know if you take the paper, but we only add the word in full, that there would never be a dilemma when you have to finance colleges, especially because now there will be a great pressure on five years of study, because the only logical thing is, if the current education is a second degree, everyone will go to five years of college, because everything else will be less than what our standard was, that it will also have to be financed. So also for the magnetogram, "full," Mr Minister, I believe that you will support this, that you will be fully financed by both years, you said that there is no doubt about it, so we can write about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u211	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Franco Capudra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u212	Thank you very much. The solutions to the law so far were such that the state financed four years plus one third of the students in the fifth year. Maybe I understand this amendment a little differently. It may be my fault, but I understand it as if the state were obliged to pay for such a regular and extraordinary study in its entirety. Yeah, maybe I misinterpret him, and if that's what he means, and I have to say that I'm pretty sure it's meant to be, then I can't support such an amendment, because I'd probably have an unforeseeable impact on the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u213	Thank you. And once again, Ambassador Slavko Gaber spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u214	Mr Vice-President, dear colleague, no, we read the same text and we only insert the word "full" into your text and it is very clear from the context of these markers, which are in this sentence, that we are only trying to ensure that no one will negotiate later, whether it will finance 2/3 of the last year or as far as it is concerned. And that is what I will tell you, which is not the custom in this House. I recognize that you are taking a step forward in this point, in relation to what this country has financed so far. I don't know if you could admit that the previous law took a step further from what we had before 2004, because we had previously co-financed postgraduate studies through invitations, namely only for 4 years, now we have said that without tenders there is a third, you are now giving another 2/3 of the fifth year. I am pleased, I think it is also right, and I congratulate the Minister, especially if he has chosen these funds also within the framework of the reform concept, the concept of reforms in this case is being duly delayed and very commendable.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u215	Anyone else want a word? No one, then I conclude the debate in conjunction with Article 10. And I am putting into discussion Article 13 and the amendment of the Club of Parliament of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Who wants a word? Nobody. This concludes the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th agenda or at the latest at 19 hours and 55 minutes. With this, I also interrupt this agenda item. I thank the Minister for his participation so far. And we're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Execution and Insurance. The hearing shall take place on an urgent basis. In doing so, I inform you that 1 hour and 50 minutes are foreseen for the joint debate. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members. The proposed amendments to the law are a result of a decision of the Constitutional Court which established the constitutional non-conformity of the first sentence of Article 97(3) of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, since the law against the decision of the executing entity to pay one creditor does not now provide for the possibility of enforcement of a legal remedy, so that the execution of the payment of one creditor is not subject to judicial control. By 23 September of this year, the Constitutional Court had established that, even in the case of the payment of one creditor, the courts were to issue a decision on the payment of the payment, and that for the enforcement courts, which are already burdened with large backlogs, there was a considerable additional burden on the courts which would have increased the backlog. For that reason, it is proposed that, before the expiry of the deadline and following an urgent procedure, arrangements be made to make payments to the enforcement authorities by issuing an act against which the parties could appeal to the executive section of the District Courts. This would relieve the courts, which would decide only those matters which are disputed for the parties, which, last but not least, the fundamental purpose of which was laid down in Article 25 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. For comparison only, it should be noted that it is estimated that the current situation of such contentious matters is around 5%. It is said that out of 100,000 cases, 5% or 5,000 cases are in dispute. As a result of the proposed payment arrangement of one creditor, in order to simplify the system of payment of creditors with the aim of decommissioning the executive departments of district courts, in cases where several creditors have been paid, it is proposed that the payment of several creditors should also be carried out by the executing entity by means of an act against which parties not satisfied with the decision of the executing entity could complain to the executing court and would no longer be executed by the court as yet. In order to shorten enforcement procedures and the faster payment of creditors, it is proposed in the draft law to reduce the time limit within which the customer may object to the customer’s statement whether the creditor is a connected person under Article 200b of the Enforcement and Insurance Act, which is to be reduced from 30 days to 8 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u217	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u218	Thank you, Chairman. Welcome to the representatives of the Ministry of Justice, colleagues and fellow Members! At its 23rd emergency meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and insurance as its parent working body. The representative of the proposer, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, provided an additional explanation to the article of the bill, in which he pointed out in particular that the proposal for a law had been proposed for consideration following an urgent procedure for the decision of the Constitutional Court and for a certain method of enforcement, which would constitute a heavy burden for the courts, for the executing courts which are already burdened with large backlogs. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that their comments were duly taken into account by the amendment to Article 5 of the draft law tabled by the SDS, Nova Slovenija, SLS and DeSUS. The members and members of the Committee supported the proposed amendments and additions to the draft law, in particular eliminating the inconsistencies with the Constitution identified by the said decision and thus following the objective of decommissioning the courts and contributing to the abolition of judicial backlogs. In other words, one of the provisions was also made clear, but the representative of the proposer pointed out in his reply that the provision, according to the applicant, was sufficiently clear and provided that the procedures in which the courts now decide to divide the purchase and payment of the creditors or creditors are to be initiated before the law enters into force, are to continue and be completed in accordance with the provisions of this Act. The Committee therefore adopted the amendment to Article 5 and voted on all the articles of the law together and supported them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u219	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups. My colleague, Miran Potrč, will present the position of the parliamentary club of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u220	Thank you very much. With the exception of everything that has been said so far, I agree, I think that the law on the basis of a Constitutional Court decision is necessary to deal with not only cases of payment of one, but also more creditors, that this time it is realistic to believe that it will burden the proceedings of the court, as it will give power to the Executive Director and the Court if there is a complaint. That thought, which was reflected in the report concerning Article 6, was expressed on the working body of my mother. I asked if the transitional provision was clear enough. In that part that says that all proceedings will return immediately, I simplify, to executive administrators who will have the opportunity to issue decisions in the case of one or more creditors, or this provision is not clear enough. Those who are responsible for clarity, this is the legislative and legal service and government representatives, have told me that it is clear, I must officially believe them, but I would prefer it to be written more clearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u221	Thank you. Ambassador Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u222	Say good-bye again! In view of the number of judicial backlogs, with a large percentage of them falling behind in the field of enforcement, it is more than obvious that a comprehensive change in the enforcement procedure is needed. In the New Slovenia Group, we therefore support all the efforts of the Ministry of Justice and other co-workers working and preparing these amendments to the law on enforcement and insurance. However, some provisions need to be amended in the meantime, i.e. what is absolutely necessary, and today's proposal is so. The Constitutional Court held that it was contrary to the Constitution to a provision whereby the debtor had no possibility of a legal remedy against the regulation of the payment when it was one creditor, the perpetrator’s decision without a decision and the debtor had no legal remedy available. On the basis of the proportionality test, the Constitutional Court therefore found that the right to judicial protection was still weighed against the speeding up of the proceedings and provided that the courts should also issue a recovery decision in the case of one creditor. This would also result in additional backlogs in the courts which were already overloaded, according to the warnings of the judges on enforcement cases. However, the amendments that we have at our disposal provide that the payment decisions will be issued by the enforcement authorities and that the creditor or debtor will have the possibility of filing a claim within a specified period of time for the court to decide on the settlement of the claim. In New Slovenia, therefore, we support the amendment of the law on enforcement and also support the desire to speed up procedures, of course taking into account the legitimate legal protection. We are pleased, however, that both the Ministry of Justice and this assembly responded quickly to the open question and that judges have also given recognition to these speeds. So we'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u223	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be presented by Ambassador Franz Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance was adopted several months ago. Shortly thereafter, the Constitutional Court found that the law was inconsistent with the Constitution and issued a decision which is the reason for the amendment of the law that we are considering today. The Novela therefore amends that part of the law relating to the determining of the perpetrator of the payment of one creditor. The proposal for a law provides an appropriate solution with regard to the provision of a legal remedy for debtors in the enforcement procedure. At one point, the proposal also brings about the unification of the creditors' payment system. In contrast to the two ways currently in force, the single system provides for a more important role for enforcement and the courts will decide on the calculation, claim and allocation only in cases where this will be required by one of the parties to the enforcement procedure. The proposed amendments, of course, reduce the burden of the courts and, at the same time, provide sufficient legal protection for all parties to the enforcement procedure. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u225	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by colleague Boštjan Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u226	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable present. We will support the law in the Slovenian National Party, because we have no other option. For this is a correction of unconstitutionality, and we cannot have unconstitutional laws. The law before us has changed since February of this year, and this government has put into practice an unconstitutional law, which is a very interesting information. Nor has this unconstitutionality been identified by the legislature of this house, which should inform us Members of this matter. On the Internal Policy Committee, the Minister himself acknowledged that this was a, I will say, partial solution, although we have proposed primarily from the opposition types that the law would need to be treated in an integrated manner, but he has argued that part of this law would nevertheless help to reduce judicial backlogs. Somehow the practice in this house and in the laws we adopt is that each new law helps to reduce judicial backlogs, even though they are still growing, so I do not believe that the law before us will, in any way, help solve this acute problem of Slovenian courts. The law also states that the law will have no financial implications. It is true that the law will have no financial implications, except, of course, as long as the government has not counted again and proposes to us again an unconstitutional solution that will be established, I do not know, perhaps in 14, 15 days. We all know where the money comes from for the work of constitutional courts and constitutional judges, which is why we find it very difficult to believe such claims because these cases are repeated from month to month. As I have already said, I will support the law, but only for the reason that it is a matter of correcting the unconstitutionality that this government caused in February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u227	Thank you. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Yelen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u228	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of the Ministry. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the Government's proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and insurance. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the substance of the proposed changes in the discharge of the courts in terms of the decision on each creditor's payment is that, according to the data, there are some 5,000 such cases, so that such undesirable cases will be decided by the executing entity itself, and in other cases disputed or more difficult cases, the court will take decisions. This will make the system of creditors' payments more unified and efficient and, at the same time, relieves the courts which are already overburdened. However, another important change concerns the time dimension, which means that a shorter deadline for enforcement procedures is 30 days. In the DeSUS Group, we are confident that the proposed solutions will help to eliminate or reduce judicial shortcomings and to achieve a higher level of development of the rule of law and the effectiveness of justice, so we will support DeSUS Members with a complementary proposal from their mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u229	Thank you. Ambassador Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u230	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. The main reason for the proposed amendments is the decision of the Constitutional Court, by which, contrary to the Constitution, part 97 of the law, the method of enforcement provided for in this decision entails a heavy burden for the executive courts, and therefore the proposal of the law proposes that payment be made by the enforcement authorities by issuing an act against which the parties could appeal to the executing court. This would significantly burden the courts because they would no longer decide on each creditor's payment, but only on those which are disputed for the parties, which is also in accordance with Article 25 of the Constitution. The following amendment, which will help to remedy the judicial backlogs, is to pay the creditor a single payment system, on the basis of a proposal, the perpetrator should decide whether the creditor is one or more; the court would decide, at the request of the party, whether or not the creditor is one or more. The proposal further proposes an amendment relating to the reduction of enforcement procedures to shorten the time limit within which the parties may object to the customer’s declaration or whether the creditor is a connected person under article 200.b of the law. Well, the board's been exposed to why we don't solve things in an integrated way. The Minister explained that we could have made a different decision, but in this case this could take much longer, but with minor corrections it is possible to speed up certain procedures, since we are all committed to resolving the problem of judicial backlogs. This is both the aim of the Ministry of Justice as well as of the National Assembly and the law under consideration belongs to a group of those laws whose amendment will help to decommission the courts and thereby reduce judicial backlogs. We attach this to the SDS Group of Members, so we will support the proposed amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u231	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading of the bill's proposal, because no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, there is no possibility to discuss the articles, so I am also concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the session today in the framework of the vote, which is in half an hour, at 4:55 p.m. I hereby terminate this item of the agenda and hereby terminate the meeting of the congregation, which we shall continue, as we say, at 4:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We are continuing with the adjourned meeting of the National Assembly, which is coming to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, please ask Members and Members to check their voting devices in accordance with their established method and practice, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - third reading of the proposal for a law on public order and peace. We will move on to the decision on individual amendments tabled. By article 21, we have four amendments, each of which will be voted on separately. So we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 21. In doing so, I remind you that if the amendment is adopted, the other amendments to this article will become irrelevant. So we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 21. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 41. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the next amendment, to Article 21. Amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 43. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the DeSUS Group to the same Article 21. It's the same note here. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 4 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. Comrade Willy Rezman, you warned me in time. Can you check again? He's working now. There were 71 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 39. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 21. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 37. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. That's how we get to deciding the law. On the basis of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not warned me that the law would not be inconsistent. Explanation of voice. Comrade Gantar, please, on your own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u233	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LDS Group, the LDS Group of Members, I would like to inform Mr Pojbič. I would certainly like to say that in the LDS, we will vote against this law. We have repeatedly outlined the main reasons why such a law cannot be supported. The law makes a vague distinction between offences and criminal offences, allows for great arbitrariness, excessive arbitrariness, the law actually penalises certain acts that may be controversial but are not prohibited and not legal. The law interferes with the relationship of family life, in the private sphere, it is not only a law on public order and peace in public spaces, but it is also a law on order and peace, as the ruling coalition and the government represent in the private sphere, I point out. The "Hora Legalis" you have introduced is, of course, the last and finally an additional compelling reason not to support this law. This law, once adopted, will not have a happy life, this law will ignore life, this law will remain a norm that we will actually be ashamed of in the future, and I hope that we will change it as soon as possible. On behalf of the Member's Club, I predict that we will vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u234	Thank you. I ask Members of Parliament and Members for their attention, we are in the stage of explanation of vote. A colleague of Willi Rezman signed up to explain his vote. Here you go. In his own name, on behalf of the Group of Members? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u235	The parliamentary group will vote against the law because it supports the proposal proposed by the government. In that proposal proposed by the Government, which was supported in the general debate, so we all supported it, what is said in the current law was omitted. It says there, minors are not allowed to visit nightclubs, the government has proposed that this be released in the new law. Then it says, minors who have not yet reached the age of 15 must not attend events that are publicly declared inappropriate as young people. The government has proposed to release this. Then it happened that on the committee we all supported such a bill, that there was an amendment, which we call an amendment concerning "Horo legalis", and we all rejected it again, including DeSUS and the Slovenian Democratic Party, we supported the government until at the last minute one part of the coalition parties changed their minds. We continue to insist on supporting the government, unfortunately at the last moment even the government has changed its mind and opposed the proposal itself. Now, let's say why, because of any absurdity, we cannot support such a law, those who vote in favour of the law will vote against the fact that even after midnight without parents can be present on Puerto Rican Night or Lent in Maribor, when the fireworks will be 20,000, 30,000 people on the Bled Night, anywhere, but these same children will be able to show half at three o'clock in front of our guard's parliament and will not be punished, it's written in the law and you will vote for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u236	Thank you. Presentation of the position of the Group of Members, mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u237	Social Democrats are aware that the law on public order and peace is the kind of law that leaves enough room or even too much room for personal judgement of what is not defined as a legal term or legal term in law. In particular, we have stressed that the criminal code and the law on public order and peace do not define the same. And there would be places where we think there's too much open space for arbitration. But what's over the edge is the current article 21. We expected the government, as it has written down or mentioned in the position statement, to support the Social Democrats' amendment and thus to convince the coalition, at least the part that supports such solutions, to support the Social Democrats' amendment and thus to ensure an internal, consistent article 21. As Article 21 is now written, it is not in harmony with other laws. We believe that the good implementation of the law on local self-government and the consistent implementation of the law on the restriction of the consumption of alcohol would result in a lot more positive effects than the solution enshrined in the law. The age limit set is also not the same as the age limit laid down in the Act on the Limitation of Alcohol Consumption. If alcoholism is a social disease in Slovenia, if we are concerned about the fact that many adolescents have experience with alcohol use, then it would be right to support the amendments and thus do something to show that this is also a socially unacceptable behaviour and at the same time the owners of the premises and the local community have committed themselves to being consistent in the implementation of the legal provisions. We will therefore not support the law in the Socialist Group of Members, which means that we will vote against or abstain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u238	Thank you. Once again, I ask Members of Parliament to listen to the speaker. I have no other action than to interrupt the meeting if the individual debate between the Members continues, of course I do not have, so I ask for so much understanding so that the meeting can be convened in such a way that all 90 can be heard among themselves. A colleague of Zagorac applied to explain the vote in his own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u239	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable present. I'm not going to object to the bill alone. The whole debate today revolved around one article, while the law among others, in particular with the improvements that we have proposed in the Slovenian National Party and have encountered support in this National Assembly, also introduces some other solutions. As far as the so-called and highly-sung "hore legalis" is concerned, I do not see it as such, I see it as possible to prevent access to alcohol after 12 p.m., not to adolescents, as some people like to say, but to children under 16 years of age, these are children, not adolescents, teenagers become then. When someone tells them that they are denied access to various cultural and public events in Slovenia - for example, one will now, we know, start in Maribor tomorrow - no one is forbidden access to this cultural event or concert. I must say that I often go to the Lent Festival myself, which has been mentioned, but I tell you that there has not been a cultural event in any of the restaurants so far, but mainly the thirst has been extinguished either with alcoholic or non-alcoholic drinks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u240	Thank you. Mr Bajc will explain the vote of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u241	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I must say that I was confused about the vote, and I voted against one of the few that we have always advocated this law and this amendment. [[Laugh.]] Alcohol policy makers agree that measures aimed only at young people, without a wider view of the whole population, are doomed to success. I think that's what you mentioned in the debate today. "Young people inherit beer behavior from their parents, so it is essential to change the attitude of the environment and society towards this problem in order to create a safer social environment for young people." That is why I also said in my views that this country, this national assembly and all the authorities will have to contribute to the fact that young people will not only be partying at events where alcoholic beverages are brewing, but that they will be able to have the same party, but that the organizer of this party will not have to sell alcohol to pay off the performers. Next: "Old age restrictions have an important role to play in drinking alcoholic beverages." In professional literature, there is a clear consensus on the claim that the legal provisions on changing age limits have a very significant impact on whether or not. And just a few more details, because you said we'd avoid being that we're that we're third. "In France, minors under the age of 16 who are not accompanied by parents and responsible persons do not have the right to enter in the inn where alcoholic beverages are poured." So they don't. It's not like we wrote, from 24.00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m. "In Ireland, the owner of a restaurant shall not allow a minor below the age of 18 to attend a restaurant. The exception applies, for example, to minors accompanied by adults. In the Federal Republic of Germany, children and minors under the age of 16 may not be present in catering establishments unless they meet certain other conditions, for example if they are accompanied by parents. Adolescents up to the age of 16, 18 who are absent from their parents or caregivers must not be in the inn." And today it has been said, "In Spain, minors under the age of 18 are forbidden to enter discotheques and bars and similar facilities." In short, we will not discover or adopt anything new today if we adopt such a provision as that of many countries of the European Union, where we say that democracy is significantly greater than that of us. That's why I'm gonna push twice, if possible, for the marriage, because I'm no longer in favour of the amendment itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u242	Thank you. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Comrade Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u243	Thank you very much. I will vote against, among other things, because not only are older examples of young people, some older children even get soaked in schnops to sleep before they can go out drinking alone. The next thing I want to say is that according to the data that the police are reporting in the building, there is an increase in violence not against minors, but against minors. Police report that the number of violations in catering facilities and public events is decreasing, and it is increasing where you drive them, in the streets and in apartments. The report suggests that the number of offences committed by minors has decreased by 15%. The report states that the number of crime elements committed by young people has decreased by 16.6%. For all of this because there are fewer and fewer violations, we need to tie them to a home where violence is committed against them. And if you ask the police, the police probably think that teenagers are balms for their work, so little work they have to do with them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u244	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the explanation on behalf of the delegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u245	Thank you for your word. So we in the parliamentary group think that this is not a "hora legalis", but there is a certain limit. Those of us who have some year more than those minors, we've experienced a real "horo legalis" and you'll probably remember that in school we got that or they got the rebuttal if they found you after 10:00 outside, and no matter what situation you were in, whether you were sober or drunk, of course you were drunk or not. But it was, so it's not "hora legalis." This is a certain approach, and it is true that this is not such a liberal approach that children can do whatever they want. The fact is something else, not long ago, when we had a debate in this room about violence against minors, we had a very specific area, and then, if I recall, one of them was running after that, given that you are today against any restrictions, real demagogy. But where a child can experience the greatest violence, if not in a place where everyone is stoned, where no one knows what he is doing or what he is doing. I'm sorry, that's just the way it is. And I don't understand you, if you were then to increase the various punishments and what kind of concern it was, but today you would simply send them to places where they could drink as much as anyone would like without any control, that somehow doesn't work. The fact is that we are not going to invent anything new, that other countries already have a much stricter one, before it starts, that time at 12:00, and they're not just limiting what happened to us, so we're not a police state, as I can read on the Internet today, to prepare a police state for such a restriction, far away from it. This is also the responsibility of the owners' locals, if Lip was the owner of the place, it would probably not have happened, and we forgot that again when that happened, but we had a full mouth and some ears about what didn't happen, what would be good, we all knew everything. But when we come to a specific situation, how can we improve something to avoid, not save, but avoid, and then every measure is too much. It is also true that other jobs were canceled there, and it is true that this law alone will not save everything. But if this is going to be one stone and if, say, some other things are to be arranged as they should be in this spirit, then I imagine and in the group of Members, we imagine that some small contribution will also be made by this marriage solution, and that is why we will support such a law. But we agree that this law alone will not save everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u246	Thank you. Voice explanation, Anton Kokalj, on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u247	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u248	The New Slovenia Group will support the law. We believe that after 30 years, it is time for the marriage to be updated in the light of the new situation. No marriage, we know it's not ideal, it wasn't before and it's not now, but it's a good marriage. Article 21 - we believe that the minimal contribution of this country is to take responsibility for what has helped parents to loosen everything about education by other means, and we are confident that to some extent the implementation of this Article will help to ensure that at least a few fewer adolescents reach early contact with alcohol to such an extent that they will then be hampered by further healthy development. The reference to legislation already adopted, which is restrictive enough, seems to us in principle to be in place, but of course it is unacceptable that it has not been implemented, and we also expect that this government, with its team, will also be implementing the legislation already adopted by the current opposition. We think that, in this combination, there is a very important and visible effect on what we want to do, it is preventive to take care of our young people, who are increasingly under the influence of the external environment and increasingly under the influence of their own family. That's just the situation in the modern world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u249	Thank you. Explanation of vote, Member Christian Janc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u250	Thank you, Chairman. I will gladly support this marriage simply because it is our children, who, in my deep belief between midnight and five o'clock in the morning for our children, stress - they have nothing to do in the nighttime places where alcohol is consumed, where illicit substances are consumed, and where, we have said many times today, nothing smart and positive is happening for our youth. For most Slovenian children and families and parents, this measure will mean nothing. Perhaps we can help someone with this measure, a parent, a minor, a child, and take a step further. I would say, however, that all that we have heard today, with this action in Europe, is nothing new. In Slovenia, too, we do something as small and as ugly as some of you talk about this measure, I do not think it is acceptable. Dear Mr Rezman, it might be good to visit a few nights and sightseeing after midnight and perhaps see what's going on in there. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u251	Thank you. Explanation of the voice, colleague of Victory Jelinčič Nobleni. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I'm concerned that some colleagues, we're sorting out DeSUS, actually want to show these nightclubs as some kind of educational institution, claiming that more than children at home are more vulnerable to violence. In fact, I'm worried that someone is talking about what it's like to paraphrase a little bit more dangerous for a child in his home than in a restaurant after ten o'clock. I don't understand that very well. Maybe it's a new direction in DeSUS now that you've decided to do so, because it's a retirement party, and you want to rejuvenate or something, but gentlemen, we're taking one serious law and I'm going to back it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u253	Thank you. We continue to explain the voice. Comrade Paula Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u254	Thank you. I will also personally vote against the law. However, I would like to say here, of course, that I would like to deal with an argument that often occurs here, that they also have such an arrangement elsewhere, and that our friends are from coalition parties, that they have such an order in Germany, in Spain, I have already proved that it is not, and other countries. Of course, this argument is invalid, invalid, that's an argument you can't refer to, that's about as much as if there were 10 people to convince someone, let's say I jump into a dive with an argument that 10 other people have already jumped into failure. No, thank you and good morning, Mr. Jelinčič, of course. That's the first thing. This argument is invalid logically and substantively, so do not operate with it. And another argument, which I would say in this regard, is that, if you want to have an arrangement from Germany, maybe it is better in Poland, I don't know if you are willing to buy for this price also the youth and juvenile problems they have in Germany, or are willing to accept, I don't know what sharp system of prohibitions to have more deviantities and negative phenomena and other things that are not good for society as a whole, for its health, but especially for minors. If this is what you want, then say that you want to compare yourself with the more advanced countries in everything, even in bad qualities, and that you want to accept such a solution. The discussion has shown that the profession in Europe says that repression does not help enough or that it does not help at all and that it is necessary to have some other methods, and you want to get away from it in course to be like an ideal, even though it brings bad qualities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u255	Thank you. Explanation of voice. Aleš Gulič.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u256	Dear Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellows, this is the third time that I have spoken about this law. I will not support the marriage because of some weaknesses that have remained after the second reading and have not been cleared up. This is mainly the part where criminal and criminal legislation is mixed, but of course this is a particular reason for this confusion, which has been recorded in relation to minors or under 16 years of age and from midnight to five in the morning. In Slovenia, the law prohibiting the sale of drinks is applicable to all minors under 18 years of age, 24 hours a day. Why don't we do it or why we don't know if it's being implemented, that's another thing, but we're not going to do it with a new mess. I am sure that there was no confusion in proposing this amendment, only in the vote, but it was already on the rise that already there was no really knowing what to do, but it sounded good and it might have seemed that, in the case of Lip, there were political points to be dialed. Tomorrow will be the end of the night, and I recommend that you suggest that you go into the forest, catch some kind of antique seed, so that you know what you've actually suggested to understand, at least yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u257	Thank you. The last on the list of applicants, of course so far, Member Slavinec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Of course, I do not intend to support this law, as we have already heard, because of the failure to enforce one law; I am now supposed to adopt another, whose implementation will be even more questionable or even more unfulfilled or at least superficial. And that's why I'm not going to support it either, because so written-down law leads to many strange situations. Let's say someone who can already be employed from the age of 15, and then can't go to a New Year's final party, if he's under 16 years of age, for example, just one concrete case that can happen. I am aware that the laws are, of course, written on average, but we must also think of such special cases, which certainly limit some normal rights, and it is not necessary for them to be in a bar where alcoholic beverages are brewing, to drink them, that they are entitled to join certain activities that are going on there and that they are being tried. And it is precisely because of such anomalies that this law does not make sense to me and I do not intend to support it, and I suggest that you think similarly to everyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u259	Thank you. Explanation of voice. Emissary Marjetka Uhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u260	Thank you very much. I will support this marriage because I am convinced that it is also good because of this article, which says that children, babies, those who we infuse with paws or give them a snorkeling, belong to the bar. I think as New Slovenia's Member that children belong after midnight to the shelter of the family, parents and caregivers, if they do not have parents and guardians. Parents, guardians need to know what a 12-year-old kid was doing out there after midnight. For their own good, it would be better for you to defend that they belong not only at home but in bed. The second day is school, the second day is commitment, and if there are such cases, they should be under parental supervision. I can't believe you're wasting your time like this without the public thinking that we've really legitimized what I know, sex pornography in front of a police officer in front of parliament. Don't talk nonsense, but you better tell me what we wrote in this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u261	Comrade Rezman, please, if you will calm down, you have no say, Mrs Uhan is the only one who has a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u262	I will also be happy to support the marriage in the hope that there will be more order among young people.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u263	Thank you, Ambassador Uhan. Milan Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u264	Thank you, Vice President. It is so nice to speak and listen in as beelike an atmosphere as it is today in this debate, and it is interesting to know how some of the debates have not been debated, but today all the minds of these debates have become apparent, as was one of the Members, but we are going to the law. Of course, I will not support this law, I have told myself several times in the debate why, I will not repeat this, but I would like to draw attention to one detail of how, in fact, this law will not be able to be controlled or implemented. In Maribor tomorrow we start the Lent Festival. By the way, it's being opened by Prime Minister Janša. This Lent has one long street. There's a bunch of places on this long street. As it may seem, we will have to take care of order and peace so that these young ones can walk the street by 16 years old, but someone will have to worry at the doors of the restaurants on this long street that they do not accidentally enter one of the fenced areas in which alcohol is poured. That, gentlemen, is physically impossible. This can only be accepted by those who are "planned" in their village, in their environments in which nothing happens. This cannot be accepted by those who live in touristic places where life happens at night, where life is not connected to home, but to the entertainment and joy of those who know how to calm their passions and their needs for alcohol, even in places where alcohol is poured. Therefore, the law is full of absurdities. In addition to those already mentioned, these absurdities, which I have illustrated with two examples, are such that the law will simply not be implemented. That is why we think that the law is nonconsistence, does not bring any solutions, except that you are bluffing Slovenian voters, whom some of you have to report with empty promises and empty guarantees as to how you will create order and peace. Sorry, I don't think you're gonna make it. I will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u265	We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. 44 votes to 31. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda - addressing the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the adult education law. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since it was not possible to table amendments in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. It's 57 votes to 10. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 15th item of the agenda - dealing with the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act is not suitable for further consideration. An explanation of vote, Comrade Cwickl, on behalf of the Group of Members? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u266	We will vote against the decision of the home labour body in the Liberal Democracy Chamber. We believe that the law is suitable for further consideration because, on a proposal from the Council of State, we are correcting by law what Mr Janša and Mr Bajuk introduced in this law at the end of 2005. The law has abolished the threshold for taxation of interest. As of 1 January 2007, a large part of the Slovenians and Slovenk will start paying interest. As of 1 December 2008, we will pay EUR 1 per 5 interest to Slovenia. We have said that even though the ruling coalition itself wanted to correct its mistake in November 2005 with the amendment, today this law is rejected mainly because it is a proposal for a state council. The Council of State only wanted to propose that, as in a number of European countries, there is a threshold of little more than EUR 1000 for untaxed interest in Slovenia. That would be a good solution. This is the solution that was in force in the legislation that was adopted during the previous government, and the proposal by Mr Bajuk was abolished. And Slovenians and Slovenes will remain committed to paying interest. Otherwise, you say you'll fix it when you fix it. However, when connecting applications, people decide for a longer period and we regret that after you have expelled some owners from Slovenian banks, you are now driving away long-term savers. Every Slovenian, every saver in Slovenian banks will remain liable to pay interest if you judge today that the law is not appropriate. It's a bad policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u267	Thank you. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. My friend Cyril Testen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u268	Thank you for your word. Look, I already said in my presentation of the delegation's position that, in our opinion, the Committee's decision is correct, especially because the taxation of interest of more than 300,000, which is set in 2005 and also in 2006 as a cheddar, is said to be 15% tax, under the previous law adopted in 2004 by the previous LDS-led government, between 16 and 50%. It is said that those lowest layers would pay 16 in income, but those with large salaries could also pay 50% of the tax on those interest that is above 300,000. That is why we believe that the cedral way of taxation is right and we support it in this way. We also support it because we believe that all types of capital revenues in taxation must be equalised. Maybe one more word to say as far as it's concerned. There was also a lot of talk about the tax on the interest on denationalising beneficiaries. We are in the process of preparing the budget. A compromise has been reached. The previous law on denationalisation is that interest should not be taxed. It was also agreed several times that denationalisation should be completed. I'm sorry it didn't end. I think that these beneficiaries are rightly waiting for at least the full taxation of these interest rates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u269	Thank you. Comrade Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u270	Thank you very much. I will vote against the decision of my mother's working body myself. Simply because I think that the proposal of the State Council was good. I believe that the threshold for taxation of interest is that the solution proposed at the time by the Government of Rob is significantly better than that proposed by the Government of Janša. Simply because you have a bunch of cases of small small savings, as we say, saving for either age or purpose and at the threshold of 300,000 tolars. If the interest rate is 4%, all deposits of up to 7.5 million tolars are not taxed. And those above that threshold were taxed. If the interest rate is 3%, all deposits of up to 10 million tolar are not taxed. So that's some threshold. The second fact that this proposal by the National Assembly was good is that we will have a 3% interest rate and 2.5% inflation will now actually have negative interest rates. The real value of money will go down even if you save on banks. This simply shows the calculation because at 2.5% inflation you will actually be taxed 20% at 3% interest rates and you will have a return of 2.4%, which means you will lose by saving. That's why what this government stands for is bad. The third thing I want to stress, however, is the denationalisation bond issue. Once again, this is not an ideological question. It is that we are all citizens in the same position. I really don't get it. Why is it that someone who has a 6% return rate, which is 100% more than a return on bank deposits, why does it not have to pay interest taxes and has 50% relief, but all the other citizens who save on banks are taxed 20%, and there is no threshold for taxation? So here I think this government is making a big mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u271	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. 40 votes against 36. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on higher education. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We have two amendments tabled by Article 5. We will decide first on the amendment under order number 1 – the amendment of the parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy. In doing so, I remind you that, if the amendment is adopted, the amendment under order number 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 41. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the same Article 5. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 41. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 7 and to decision-making. I'm sorry. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group to Article 6. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 39. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. And we are moving on to Article 7 and to a decision on the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 33, 40 votes against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 10 and the two amendments. We will first vote or decide on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group. In doing so, I inform you that, if the amendment is adopted, the amendment under order number 2 becomes irrelevant. Voice explanation, mag. Spending. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u272	Thank you. I expect the amendment to Article 10 to receive support. This is because in no way changes what the Minister for Higher Education has announced, but helps to make more clarity and not the possibility of reinterpreting the entry of Article 10 of the Law. Our amendment merely says that the funding for the study activity is fully provided for the first and second degrees in the state budget. Now it says that for the first and second stages they are provided in the national budget. We believe that this supplement, that it is a first and second degree and that it is fully ensured that the text cannot be interpreted in any other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u273	Thank you. Voice explanation, colleague gaber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u274	Mr Vice-President, on behalf of the Group of Members. We will support this supplement. The truth is that it doesn't matter which one of them is accepted. It is good to realize, however, that the formulation, as now stated in the article, is very open. Funds may be earmarked for both stages of Bologna, but the question is at what level. Perhaps the article should also be interpreted in such a way that this height is very acceptable. As our complement, as well as the addition of colleagues and colleagues from the Social Democratic Party, clearly states that this is what you are saying in the coalition, that you intend to fully finance these studies at both levels, given that the law - I suppose - will be adopted and will also be adopted by Article 15, which will also guide everyone to studying at both levels, I would ask if you can support this in the interests of clarity.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u275	Thank you. Mag. Capuder, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u276	Thank you very much. We will not support this complement in our parliamentary group, because if we read the current Article 10 as proposed, it says: "The resources for the study activity are provided for the first and second stages in the state budget as common funds for the university or the university and so on." I find this doctrine very clear, and it doesn't need any addition. For I am sure that this can be interpreted by many as including extraordinary studies and I cannot support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u277	Thank you. And an explanation of the voice, Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Well, I'll support the amendment myself. In fact, it does not matter who, in fact, the two amendments are which lead to a more clear dictatorship under this Article. The fact is that, as Dr. Gaber has already said before me, the existing doctrine is too open. You know, according to experience, over-opened dictions lead to anomalies that the government or the individual ministry allows under individual regulations. Finally, one of these regulations, and I am sorry that the Minister is not with us at this time, is a government regulation adopted on 5 May 2006 when it comes to literal degradation in the framework of qualification, namely the 7th degree to 6th grade vocational programme. This is due to too many open and unclear dictatorships, so I will support this amendment myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u279	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. So we will vote first on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 10. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 36 votes and 40 against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[There were 40 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. And we are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2, namely the amendment of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 40. [[The vote was 32.]] [[There were 40 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am pleased to inform you that the amendment to Article 13 has become irrelevant because we have not accepted the amendments to Articles 5, 6 and 7. We have ended our vote on the amendments and thus a second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. Since the amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. In the third reading of the amendments, it is not possible to invest, so we are moving on to a decision on the law as a whole. At the same time, I inform you that the legislature and the government have not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. So we're voting on the whole law. Before that, the explanation for the voice. Comrade Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u280	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President! A respected choir! This meeting of the National Assembly will be recorded in Slovenian parliamentary history as a meeting that is strongly opposed to the student organisation or - we can say better - against the student generation. As early as Monday, the government coalition changed the procedural decision of the College of the National Assembly concerning two laws, which also deal with better conditions of study and students in higher schools and universities. Well, yesterday we witnessed an entirely unnecessary restriction on student work, which allows many students to learn and survive. Today it is the turn of the novel of the law on higher education, which is practically not in line with any of the main partners in higher education or with the student organisation. However, the development partnership also failed in this law. After the end of the dialogue between the government and the student organisation, the events in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by insisting on the government are a poor journey for the future of our future generations of schooling, so of course I will vote against the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u281	Thank you. A voice explanation, Member Slavko Gaber, on behalf?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u282	Yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u283	Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u284	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are adopting a very important law. As my colleague Sam Bevk has already said, it is so clear from the moon that he is incoherent and that the issues we are dealing with with this law are very serious that it is far better for this law if it remains at this point and is not confirmed. It is best for very different parts of the population in this country. The law has a non-refundable clause in Article 15. It can't be fixed. If he's not accepted, there'll be no harm. The Agency and the whole system of quality assurance and establishment in higher education can be established under the old law. While we are far from knowing exactly how to arrange for the matching of old and new addresses, and because we do not know how to do so, we are working with the law. That's very convenient, but everything before good behavior.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u285	Thank you. Procedurally, Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u286	Thank you so much for your words, Mr President! I must say that I miss the presence of the Minister at the meeting itself or the representative of the Ministry. During the debate itself, or specifically, when we moved to the voting point, there was a new moment, or I would like an explanation. Since I waited, I also looked in the House of State, which is reserved for representatives of the government, but unfortunately I did not come or came to the locked door, I would like a 10-minute recess and, at that time, the Minister's presence, if possible, or the Ministry's representative, to explain certain questions or answers questions as to whether we are deciding on the law in the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u287	I'm afraid I can't please you here. According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Minister or a government representative may not discuss the votes, so his presence here can be exclusively visual and cannot be an audio. Anyone else? Explanation of voice. No, no, no. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u288	Thank you very much. I'm just going to give a negative explanation for the vote, I'm sorry. But I would still like an explanation from the minister. It's not necessarily in the session itself. In particular, it is a question that depends on how we vote in the Slovenian National Party. We don't have to get an answer to the question at the session itself, we can get past the microphone if you understand what I'm saying. If I don't get the Minister's explanation, I'm just going to vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u289	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting on the law. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. 43 votes against 24. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We are moving on to the continuation of the 19th item on the agenda - to consider the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and insurance. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since it was not possible to table an amendment in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. At the same time, I also inform you that the legislature and the government have not informed me that the law would not be harmonised. We're voting on the law. There are 74 Members and Members present. He voted 72 against no one. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20A. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Proposal for a Law on State Border Control - Urgent Procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u290	Good day again. Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, Members, Your Honor! By supplementing the state border control law, we will be given the appropriate legal basis for closing border traffic communications.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u291	Please allow me to reach inside. I ask those Members or Members who are not interested in the subject to leave the Chamber and leave the Government representative to give a basic explanation. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Border traffic communications are those uncategorised roads and roads that run across the border with neighbouring Croatia, where there are no border crossings. These communications will be closed, for example by physical closures or by pouring out grammes or by other obstacles. The closure of border traffic communications is one way of protecting the state border and thus preventing irregular migration and other cross-border crime, such as smuggling of prohibited items across the state border. Therefore, the Government proposes to supplement the law on State border control. Ensuring effective control of the state border is one of the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia as a member of the European Union, which it must fulfil if it is to become part of the Schengen area. The proposed law also regulates the appropriate legal regulation of land status on which prisoners or other obstacles to the closure of border traffic communications at the national border will be placed. The list of sites or land where obstacles will be put in place will be determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal of the expert working group. The proposed law provides that before the works are started with landowners, service contracts will be concluded in accordance with the rules governing real-law relations also in accordance with the rules governing the decommissioning and limitation of property rights. However, the conclusion of the service contracts will also provide a basis for the execution of the works I initially mentioned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u293	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ambassador Anton Kokalj will move the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u294	Very briefly. Given that we are committed by entering the European Union to respect the Schengen acquis, to prepare ourselves seriously for this and that this law is only part of the preparation for the adoption of this Schengen acquis by specifically regulating transport communications at the border with Croatia, the New Slovenia Group supports such legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u295	Thank you. Ambassador Franz Kangler will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u296	Thank you for your word. When we adopt a law on State border control, we adopt it as a matter of urgency. The change concerns in particular the regulation of those transport communication systems at the border with the Republic of Croatia which are not in the function of cross-border transport. The adoption of the law is necessary to meet all the conditions or standards of Schengen control outside the European Union's borders. Of course, the change is also subject to the substantive fact that control of irregular crossings is very difficult at the moment, as there are very many transport links at the border between the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia, but they are not intended for cross-border transport. The proposed law, according to the SLS Group, also regulates the remaining issues related to the prisons, in particular the competent authorities and the regulation of ownership of landowners' legal issues. We will support this bill in the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u297	Thank you. Member Vila Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u298	Thank you very much. The state border control law is short, it has three articles. These articles discuss border traffic communications, domestically, inmates who are not in the function of cross-border transport. It'll work. For restrictions, for all, for those of old age, for those of old age, for those who are accompanied or without an escort, for those who have a hook in their pocket, and those who have no cord in their pocket. That's why DeSUS will support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u299	Thank you. Here comes a presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members of Parliament, Mr Dimitri Kovacic, to present the position. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u300	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support the proposed amendments and additions to the state border control law. While the draft law is a matter of minor changes, it is essential to fulfil one of the obligations set out in the implementation plan for the implementation of the Schengen standards for the control of the future external borders of the European Union. This implementation plan represents an operational programme of measures to be implemented by the Republic of Slovenia in order to fully implement the Schengen acquis and technical standards for external border control. This year, it will be seen how Schengen standards are being applied in the new Member States of the European Union. It will be noted what is the effectiveness of the protection of the external border between the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia. The former common life in one country has created transport communications at the border between the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia, which took place from the territory of one to the territory of the other because of the needs of the local population. Of course, this situation now needs to be fully regulated in accordance with the standards and also in the way of life. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are aware that the external borders of the European Union, that is, those bordering on third countries, must be specifically protected and prevented by the various illegal transitions and other crime that can take place there. It is also true that, due to historical circumstances, the border between the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia is something special, since people live and work at the border both on the one hand and on the other. For this reason, the border issues of many transport communications between countries need to be addressed as far as possible in life and in the interests of good neighbourly relations. At the same time, we must fully comply with the obligations required of us by the rules of the European Union relating to the fulfilment of the Schengen standards. Therefore, the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u301	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. So we're moving on to a second reading of the bill. As no amendment has been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, we are moving on to a full decision on the law. At the same time, I inform you that, even under this point, the legislature and the government have not informed me that the law would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a full vote on the law. Explanation of voice. Comrade Trofenic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u302	Thank you for your word. Since the procedure does not allow for discussion, I have no choice but to say in explanation of vote that the matter is not as simple as it seems. This law will hurt some deeply. And I'm very negative about how "shampast" is a written definition, because border traffic communication is a non-categorised road and so on. It will be very interesting to see how the executive authority will react when it has to put prisoners on public categorised routes. The list of envisaged prisons is drawn up. Some of our citizens will also have to unlock two prisons each day on their way to their own homes, on public categorised routes. I understand that the applicant is looking for a legal basis for the most elegant establishment of prisoners. However, I would like to point out that this will result in a host of problems that will fundamentally affect the quality of life for our citizens at the border, and that the definition of the 12th point will not hold up. That is why, of course, I will not support the law, in particular because both the statements of financial consequences and certain objectives are beyond reality, because only costs will be an important cost of service. The statement of financial consequences is irresponsible and unrealistic when it comes to making such a serious law. It is, of course, possible to conclude that our promises, when SOPS came into force and the actual implementation of the Schengen criteria, have come into severe conflict or have deceived people in the past. I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u303	Comrade Trofenik, every qualified candidate, including the parliamentary groups, had the opportunity to amend the law at second reading. No one has taken this right from either the parliamentary groups or the national assembly, and thus does not have the right to amend the law. Comrade Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u304	I'd like to say I'll back up the government. I will support her because she proposed a law whose restrictions will be valid before 24.00 and after 24.00 p.m. and will not discriminate against anyone. And since the government has proposed such a non-discriminatory law, I will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u305	Thank you. Comrade Sok, explain your voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u306	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like a word. So in New Slovenia we will support this law, even though we are aware of these problems, which were pointed out by our fellow Member Trofenik. Because I come from a border area myself, I know that this law will bring with it many problems. However, I wonder whether at this point Slovenia can act differently. So it's on the ruling coalition that this law is passed. Members of the opposition can vote against it peacefully and thus gain some ratings. But that's not the answer. That's what I'm saying. We have warned many times, and I think that there should also be additional means for government representatives to resolve problems in those municipalities where these problems exist. And the congregation of Ormož, from which we come, is one of those congregations that have problems in this area. It is true that some will have to open and close these prisons twice as a result of the establishment of prisons - including two prisons, i.e. when they go from Slovenia to Croatia and then back from Croatia to Slovenia. Such a solution is, of course, unacceptable to us. That is why we will demand that these problems be solved by individuals who exist. Of course, they can be saved by building an additional road to these homes. I, as a representative of the government of this city, remind you of this. I propose and demand that this problem be approached and resolved in such a way. To provide funds. Of course, the congregation will not be able to pass. Dad's got to be a part of this. Some congregations have solved these problems in the past. I know that some congregations have solved these problems. Not all of them. Clearly, the congregations did not realize that this would happen, and they did not do so in an appropriate way. I'd like to finish with that. Aware of this problem, however, he said that we have no choice but to vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u307	Thank you. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u308	The fact is that we decided on the Schengen regime when we entered the European Union. Well, now it's a matter of respect. The limit is one way or another. In general, this border towards Croatia is extremely porous and open to all possible smuggling, for all possible drug transports, explosives, weapons and so on. It is therefore high time that this limit is controlled and these crossings are also controlled. I don't think marriage is that rigid. I think it would be wiser to be even more rigorous. After all, that the interstate or international transitions that we now have with neighbouring Croatia should be a whole series so that, apart from three, we can actually turn them all into interstates. However, it is not that those who go to Croatia are actually winding up in Slovenia and then spending money in Croatia. I think it would be even more necessary to tighten up. However, one segment is certainly opening up here, which must be solved by the Slovenian state. To enable transport routes on the Slovenian side between certain farms, which now need to come to Slovenia or to reach a neighbour, to cross the Slovenian-Croatian border once or twice or more. This is what the Slovenian state must solve. Otherwise, we will absolutely support the law. If there is ever again a law that will tighten these matters, we will be happy to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u309	Comrade Trofenik, you've already given an explanation on your behalf and, of course, I can't give you one more time unless you've changed your mind. So, we're going to the vote. Look, Comrade Trofenik, you've been in Parliament as long as we've all been in this mandate. You know that the first position of the Group of Members can be given, and only then in its own name. This time we will not change the practice as we have not. That's why I won't give you my word. We're moving on with our positions. Comrade Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u310	Thank you, Mr. President. It is indeed right that the position of the groups of Members should first be presented. However, this was not always a rule and was laid down as a rule. If we have authorized our Member of Trofenik to present, in addition to his position, the position of the Group of Members, please allow him to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u311	Look, I can't do this in particular right now, because you've taken advantage of the institution of explanation of the Group of Members, so I've also given you time so that I'm sorry on the other hand. We're moving to the vote. My friend Ljubo Germich, on his own behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u312	Procedurally, Mr. Chairman. Look, you were in charge of the meeting earlier, at one of the points very wide and allowed the debate to be assessed as a very important topic. I think we are now considering a proposal for a law supplementing the law on State border control. It seems to me - Mr President - that we could in the same way assess that this is a very important issue and that the LDS Group could have the opportunity to present its position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u313	Comrade Germich, look. I am truly sorry, but your fellow Member, Paula Gantar, used the option of the Institute of Voting on behalf of the parliamentary group before you. If he didn't do it, he got three minutes. You know that 3 minutes is more than 2 minutes to explain the Member's voice. We're moving on to a decision on the law. Comrade Squeakle, would you like?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u314	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u315	Sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u316	I do not approve of what you are doing, Mr President, because nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it say which opinion is earlier. But, if you'll excuse me, I'll give you my opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u317	Will you give me an explanation? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u318	I think it would be considered that someone else would look and explain their voice in their own name, because this is the only option that was given after the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided to bring this law into the National Assembly following an emergency procedure. The reason for this is very simple. We walked across the border with some of the Members of that time or along a border where this decision will have a very important impact. I regret, of course, that at the time of the sale between the old and the new government, sir, now the former Secretary of State, Marcel Coprol, did not understand that the issue of the Schengen border and the establishment of internal coordination between the ministries regarding the Schengen border is one of the more important issues. By the way, this is not the end of 2006, but maybe the end of 2007 or 2008 will take over the Schengen Order. Today you have brought a law by emergency procedure, with which you are actually introducing quite a novelty. There was not enough time to submit all the arguments. You see when we're discussing him today. I'm not supporting the law myself, because I think the law is creating more problems at the border. It is questionable how it complies with the law on a small-border agreement. I believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we are talking about the service of the Government, the Ministry of the Interior, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has not played the role that it should play in this law. And this is to find for the field, for the people living along the border, the most appropriate solution. Of course, this law will create more problems than it tries to solve.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u319	Because I don't want us to break up in a misunderstanding. Dear colleagues and colleagues of the Liberal Democracy! The law was opened at second reading. The time for discussion has run out; 10 Members in second reading could table an amendment to Article 1 or 2 and thus open the debate. The same could happen in the third reading with a qualified proposer, a parliamentary group. Do not take advantage of the Rules of Procedure and do not use your explanations of vote to ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia if you missed the opportunity during the debate. This is not correct, from this place I have to defend the government to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Comrade Rob, explanation for the voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u320	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! I'm very sorry that he's going through such complications. I think that if there was a little more tolerance, maybe even correctness, even elasticity, it would be much easier for me to conduct these meetings both yesterday and today. So there is nothing left for me and the House of Members, and I'm very sorry that I'm going to ask you to take a 15-minute break to consult at the House of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u321	Comrade Rob, of course this is your decision and your right. We will continue to explain our voices because after the break, I will no longer allow this option. Comrade Slavinac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u322	I've applied for a word before, if you don't mind. No, I raised my hand, and I never got a chance to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u323	Your fellow Member, Tone Rop, was ahead of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u324	I raised my hand earlier. I just want to explain why I raised my hand. I wanted to apply procedurally to read Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure, which reads: "The representative of the parliamentary group may explain the vote of the parliamentary group before the final vote - I stress - before the final vote on the motion for a decision. His speech may take up to three minutes. Second point. The Member shall have the right before the final vote on the motion for a decision to explain his vote. His speech may take up to 2 minutes." So, nowhere explicitly does it say what kind of explanation each other must be. For this reason, I remind you once again that your decision was not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Maybe that's the way it is. But this does not mean that the proposal of Comrade Trofenik is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In order to avoid unnecessary breaks, I propose that you correct your opinion in the interests of all of us here and in the interests of the well-being or respect of the Rules of Procedure and colleague Trofenik, allow him to explain his vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Even more - please, if you calm down - so much more, because the situation has changed because of this, because of the new facts it makes so much sense. And I propose this proposal for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u325	Comrade Slavinac, you know, I believe you were present, but the institute of explanations of vote on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group has taken advantage of your fellow Member, Paula Gantar. Is there any other explanation for the voice? [[It's not.]] I will then take into account the procedural proposal made by the leader of the Liberal Democracy Group, Mr Tonet Rope, and the orders. How many minutes did you say? 15 minutes. I hereby adjourn the session and proceed at 6.35 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u326	We shall proceed with the adjournment of the sitting and the adjournment of the agenda. On a procedural proposal, we had a 15-minute rest for the head of the Toneto Ropa Group. Will the Liberal Democracy Group say what position does it have before the full vote on the law? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u327	Thank you for your word. In the Group of Members, we have consulted on the situation that has arisen when the Vice-President did not give the floor to explain the position of the Group of Members on such an important issue, at first glance it is possible only a technical law, which will fundamentally cut into the daily lives of some of our citizens. Let me draw attention to the fact that in the Group of Members we find that the law is necessary, but very superficially and irregularly prepared, which will lead to additional difficulties in achieving it. The first problem stems from an inadequate and inadequate definition under point 12. Border traffic communication is a categorised road or road. If we use other dictions from laws that talk about roads, this means that it is exclusively private roads and communications, not public roads. At the border with the Republic of Croatia are the paths of both species, both public and domestically, private. And according to this law, it will not be possible to put prisoners and other obstacles on public roads, although the draft of these sites has already been prepared by the relevant expert commission and presented to the public. Therefore, this law will not be able to realize the wishes or requirements of the Schengen Agreement. Of course, it must be acknowledged that the Schengen Agreement or the commitments under the Schengen Agreement and what comes after the SOPS are in a conflict situation, which must be made clear to the people affected. Of course, an exclusive desire to get to the legal basis for making these obstacles or prisons as easy as possible cannot justify the procedure, speed and surface of reception. And it is not about not respecting international obligations such as the Schengen Agreement. It is also a matter of respecting the rights of domestic citizens and not needlessly harming their everyday lives. In fact, this law means that a worker from Mura, who will return from the second shift at night, will stop in the woods, in the dark, open with a key to the prison, lock up the prison, reopen the prison in a few hundred yards, and lock it up again. And it's on your own private land. We cannot support this law because better and better solutions were possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u328	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. The vote was 45 to 23. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to a follow-up to item 5 of the agenda - this is at the third reading of the draft law on mandatory copies of publications. On Tuesday 20 June of this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments were adopted to the amended proposal, the amendment cannot be tabled in the third reading. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are moving on to a decision on the law. On the basis of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal service and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law, due to the legal body of the amendments adopted, would not be harmonised. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Madam Ambassador Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u329	On behalf of the Group of Members. For in the LDS Group, we were quite serious about this law and even favored it in some respects. A great deal of absurdity has emerged in this law, which, by the way, you have dealt with with and supported with with great ease with your left hand and great ease. A few years ago in this place and in this context, for you, colleagues and colleagues of the ruling government, the book was a great shrine, today it has become a treasure for you. Years ago, you strongly advocated that the book be given relief, today you threaten it with a single tax rate and a heavy burden. A few years ago, you stood up for a book fund. Today you're just taking on a fund for media pluralisation. And a few years ago, you stood up for zero for the book, and today, thousands of signatories who want to do so are not responding at all. But in this law, which is important, you are jeopardising the book in such a way as to take away from regional general education libraries the once established mandatory copy, which has significantly enriched general education libraries also at regional level. There was, of course, some kind of duty, but a duty for which the State decided with some consensus to be a positive tax for study, for education, for bibliography and for accessibility. Now there will be fewer mandatory copies and only four. However, mandatory copies will only be those co-financed by the State or local and other communities. There will be discrimination between the librarians themselves. Libraries will have less money. At the same time, less study material and information material, so that all those from remote locations will have to go to Ljubljana for this information. And because, above all, you have not supported our efforts to at least replace this deficit in the budget, because you have not supported it, we cannot support your solution either. Please, I'm sorry that your friends and allies and once also political or today political supporters in the round of the magazine don't see this drawback. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u330	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. It's 46 votes against 17. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 7th item of the agenda - second reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the electoral law to the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. Before taking this decision, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 80, paragraph 4, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the amendment will be adopted if it is voted on by 2/3 Members, that is 60 or more Members. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the substantive amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats to Article 10. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 44. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The assembly will have a third reading of the bill, i.e. only a vote on the law at the next meeting of the assembly. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: The draft law for the third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 3. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 18th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
