ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u1	Mr. Secretary with a co-worker! Since time is gold, we will be right and we will begin by continuing the 19th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with the last meeting day before the holidays, so it is even more likely that we should hurry. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the next Members - and I will not read all 90 - Roberto Battelli, Miran Jerič, Drago Koren from 17:00 on, mag. Janez Kramberger, Rudolf Moge, Milan Potek, Alojz Posedel, Jakob Presečnik, Dr Mitja Slavinec and Janko Weber. We're moving to 18. TIME OF DAY - TO THE THIRD CONSTRUCTION OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE LEGISLATION AND SURVEILLANCE LAW FOR EXAMPLE OF EMPLOYMENT. We have 4 hours and 20 minutes to discuss. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading and I invite the Minister, Mag. A trifle, for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members! Have a nice day! Allow me a few brief words, introductory words to amend the Employment Act, unemployment insurance. The key purpose of this law is to ensure greater flexibility in the labour market and thus more jobs, greater social security. On the other hand, encourage recipients of monetary compensation to participate in active employment and employment programmes, as we know that integration is also a key objective of the Lisbon strategy. Motivating the unemployed to integrate active employment policy programmes, the law also improves cooperation between employers and the unemployed and the employment agency, the regulation of student work, which must carry out the right mission for the young generation for which we are all responsible, and ultimately with all these measures would increase the share of the active population. Above all, it is important that we put out a system in Slovenia to make it worthwhile to work. People support these changes, and we're all here for people. People agree with our suggestions. Even the vast majority replied that it is right for the unemployed to accept a job that is two degrees lower than what they have achieved. An even greater proportion of people have responded to the question of whether, in order to increase the grant fund, they are in favour of such changes, and also people very much support the proposal that participants or recipients of social assistance do the necessary humanitarian work. I have spoken with employees and with many people and with questions about solidarity. Solidarity is that those who are employed contribute to those who do not work for those who are not able to work for money aid, cash benefits during unemployment. Does the recipient, then, not have to do anything? No, no, no. Those who receive compensation are obliged to respond and participate and do humanitarian work for those who are needed by us, and these can be older, young, children of those who work. This is what solidarity is, how we help each other. These changes that we are proposing require people and expect us to confirm them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u3	Thank you, too. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views in full on the draft law. I invite the first to the word "magic." Capudra on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President, Minister with a co-worker, Members and Members! The data of the Employment Office that unemployment has reached the lowest level in our country since 1991, so that it is the lowest in Slovenia alone, says a lot. The reasons for this success of the ministry relate mainly to hard, responsible and very professional work at the Ministry and in the good connection of the Ministry, the Employment Office and individual centres for social work. In this way, the Minister or his ministry, without substantially increasing the financial resources of the budget, has achieved exceptional achievements in the field of employment through the use of the right instruments and the right programmes of the active employment policy. For this reason, I welcome the decision of the Government and the social partners that, instead of a fundamental right, which has been enshrined in the law and has not been supported by concrete programmes, this has been replaced by concrete programmes, which are quite something in the amendment to the law. Let me just list some measures; the employer shall be reimbursed for the employer's contributions if he employs one of the most difficult groups of unemployed persons: an unemployed person under 26 years of age and a first-time job seeker and is, of course, registered at the institution for more than 6 months. Furthermore, the unemployed person who is registered at the institution who is employed in the place of worker or worker on maternity leave, the unemployed person who is over 55 years of age and who is registered at the institution for more than 12 months, and several of these categories are where employers are exempt from paying the employer’s contribution. These rights are direct and disputable, which is a major step forward from the current regime. The number of persons involved in active employment policies and the content and extent of the implementation of this policy depends on the resources provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This has already been the case, and nothing changes in this area. I'd stop at work as a student. As far as the work of the students is concerned, it is necessary to make it very clear once again that the student work is not terminated after the proposal for a law. The draft law only sets out in more detail the conditions for the performance of the student work and the conditions for the work of the concessionaires in the intervention of this work, but of course the student work must be subject to specific conditions which, on the one hand, are characterised by special benefits and on the other, to restrictions. The law provides that, if the sum of the benefit is exceeded, the calculation of the concession fee shall be suspended on the basis of the fee and the employer shall be obliged to provide pension and disability insurance under the provisions of the law on pension and disability insurance. The solution is favourable for students, because in the event of an overstatement of a special allowance, which is laid down in the law and which is not taxed, the employer is obliged to protect the student and the student is running out of time. In Novi Slovenije, we have proposed and also supported a solution in the proposal for a law that 30% of the concession fees for transferring work to students and students will be transferred to the public fund, from which they will be transferred after the implementation of the law governing the scholarship, from which scholarships will be financed. So money will be spent on socially disadvantaged students directly and in a much larger amount than has been done so far. The data on this at the Student Organisation of Slovenia and the student organisations of the University of Ljubljana are very eloquent and, of course, the other data are not available. Together with these funds and funds from the budget, the funds of employers and the European Cohesion Fund are also expected to flow into this Fund. This would raise money for about 15 to 20,000 new scholarships. The concession tax is tax money to which the state has given up, and because of low fees, student work is often unfair competition, especially because of the abuses to which we are witnessing. We hope that by increasing the concession fee from 10 to 13%, which we propose with the amendment with the SDS, this unfair competition will decrease slightly. And why do we keep talking about the abuse of student work? Let me just give you a little bit of information about the income earned through student work. In 2004, according to the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, 1,384 such debtors, where they earned over a million 600,000 tolars, were six of which earned over nine million 600 Slovenian tolars this year. And just like you, I can only ask myself how a student can earn more than nine million a year in addition to regularly carrying out his study duties. And that is also why in New Slovenia we welcome the envisaged measure that can also be offered through the employment agency. I am convinced that the institution, as the central institution in the labour market, is well aware of the situation in the labour market, knows the supply and demand, has many links with employers and a developed information system and, above all, many professional staff to intervene and, more importantly, has a distributed network throughout Slovenia. What is also important and I think that the most important thing is that, in this way, at least to some extent, the abuse of student work will be prevented and 65% of the concession benefits will be transferred to a special fund for the financing of scholarships, and this must be of general interest to us and this must be in the interest of the students. Also yesterday's adoption of the amendment to the Act on additional concession tax, which gives the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia the possibility of direct control of concession funds on the basis of student work, will, in the opinion of New Slovenia, contribute to a more transparent work with finance based on student work. Above all, we expect that this measure will also make it possible to prevent abuse of student work and allow greater transparency. In New Slovenia we will support the law and solutions it foresees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u5	Thank you. Mr Brenčič has the following word on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I welcome all those present with the Minister in principle. The draft law in question has already been very much said during the duration of its procedure so far, and even in a substantive sense, the original proposal has experienced a number of changes, of course, according to some arguments, these changes are good, and in others they are also contrary. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we do not intend to re-examine the bill in its entirety for a very long time, but we will, of course, discuss our arguments for the changes that we believe are still urgently needed in the draft law on third reading, and we will discuss the amendments directly as an article. Our opinion and our position is that the type of measures and solutions that this amendment brings are good and necessary, and we have been through a whole process to support changes that reduce the potential for abuse in practice in the implementation of the law on employment and unemployment insurance, which primarily relate to the area of receiving financial social assistance to the unemployed, are linked through the objectives and actions of the active employment policy. However, despite the fact that a few smaller security guards have been incorporated into the bill through the second reading, we still feel that, following the current proposal, solutions will be possible in this phase of reverse abuse, which will mainly be given to those unemployed recipients of aid who are often powerless for a variety of reasons. We support the need to distinguish between the area covered by the accession as compensation for the period of unemployment resulting directly from special insurance for this purpose and the area covered by monetary social assistance for the unemployed. We certainly welcome the solution to the establishment of a scholarship fund, for which efficiency and reality are to be achieved, and in addition to part of the concession fee, other resources will have to be allocated to it from the work of the students. We support the intervention into the system of honorary and temporary work of students in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, but we firmly believe that this intervention must be balanced, for multiple purposes. And what is crucial in this is that measures and solutions must be achieved in terms of respecting one of the key principles of the European Union in co-operation, which is in genuine dialogue with partners or those institutions and organisations directly involved in such a process. In this context, we want to improve the draft law in the third reading by means of an amendment approach. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that it is absolutely necessary, even if dialogue with partners is often difficult, to lead in a genuine way, which also confirms a number of developments that have been directly present in the practice of adopting this law. We are therefore convinced that in the future, we think of the government, our approach to this issue, or on the issue of partnering dialogue with the social partners, it will have to improve slightly, and there is still some importance to the active employment policy on the issue of this law. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we have also been able to coordinate and agree on the need already arising from the Labour Relations Act for workers in public works to be recognised as a holiday regress; and this solution to this novel is now being applied. We will support the amendment or proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, but this depends largely on the substantive resolution of the open issues related mainly to Article 4 which amends Article 6 of the Act and which, as a red thread, is drawn through all the debate we have so far. Time and situation in a number of areas dictate the need for change, and we support this with full responsibility in the Group of Members. However, things must change in a transparent, sustainable, gradual and not in a radical way. Both myself and the parliamentary group will, as has already been said, be actively involved in the debate on the proposed amendments to the law, which can transform the purpose and objectives of the draft law in many ways, in a substantive sense, into a better and good implementation of this amendment in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Ms Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. First things first. Good morning. I would like to point out in principle that the position of the Slovenian National Party on the proposal for a new Employment and Insurance Act in the case of unemployment from the first reading is virtually unchanged to this day. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we are aware that changes are necessary, and I will say, in the broader field of employment, including social security, at least within the framework of broader reforms or only individual sectoral laws. However, respected colleagues and colleagues, the law today in the form it is, I will say, confirmed by the course of the second hearing, as well as by the working body of the plenary, is not acceptable for the Slovenian National Party. More. The law, I will say, is the first of the so-called socio-economic reforms, namely those reforms that this government has outlined as a priority of its policy in this mandate, which it has in fact represented as something far-reaching of the best that will happen to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. By the way, for several months we have actually listened to stories about the government's willingness to reach a broader consensus, coherence and so on. In short, this law, once again, I stress, the first law of so-called socio-economic reforms has suffered a complete breakdown in terms of government or coalition play, if you will. The fact is that the content of the law is not aligned with the social partners, nor with the students, nor within such a notorious partnership for development, but it is undoubtedly a fact that the law is clearly not harmonised in this content, as it was confirmed in the second reading, nor within the coalition. And that, hand to heart, is a very poor journey for this government, which is clearly moving away from the media-promoted concept of reforms. I'm afraid Minister Drobnic is also not aware of the sensitivity of the department he represents. It's that area that regulates and, last but not least, enables people to have basic survival. I must be so honest and, despite being truly unacceptable and subdued, to some extent, to play the part in this law, despite the fact that the law is not harmonised, this law certainly brings certain necessary improvements. These will certainly be most pleased by the so-called public workers who have been demolished in some way in the existing system. According to a new bill or after amendments, certain rights are increased or compared with regular employees. We have only heard a great deal about active employment policy under this law in past sessions. At no time has it been made apparent that, however, the objectives are somewhat inconclusive or the objective and purpose of the active employment policy are uncertain. I will give a mere example, in the 2006 Annual Employment Programme, it is planned that only 10% of all participants involved in the public works will enter regular employment. Among the other positive changes under this law, last but not least, there is an allowance for a large family, a benefit for the employer in certain cases, as we have already heard today, but I fear that some of these measures are incomplete and integrated into this law more deliberately, without expert analyses. If there were no expert analyses, there is no doubt that this survey, which was carried out by Minister Drobnič at the previous meeting, in which only less than 1% of the citizens participated, even less than half a percent of the citizens, would be the basis for this law. Measures that undermine the constitutional provision of the social state shall then be initiated under this Act. Let me mention the tightening of the conditions for refusal of work. The government proposes that persons who refuse so-called appropriate work be threatened with being deleted from the list of unemployed, and as a result, such a person loses all rights under the law. And I'm gonna ask myself what's a good job. The government answers, and here I will use the quote: "A person who does not want to be deleted must accept after three months of unemployment a job for which a level lower than that of an unemployed person is required." Where such a person is unemployed for six months or more, he or she must accept an offer of employment for which up to two levels of lower education are sufficient. Despite the big words, both within the framework of this law and the law on social protection, what is appropriate work and that every work is honorable, could also be listed. I'll say, words easily fly from the mouth of those who have a job and a regular monthly salary. The reality of those who lose their jobs is, believe me, significantly different and significantly more painful. Only within this law and from this title is a very restrictive measure, discriminatory and even more so because women and first-time job seekers dominate the unemployed, especially young people immediately after completion of their education. Within the framework of all four objectives, principles and main solutions enshrined in the law, the Government also mentions improvements or improvements in the efficiency of the work of the Slovenian Employment Institute. In one way or another, it was not explained. They only wrote it down, we'll increase the number of consultants. Another special amendment is envisaged in the context of today’s or this amendment to the law, in which the following word will be used, in the debate on amendments. The government intends to restrict, but I am afraid that it will gradually eliminate the specificity that has been introduced into our system in comparison with other European countries. I'm talking about college work. There's so much confusion about this topic right now. The dilemmas that we have raised mainly by the opposition Members remain open, unexplained. Also regarding the new public or scholarship fund, the new concept of scholarships. Today, at this moment, nothing really knows. Finally, let me repeat the naked fact. Slovenia is not becoming a friendly working environment, I speak for workers. The government strategy is to increase competitiveness, reduce labour costs and tighten labour legislation in terms of reducing or limiting workers' rights. The present bill, hand to heart, follows these guidelines in the first place. In all of the related areas, most of all this health insurance, hospital benefits. At one of the previous meetings, we passed a collective agreement law where the employer can even set lower standards for the worker than laid down by the roof law, namely the labour law, the one that applies once again. In short, the conditions for workers to benefit from profit are unfortunately deteriorating in all related areas. Of course, the Slovenian national party cannot and does not want to be with such anomalies, so we have proposed our proposals, amendments that have unfortunately not been supported and adopted. I hope that all of you together will find so much wisdom and support those amendments, which could have been tabled at the third reading, which would have, to some extent, improved this law. We don't intend to support the basics of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u10	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Democratic Party of Retired Persons' Emissary Group will support the law. The law was co-ordinated with the social partners before the hearing, and then there was an amendment, which was an agreement on the principles to this extent so that more research activities could be harmful, I think of the student organisation. Of course, our parliamentary group could not agree with such an amendment because it is in the position that an agreement with the social partners, in this case a student organisation, should be respected and that this is a way of adopting which has the greatest prospect of a good implementation of the law, so we, together with the Slovenian People's Party, have tabled an amendment on this subject and, of course, we will open it up, unless something better appeared when the amendments were adopted. At the time of adoption of this law, we also supported other amendments that would improve the legal text. In this sense, we think something has been done. I must say that we will also support today's amendments to make the law as best as possible. The law brings a number of new solutions that are predicted to work positively in the labour market. Of course, we think that time will show whether expectations will be achieved to such an extent and in this sense, as the applicant advocates. In any way, we think that the law must be adopted and, of course, we will have to adopt it under the condition that the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party are adopted and ours or better than that are also supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The following will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! We support this bill's proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. At the very beginning, when the initial draft law was submitted for consideration, we supported most of the solutions at the time, and we also expressed our expectation that the proposed initial solutions could be improved. After initial consideration, we had many meetings with students as well as representatives of workers, and in discussions on the working body, some other issues were raised that were still worth further considering and looking for more optimal solutions. Today, we have the content of a law that, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, has been improved and some issues will be dealt with even more optimally if we adopt some amendments today. We are confident that such a law will make an important contribution to reducing unemployment. It will certainly also contribute to reducing the abuses that are present both in the area of unemployment benefits and in the case of recipients of social assistance. The solutions to active employment policies will also make it easier for unemployed people to find new jobs and also possible re-qualifications to those areas that the labour market also needs. In particular, we welcome the proposed solutions that ensure the collection of funding from concession fees for the grant fund. Since the fear was expressed that the different distribution of concession fees could also affect the functioning of student services and student organisations, we have prepared, together with a coalition party, an amendment that will increase the concession fee. This will improve at least three areas: funding for scholarships will now be able to raise even more, which means more scholarships from this source. Here the funds will also be maintained to the same extent as today, meaning that their projects and operations will not be affected. And, last of all, what we think is important to us, in the labour market, student work will represent slightly lower unfair competition for other forms of employment, which we believe is the right path. All reports of opposition parties that this law is inappropriate and that they will not support it seem incomprehensible to us and show their unwillingness to regulate this sensitive area, especially for the benefit of the unemployed and also scholarships or student scholarships. Finally, in the Group of Members, we are convinced that the law is as good as it is when it is dealt with, that we will continue to improve it with some amendments and we will be happy to support it in such a form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Robbery on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members. We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on employment and unemployment insurance. We're in third reading. This is a law that has been announced and presented as one of the first steps towards implementing government reforms in the labour market. In the LDS, we find that this is a truly unusual step and one unusual step towards greater flexibility in the labour market. A step perhaps, but not to reforms, certainly not a step that would mean greater flexibility in the labour market, not a step that would mean more employment in Slovenia, not a step that could in particular solve the most pressing and most difficult problems of unemployment in Slovenia. This is some kind of anti-reform employment policy. It is a step away from modern, most developed and successful countries in Europe, well-known and effective models and methods of employment, in particular active employment policies. This is a proposal that is not consistent with the social partners, which is not surprising in terms of content. This is a law that undoubtedly sharpens the responsibility and obligation of the unemployed, while at the same time reducing their employment opportunities and opportunities. In the LDS, we do not oppose solutions that bring and introduce an even greater responsibility to the unemployment insurance system, nor to the obligations, but on one condition, the condition that at the same time the possibilities for solving unemployment problems, i.e. opportunities for all unemployed, regardless of age, sex or education, are increased. We believe that flexibility in the labour market needs to be increased in Slovenia, but at the same time social security needs to be increased. This is so-called safe flexibility, followed by the most efficient European countries, in particular Scandinavian countries with the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. Unfortunately, the current Slovenian government, unfortunately this law does not follow, on the contrary, the present law reduces social security in Slovenia and lowers it for those who are the most threatened, who in fact need a higher level of social security. It is amazing that the Slovenian government, that the competent ministry, responsible the Ministry, does not see the opportunity and opportunity offered for the employment policy, in particular the active employment policy, to a relatively favourable economic climate, the relatively favourable economic climate in the world, in the European Union and also in us. Relatively high economic growth means more jobs automatically, so automatically lowering the scope of social transfers and more available resources for active employment policy, i.e. a one-time opportunity for employment policy, an opportunity for active employment policy. The period of economic growth and thus the reduction of social transfers, nowhere in modern successful European countries, is the time to cut funds for active employment policy, but it is a time that is precisely reversed. This is the time to strengthen it, deepen it and improve it. Nowhere but in Slovenia, except in the draft law before us, in the proposal that the ruling coalition, as we can hear today, will be enthusiastically adopted. Adopted because the battlefield is finally making order between the unemployed and the students. Let's see how. Firstly, at the beginning of this law, it deletes an active employment policy as a fundamental right of the unemployed. Thus, the basic intent of the law is already announced in the introduction, and this is a restriction on the rights and employment opportunities of the unemployed. Restricting the extent of the active employment policy that the programme will define in a given year. So when the law requires the unemployed to accept every job to increase their obligations, their rights and their employment opportunities are violated. This clearly violates their social security, without necessity, without meaning and with a bad effect. Secondly, by amending Article 48a of the law on unemployment and employment insurance, the fundamental intention ahead of us is also very specifically operationalised. What do these changes bring us? Amendments to Article 48a, which is one of the most important articles of this proposal. To date, if you look at the current law, this area has allowed all unemployed people who have been registered at the institution for 12 months to repay half of their contributions to employers who have been employed for two years. So, it was the right of all unemployed, it was not just a right of certain categories, it was the right of all unemployed, and some of the unemployed had additional benefits, first of all those over 50 years. Those over 50 years of age had the right to pay these contributions for three years. Those who sought first employment, the youngest, had this right after six months. So, that was the right and a good opportunity for all the unemployed. It is absurd, it is amazing that we are listening here today to Members of Parliament and Members who are explaining to us that this bill brings benefits to some categories of unemployed people. For what? First he takes away all their benefits, first he takes away their rights, and then he brings back those rights that were before. Do not say that this law confers the right to compensation for those who replace those who are in maternity care for those who are under the age of 26 for those who are over the age of 55. They already have these rights under the current law. At first you deprived them of all their rights, you took everything away from them, and then you gave only one category back those rights, and now here we are listening to how this law is good for some categories. This law practically removes this possibility for all unemployed in Slovenia between the 26th and 55th years since today. These rights will no longer exist, and if you look at the structure of the unemployed, registered unemployed in Slovenia, then you will find that we are talking about the majority of the unemployed. There are some 50 to 55,000 unemployed people who are currently violating their rights. And by saying that this law is good, that it brings greater flexibility, that it brings effective employment policy, is absurd, is farce and is incredible. At a time when this government has the most opportunities and opportunities for the Ministry of Labour to increase the volume of active employment policy, it is normal for social transfers to shrink. Normally, because it is less unemployed, but the most difficult ones remain in the institution and they actually need the greatest help and effective employment policies. We see no need in the LDS House of Members, no sense for such changes and, of course, we strongly oppose them. Dear Members, the proposed law changes the concept, scope and possible effectiveness of employment policies and active employment policies in Slovenia. At the second reading of this law, we have warned that Slovenia has a relatively low level of expenditure with an active employment policy. From a government study, you can also see from a government survey that this volume in Slovenia is 0.4% of gross domestic product and you can first of all see that successful and most effective countries in this area have a significantly higher level of expenditure for active employment policy. For example, Austria has 0.65%; Finland has a wide range of examples of 0.9%; Sweden 1.6; Denmark 1.7; the Netherlands 1.9; and countries with an unemployment rate of around 4%, 5%, allocate three times, four times more resources for active employment policies and have had successful economic growth and have been freed from funds, and these funds have been earmarked precisely for those most difficult to employ, for those who most use social security, and for those who also want subsidies. In short, we do not see a rational, reasonable reason why we should be in Slovenia at this point in time to squander active employment policy, but we see a great opportunity to increase it. The data show that the government is doing exactly what it shouldn't be doing in this year and a half, so it's squandering the asset. In 2005, according to the draft budget, it had an amount of funding for an active employment policy of 22.8 billion. With the balance, it reduced this to 20.5 billion. And the adoption of today’s law will take the next step in this direction so that it can continue to squander these funds. And unfortunately, it also seems that the excuses of the government representatives that we heard on the second reading, that the reduction of funds will be replaced by European funds, are quite attractive for the hair, quite empty. Yesterday we were able to hear that the latest report by the Court of Auditors shows that the Ministry is poorly prepared to draw funds and that their withdrawal is highly questionable. In short, we are convinced that the effectiveness of the employment policy in Slovenia would be significantly better for more workers in Slovenia, so that the government and the competent minister will devote much more efficiency and organisation to the absorption of European funds than to the fight to reduce the rights of the unemployed and students. The results would be better, social security would be higher, and the unemployment rate would in fact not only be fictitiously lower. Dear Members and Members, it shows that our discussion of the student work and the efforts of the student representatives has nevertheless produced fruit and that today amendments will be adopted to prevent the gradual abolition of student work, that is good. Nevertheless, this amendment does not change the essence of the proposed law, which means a reduction in the scope of active employment policy, a deterioration in employment opportunities for the largest part of unemployment and a reduction in the social security of the unemployed in our country. These are changes that are unnecessary, which are unacceptable, so we will not support the law at the LDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u15	Thank you very much. In the meantime, a number of students and students have joined us in the Tribunal, which I welcome very much in the Slovenian Parliament, and we continue to present the views of the parliamentary groups and, lastly, invite to the word mag. The cost of presenting the position of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament. It has been quite an opportunity for us Social Democrats to express our opinion on the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, so let me narrow it down before I begin to explain in more detail our comments on this law. The first ones were certainly focused on the absence or interruption of social dialogue, they were linked to our desire to ensure greater activation of the unemployed, we wanted to establish equal treatment of recipients of cash compensation for unemployment and recipients of social cash assistance. We have warned of tripartiteism in the management of employment institutions as a standard that should not be broken and the law is broken, and, of course, the last set is linked to all that relates to student work. Now let me say a few more details. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act is an important test for the Social Democrats of the direction of this government and of the real readiness for dialogue with the social partners. And another type of law of this government, more specifically the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which would be difficult to say in the Social Democrats Group that the measures envisaged will also produce the expected results. Attempts by the Social Democrats to influence the provisions have been successful in one part, but unfortunately there are still some unacceptable provisions that we are trying to amend with the amendments tabled where possible, but we have not been able to fully influence the concept of the law. First of all, it is important to note the obvious difference between the objectives and solutions of the law repeated in the explanations that we have heard in the previous examinations on the one hand and the actual content of the articles of the law on the other. The objectives outlined promise some improvements and good solutions. On the other hand, the text of the law does not come true, but the bill follows some alignments with European rules and employment policies, which should in particular allow for faster employment of young people, in particular the first job seekers and the older and the permanently unemployed. It is true that the law also brings some innovations in the area of the activation of the unemployed, but the Social Democrats believe that all appropriate measures should be taken first to address the problem of the unemployed, only then to focus attention on preventing the abuse of all forms of aid for the unemployed, if such abuses actually occur to the extent that they can be heard. And because of this creation of a public opinion on the extent of abuse, it can also be seen as the reason for such surveys, which the minister spoke about and which the public is not supposed to be prepared for solidarity with the unemployed, as he says the Slovenian conversation that the raven is hungry does not believe. It is a question of activating the unemployed and their obligations after the adoption of different forms of work, but these solutions are more in the direction of sanctioning and coercion, not, as it were, encouraging and changing the attitude towards work, which should be highlighted in the first place and at the forefront of adopting such solutions. Work should be understood as the only long-term solution to prevent poverty and social exclusion. In short, work should once again become a value and a right, not an obligation, or even a punishment. And if we judge under section 36 of the proposed law, then we can say that we are satisfied that we have been able to influence at least one of the most illogical solutions proposed in this article. If we are really going to follow the European employment policy, the deadline to encourage employers to work for the first job seekers was twelve months and for the permanently unemployed 24 months was firmly too long. Here we are pleased that we have managed to shorten this deadline to six months for the first search engines or for those up to 26 years and for search engines after 55 years per year. However, there remains an insurmountable problem in terms of resources for an active employment policy. We are among those countries that have one of the lowest percentages of gross domestic product for active employment policy programmes - 0.34%. And as is now provided for in Article 36, the employer would be reimbursed for the employment costs of those categories that I spoke about, but not to be exempt from this, means that the actual volume of resources for active employment policy for its active measures is decreasing and resources are being channelled into passive measures. So we cannot say that these solutions are really what they were foretold to be. The applicants also announced that the law brought about quality changes in the functioning of the Employment Service. I hope that they have not only thought about the fact that the intervention of the student work is also coming to the employment agency. Other measures cannot be detected, but the only serious intervention in the institution is the grave attack on the structure of the institution's world, where the government, through an agreement with the social partners, is destroying the existing three-partite system of the institution. Instead of the current balanced composition of the institution, where a government, employers and workers are represented equally by four representatives and on their behalf, the government wants to raise the share of its representatives in this troika by half. The government wants to make it clear to employers and trade unions who has the main word. However, our objections to the public position of Minister Drobnič have been heard several times before to take over the representation of workers. Obviously, we want to replace a three-part balanced system, a representative system, with an increased government influence, in the management of employment institutions. And it is absolutely clear to everyone if the government has a half-representation in management that employers and employees will virtually be impossible to exercise their rights and their positions and will be there more for decoration than to actually enforce and represent their target groups. We have indeed achieved something about unpaid humanitarian work or other similar work by the Social Democrats. However, we feel that not everything is. There is also an impossibility for Social Democrats to distinguish between recipients of monetary compensation and recipients of social cash assistance, whereby the latter would be obliged to accept any work. We believe that they, too, should be considered to be obliged to take appropriate work. And now to another issue that is not well addressed in our view in the draft law. We believe that the problem of scholarships should be addressed by a comprehensive approach that would have its consequences in the law on scholarships. We believe that these solutions will not save the social pressures of students and allow equal entry into studies for all. In this context, we also believe that alternative or special forms of work, including student work, should be dealt with by special law or otherwise, so that we see the proposed changes as an attack on the student organisation and its autonomy rather than something else. And if I conclude, the law in the proposed form has some small steps in the right direction, but it does not bring significant positive movements. Most of the concerns to repeat are, however, the solutions that are more targeted at sanctioning than at seeking measures to reduce the time of unemployment, especially for job seekers and to overcome long-term unemployment, with a group of older unemployed in mind in particular. In view of how they will show their vote on the amendments adopted, we will also act in support of the whole law. In the form that it is now, it is not acceptable for the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the parliamentary groups and following a debate on the draft law as a whole. And given that a lot of people are missing and that something has checked out, despite repeated requests for professional associates or leaders to make sure that you log out of the debate in time, I suggest such a way of working to call the one on the list and then also to tell you who is next, that you will not be shocked, because you will arrive at a crucial turn as is evident from the list. That's what Mr. Horvath has to say. Then let's just get Mr. Kumer ready. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon, Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, Visitors to the Tribunal. We have before us an extremely important legal matter that the Slovenian public and the Slovenian Parliament have dedicated to it and will be given a lot of attention. There have been many additions to the bill, some of which will still be under third reading today. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, this high assembly by this law put on the Slovenian labour market at a given time, according to my belief, an optimal solution. The measures defined in the law will, inter alia, increase the proportion of the active population in the Republic of Slovenia and contribute to the financial sustainability of the pension system. Above all, I would like to stress that I understand the message of the law that it will really be worth working in Slovenia from now on. The proposed law is one of the laws by which we will implement reforms in the labour market in the Republic of Slovenia. The aim of these changes is in particular to make the labour market more flexible and to make more jobs possible. The law brings, in my opinion, a good solution that will contribute to the effective work of the Employment Service and the faster implementation of the European Employment Strategy. However, the government should adopt, through consultation with the social partners, annual active employment policy programmes setting out measures for the direct regulation of the labour market and a methodology for determining the subsidiarity of professions. The law encourages those who are entitled to financial compensation and unemployment assistance to actively seek employment in order not to leave just passive beneficiaries of money aid, as it brings creative work of one of the greatest pleasures. It is in this area that we have a situation in Slovenia that is being pointed out by our voters and taxpayers who are demanding order in this area. One of the important innovations, which I must also point out, is the establishment of a public scholarship fund, which will provide between 15 and 20 000 new scholarships when amending this law and the law on scholarships and thus allow for more study opportunities, in particular for those coming from lower-income families. The law does not violate social rights, as some have, but spreads them. Of course, the law does not promote or support speculation about work and the exercise of social rights. None of the opposition spoke of unemployment benefits, which are much greater than the wages of Murina's female worker, who literally bleeds behind machines despite the maximum efforts of the management and the state. The law provides incentives for first job seekers from 26 and 28 years of age by allowing employers to make contributions, as young people have proven to be severely disadvantaged in their first work experience. A lot of ink was used to discuss student work, unfortunately all too much in the direction of non-reality to stop student work from stopping student services. I hope that the message of today's debates from this Chamber will be clear and not misleading to the Slovenian public. This is: the student part does not terminate the law, the student service does not terminate the law, the student organisation of Slovenia does not terminate the law. However, we want to see that there will be no more money laundering through student services, that there will be no more pensioners working with student travel, so that no more profits will be paid through student travel fees than they do to the president of major Slovenian companies. But if, of course, controlling someone means assault, then I don't understand these two terms. That is why in New Slovenia we have also signed to supplement the law, which, by increasing the concession fee, keeps students' services and the Student Organisation of Slovenia nominally the same amount of funds and significantly more money than now for scholarships. Certain amendments and I will support the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u19	Thank you very much. As it is said, Mr Kumer has the word and it will be Mr Veršnik's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u20	Thank you for your word! Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Family! Because I am not aware of the miracles that have already been said today that the ministry has done a great miracle when the number of unemployed has been reduced in the last year, of course it would have become a foreigner, not a foreigner, and it would have been credible if the Ministry had come with data on how many new jobs have been opened and how many jobs have been raised, but not some statistics that could have resulted from a new affair on deleted, that even those who have been deleted from the list of unemployed may now have been put on another list. So much for that. In other words, I would like to say and repeat what I have already said in this national council: it is too obvious that in all times of life and activity and people's actions, the so-called policy of state charity is being smuggled through the laws, and this is one of the laws that we have here today, the state simply takes the discretionary right to give mercy, not what we should give. And this mercy policy, what does it look like in this marriage? You take all the rights to categories of unemployed and unemployed and then redistribute them, but not all of them, but you release them through individual target groups and categories of 55,000 unemployed, unemployed, who have lost their right by this law. That's where two things get mixed up. It is about taking away justice and on the other hand for order, but order means controlling the enforcement of the law and preventing all speculation and abuse, and this is the task of this ministry. However, this ministry is poorly carrying out this supervisory function, this inspection function of the current current law, and is following the easiest path to change, depriving itself of the right to facilitate work. And to be very specific, I'm going to move on to what we're talking about, the abuse of student service. In most student services, if anyone abuses it, they abuse the elderly; we abuse it, older ones, not students. In this Chamber are the people who are in the proceedings of abuse of the student work, sitting among the Members, sitting in the proceedings. And if we're already giving numbers, between 150,000 a little over 1,000 students who made over a million 600 million and 6 more than 9 million through student work, then it's also right for 90 officials in this National Assembly and 16 ministers and 32 state secretaries to say that 11 deserves more than 25 million. That is also true, it is also a type of abuse with extra work, which at the time of work do other work and thus earn more than one salary. In short, I don't know what the innovation of these changes is if the solutions offered do not only mean changing the status of the student organisation. Because the status depends on income [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u21	I'm asking for some peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u22	And if we have decided if the ministry and the government majority have decided to squander these funds to student organisations - then how else should you explain that this also violates the autonomy of this institution. You can't do anything else. You can't draw a conclusion. And another when it's perfect -- I think it was perfect -- even yesterday it was said -- talking about the enormous profits of the student organization's officials. About the enormous profits, even yesterday it was said. It's just not true. The President, those who are officers of the student organisation, are not professional, professionally employed, but it is true that the Director is employed and other staff in the student organisation and also in this National Assembly the Secretary of the State Assembly has a higher salary than we have some or more than half of the Members elected and he is appointed in this National Assembly - to compare. And I don't know what the logic is that the director, who is his professional function, who is old - I don't know, can be 50 years old, or as old as I am - wouldn't have any salary from an existing one, and it's impossible to compare it with the volunteer functions they perform in a student organization. Once again, when we talk about abuse, let us look in our mirror when we talk about the abuse of student work. The student work is largely abused by those who order it, and by those who are older, who then pay it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u23	Thank you very much. There has been a slight change in the course of this, which is why Mr Janc has the first word and only then Mr Veršnik. Mr. Janc. Please, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Employment Law for the Case of Unemployed Persons has been very much discussed in this National Assembly, for many hours also in the Committees, and I think it is right that we have said this debate, because it is an important topic, an important thing which I have raised several times also through questions sent out, through certain concerns from life, when certain things were simply not acceptable anymore. I am convinced that these steps that this law proposes and with some corrections that I believe we will still bring them into line with the amendments today, we can make one good law, one big move in this area, because the abuses that have occurred in many areas have already been so severe, because there has been no control and literally some things have been unacceptable. Therefore, I think this positive legislation, which will take some steps forward, is an urgent need. The unemployed person, we have talked about this a lot, of course everyone who is, is certainly in a difficult, unenviable position and it is certainly the duty of the State to help such a person. However, in modern times this person has been privileged to the person who was employed to receive certain credits that did not belong to him. This was abused, received by many - many unemployed persons had monthly incomes better than those that worked eight hours and more on the day of hard work for some machines in production, anywhere, especially in textiles, and this disproportionate and that, I would say, the non-acceptance of work offered in the space, because it was simply not interesting, was even less favourable than if you were an unemployed person, and this "does not drink water". Such things are not acceptable and it is unacceptable for society, for Slovenia, to do so. And this step forward, because there will also be some more responsibility here also for the employment and opportunities that have not so far been to sanction these things and allow those who will not be given a service or for health and other reasons, but, of course, this society must help, it must help and I think it will. As for scholarships, student work and things like that, we've talked about this a lot. The student's work will also be with the amendment - I hope - to fix a matter; we will also get closer to the needs, to the wishes of the students, which I think is fine. Unfortunately, however, this student work has recently been severely abused. Unfortunately, as my colleague before me said, the pensioners were already working on a student's guide: unfair, unreasonable and unfair to employers, to those employees who are in a regular working relationship. But, unfortunately, it's not the students' fault, it's their fault: control, it's the system's fault, it's the fault. And I think we're gonna get some things right in this town. Step forward is certainly a scholarship fund, I think this is some novelty which is positive, which will also give some new values to students, that they may even have less to do than they still have to do for their student's work as such. But by somehow diminishing some of the rights of students, student work, of course, this is not true and wrong. It is necessary to look at the whole matter, the spectrum, what students are getting under this new law, and I think it is unjustifiable to argue here that it is now up to them and the third and so forth. That's not right. I know that perhaps in this story this partnership has been made quite something between ministries, among students, among many other institutions; perhaps too little, because these are difficult steps, there are some shifts that, of course, show some changes when it is difficult to deny established rights if they are. However, according to my assessment, the rights that are acquired either for students or for unemployed persons do not change. However, abuses must be stopped, they must be limited, for that was too much. I also believe that today, article 4 with our amendment will receive a positive consensus in the National Assembly and that we will correct and make some steps and that, of course, it will also be a little more rounded up in this area, including the expectations of students. Greater flexibility on the market is urgently needed. Go to the employers, go to the companies and let them tell you what the problem is today. Here is the problem that we have this hard, inappropriate legislation, which I still do not think is appropriate, and even less so for the entrepreneurial objectives and interests of employers, but there will still have to be something done here in another law, which is likely to await us in the future. In short, all that is, I am deeply convinced that there is a great step forward. Whether it will be enough for this time - I think it is now, but the law is still possible to upgrade, correct in the future if such and other irregularities or things that may not be entirely consistent, but I am satisfied with this and will also be supported by amendments, which I think are necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u25	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Versnik. Then it's up to you, Mr. Koren.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'm sure today we wouldn't be talking about changing this law if everything was okay. I am sure that the government has brought about this change, brought about a disorder in the field of employment and, of course, prepared what is only understandable; it has prepared changes that will only make some things a little harder for us, and some are also afraid of that. We have listened here already today to how little we are actually investing in social transfers, but I would not be able to agree with this that the number or value that we invest in these transfers, that it also brings so much more or less concern for employees. It is not always that way, people are unfortunately such that we want to organize our lives on the line of least resistance and if someone gets some money from the country clearly, he can also be very quick with this money, of course, if he also has the opportunity to perform, according to his household, "no fuš". And these things are unfortunately too much for us, so I agree with those who said that these things should be restricted, and I am sure that some of them also bring about a change in this law. This law also improves the possibility of first employment and the possibility of those who are older after 50 years who actually have very little opportunity to work, and especially for this job they would like to work for themselves. I am sure that with these changes we want to prevent ourselves from playing and exploiting all these transfers of this money that is coming, I will say, from the sky or from the country. The purpose of these changes is also to encourage an active search for employment, which is always the worst, that someone receives something and sits at home and waits for the service to come from the luft or from where - without working intensively to gain the flexibility of himself to ask to engage in any work so that every hint can be used. I think those times are sadly over when everyone can get a job to where it's brought us, and we all know. About the student work, I said it, and I'll do it again. I expect students to do their basic work, their primary work is studying. I agree that some of those 1,000 who work are also needed, or that they have no other option, but they are a smaller number. And I'm sure that for that number of students that really need work to find money for a scholarship. But most of the students work, because they make it possible, say, better clothes, daily coffee, evening chat over beer and coffee, etc. Unfortunately, all this is too much. And of course they have the greatest interest in keeping this as it was. By establishing a public fund, I am sure that the opportunity for those will be really good and for those who are really forced to work to get a proper scholarship. This fund will be financed from - the entire concession will go to the fund and, of course, will open up the possibility that these students who seriously want to study and who do not have material opportunities will take advantage of this option. See, we are looking at everything too much in the newspaper about how resources are being used irrationally, and I think that is unfair and wrong, so we in our parliamentary group, together with New Slovenia, want to increase the concession fee, thereby ensuring a lower competitiveness of student work and greater competitiveness, and therefore we want to establish that we stop competing with employees and those who regularly want to work, and we are somehow approaching the state that has already been in the current system, that the SOS and student services do not lose substantially their income from this title. I think that by correcting these issues that are still in the amendments today, this law will become good and, clearly, it will not always satisfy everyone: some will be satisfied, but others will not, as it is every day and in everyday life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Koren has the floor and it is then Mr Potrč's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u28	Thank you, President, a nice greeting to Members and Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, students and guests on the Tribunal. The law that we are considering today, and we are likely to adopt it, brings quite a few improvements to my mind, and I am sure that it is at least better than the law before. While I would expect all Members to find some good things in this law somewhere, I must admit that the opposition sees what a good thing, but I thought and expected that these things are a little bit more. I also have to say that there is probably a need to add or upgrade something else, but all of a sudden, it's impossible. But I'm sure a lot of things with this law are just changing, just regulating - and that's for the better. If I first stop with these specific measures, which have already been said today, it is said that the employer who has employed a younger than 26 years of age seeking first employment, that contributions have been paid, and that the person who replaces the person who goes to maternity, and that the older than 55 years who have been on the labour market if such an employer has hired them to be exempt from contributions; I think that this is a good thing and that this will result in greater flexibility in the labour market. This is certainly a measure that causes this. The other thing I want to touch is student work. I have to be honest here that I'm not an opponent in student work, that it's right that students have the opportunity to work, that they have the opportunity, I'd say, it would be nice if it could just be an extra profit if they had scholarships; it's saying something along with, something more. Regrettably, however, scholarship matters are not regulated in this area. Earlier, I think one representative said, I think from the Social Democrats, that it would be a comprehensive approach to this scholarship policy. I am happy to join this, but what we already have in this marriage, I am sure, is at least the first step. So, there is something, and if we find any other things, that we may also attract the economy, that the economy will also realize that this is not money that is being wasted, but that it will be returned after the study with good, successful workers, that this will be arranged, that the issue of scholarship policy will be regulated in this sense, that there will be a greater interest in students being able to get more scholarships. If I continue to work as a student, however, I must say at the same time that I am a terrible adversary to abuse in this area. I agree that it is not the students' fault, except for as much as - I think it is still necessary for the student to lift the fees, that he cannot retire or some employee lift the fees. Of course, the original sin or the main fault is with the elderly, I will say, with us, the elderly, not with the students, I think that order in this area, but not only in this area, in all these areas governed by this law, I am sure that if we can achieve a little more order, this order will also help to improve the situation. Someone said earlier, it only brings sanctions, perhaps at first sight it does, but I am sure that sanctions will cause more order in these areas, and more order will bring other things, it is said, there will be more money for those who are truly justified, for the purposes which are intended to do so. It seems very important to me what Mr Janc said before - an active job search. It's sad that people don't want to take the job, they don't want to work, but why they don't want to work -- because obviously they can still get the means of survival in a different way, in an easy way, without work. We can not only solve this by means of this law, but one step in this area is also this. Mr. Rob, I didn't think - he had come before - that I would be able to, because one thing I was going to replicate to him. Indeed, at the time when he led the government or when he was Minister there was no realisation of exemptions for any category of contributions: not for young people, not for older people, not for women; indeed, it was written in the law, but for realisation. As far as I'm concerned, there was nothing in this area. What the law now brings is reprehensible. It is true that these categories are listed, but all of these categories can challenge this. With the amendments that I hope we will accept today, I think that marriage will be a good foundation, but there will certainly not be a foundation that could last forever, but there will be some more to be added and changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Now he's got the word Mr. Potch, then the mag. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u30	Thank you very much. In the process of preparing and adopting this law, we have tried as much as possible to prepare it in a content that reflects the real problems and situations we have in the field of employment and unemployment insurance, and which would also reflect the possible consensus of the potentially interested and affected in this area, that is to say, in addition to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, workers, employers, students and others. We are aware that this is one of those laws in the area of the start-up of a reform programme that can only work successfully if it is supported by as much consensus as possible through social dialogue. Unfortunately, the government, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs does not have as its first leader or first method of action the need to reach agreement and seek compromises, but has the first guide to achieve in any way the result that I have imagined if, after a certain time, I have formally tried to make some harmonisations because I have to, but I will say in advance that I will achieve them only if the harmonisations are as I expect and demand that then stop the process and, in fact, many who wish to cooperate sincerely reject them. [[...]] Because they already know in advance that this cooperation and coordination does not mean much, because after a while the result will be as the Minister has imagined. That this is not purely fictional shows not only this law, but also some other experiences and statements that I do not wish to abuse now, because they are not directly related to this law. In this part, we believe that it is a shame that we have not achieved greater harmonisation, although in a formal sense, some harmonisation in the drafting of the law has been with the workers, but not entirely and with everyone, we all know that. At some important points of harmonisation, there was no harmonisation, but some were later questioned. Secondly, what we were aware of in the preparation of this law was that the Ministry, on the basis of general beliefs and opinions, in fact, considers that in the field of employment and unemployment insurance, it is necessary to ensure that there will be less abuse, as they say, of increasing responsibility and sanctioning for all those who do not have employment, in order to ensure that, on different conditions and on different occasions, this employment or any other work that is not even employment must be accepted. While sanctions take place earlier and stimulating employment and job search and assistance in obtaining work skills, something small is yes, but not really enough. Our basic desire was to note in the law that we should really achieve what the government says, but unfortunately not, to find a Scandinavian model that would make employment much more flexible, but would increase the obligations of the state to ensure that everyone who loses his job gets a job as soon as possible. And that the responsibility of the State to reduce, in all possible ways, permanent unemployment or long-term unemployment, which is still very high, particularly among young people, is great, especially among older people, and unfortunately also among higher and university education professions, which we do not recognise, is often regionally conditioned, but we think that we will solve this problem not with more jobs, not with more stimulation of better production and new jobs, not with greater stimulation of owners and entrepreneurs, but in particular by sanctioning in every way the one who does not want all the conditions set by the State to be met. In this regard, there must also be practical examples that the government has not accepted in our opinion for reasons that we do not understand. This is a question whether, even in the case where certain incentives are given to entrepreneurs - it is an exemption from payment or a refund of the obligations he had in paying for contributions if he hired a person under the age of 27 or over 55 years. Why is there such a problem here that the employer cannot be stimulated by a prior exemption, and then sanction him if he fails to fulfil his obligations, but this one has to wait a year, and in the end he gets this right - I don't know, I think it's just the commodestity of the country. It is easier to overcome this burden on those who are employed to wait for a year rather than to record this obligation and to ensure that, in the event of sanctions, this obligation is also fulfilled. A similar example, which is raised by the Social Protection Act and by the Employment Act here, is the question of the appropriate employment of those who receive social assistance, with the warning that those who accept social assistance are also the first job seekers, not just those who do not want to work at home and who receive social assistance. The Government is not prepared to understand that it would be right to consider such a so-called suitable employment, which means the same for beneficiaries of social assistance as for those who have the right to pay unemployment contributions, and that the Government has not accepted it. And third, not least, but a very important question is the regulation of student work. At this point, the unwillingness for dialogue has been shown in the most drastic form, unfortunately and without need. According to proposals prepared by the government, especially after proposals that are further agreed with the government - I know this - I can say that this has been so - prepared by the coalitions of the parties, it is understandable that students have lost every confidence that it is indeed a matter of finding a possible solution that will only eliminate the weaknesses that the student's eventual work and intervention carries with them, but that it is a desire to minimize it to a minimum with the potential of creating a scholarship fund, in which funding from the student's work would be provided to a large extent today, without knowing when the fund will really start functioning, when the law on scholarship will be passed, or whether the law will also involve solutions that will be coordinated with the student organisation or will want to be settled in some form that will not be acceptable for the current time. So we've come to the situation that the Malkones have come to the question of accepting this law, so far that it's even - even, it's my emphasis, but even because it rarely happened - the coalition has split up, but it's good that it's split up, and that we also have from the coalition now 2:2 to say: Human and DeSUS on the one hand, Democrats and New Slovenia on the other - two substantively different amendments, not with very insignificant differences, are important. They both stress the need to increase the amount of funding for student work, but the amendment they have drawn up in the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS does not want to reduce the amount of funding provided by the student organisation, and in particular not to increase the burden and cost of the student work itself, which - no one knows - can have an impact on the potential of offering student work on the market and is therefore better to accept a solution that would not place this uncertainty. In the Social Democrats Group, we will continue to propose and defend solutions that are as close as possible to a possible agreement, because we simply do not accept the logic that has already been expressed today that students work only for coffee or for a better dress, but I must say that even if they are willing to engage so much in the course of fulfilling their obligations to study, to facilitate their position and to ensure a better life, it is only positive, but not negative; for many we know that it is also the basis of student work that they can study. The study system is no longer cheap. Surely the demands and expectations of today's young generation are different from those of 40 years ago when I was a student, because the general picture of the standard and the possibilities was different. It is certainly right to wish that students today have the opportunity and the opportunity with the resources they have and that their parents cannot guarantee that they can also participate in a sport that is very expensive, that they can participate in a cultural life that is not cheap, because it is necessary to pay for it, and all the same, which makes it really funny when it comes to talking about that student work being something in principle bad. I would like to point out once again, given that the basic obligation to fulfil the study in any case exists, it is governed by another law and has no direct connection with saying what we allow for the student work, and we reduce the obligations that students have to study. I wish that we could just reach some fundamental agreement that the law would be adopted. I expect from the Ministry that it may also give suggestions to coalition parties to support any of the proposed amendments. Let me put aside this moment, whether it's a real or an unrealistic desire, let's say that this time I would be optimistic and I would say that maybe there will be something out of it and that we will be more satisfied with this law than we were at the end of the second hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you very much. In the meantime, there has been a slight replacement by now having the word of Dr. Gaber, and then it is Mr. Petan's turn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry that everything shows that this marriage is basically going to be a missed opportunity. This is a very important law, and this has been discussed in previous discussions, a very important law for the development of this country. If there is a need to achieve fundamental trust among people in a country, then it must be achieved here, especially because it is precisely what some stress that the degree of flexibility in this area must be great. If it is not, then the labour market suffers and, of course, a whole lot of the consequences come out of it, but if we take from safe flexibility only flexibility and forget about the safety of people, then we get counter-effects and I fear that with missed opportunities, those that concern, for example, Article 48 and similar, it will happen. Rather than allowing people who lose their jobs to expect more from an active employment policy than they could expect from an existing law, everything shows that they can expect a whole lot less. This generation in these most intensive years, somewhere between the thirties and the fifties, has been placed at a crossroads to such an extent that it is unnecessary and unreasonable. Slovenia currently has resources, this is reflected in several areas, in many cases, which would allow greater security for these people, which could fabricate the so-called development pacts within businesses. If you're looking at Stanič's old strategy, and I think Bobinac is continuing it in Gorenje, Gorenje survived because of this strategy. Since a relatively high level of security was ensured, it was possible to prepare people to work harder to do better, to do better even when this would not be the case with them. Such companies are quite something in Slovenia, so the Nordic partnership model works, but it is necessary, of course, to agree on a partnership, to keep the word and to know that you are taking our risks together as an individual, as an individual and as a country. This is a modern concept of the functioning of European societies. There is a different model, there is a model of more savage competition and significantly less security, with a whole bunch of consequences for the family, for specific people, for the type of behavior and it is necessary to take this very seriously, but we have not been able to do this. We are partial with the law in Parliament, without having a broader diopason of agreement concluded, and it is even worse. We, too, where we agreed on certain things, did not keep those words, politics broke the word. If it wasn't tragic, it would be very comical to see what was going on around college work. When the amendment of the SLS and DeSUS is adopted today, I only hope, or this firm core of the coalition, then we will all ask ourselves why, Mr Minister, even this crossover around the student work - why? Because someone wanted to show that students can wave very seriously in front of their noses also with the possibility of their resources falling radically for their work. I don't know, I don't understand, this type of policy that burns high fires and then uses a lot of energy to lower this fire - I don't understand! It can amuse someone, it can make someone believe that they will then be able to stand up not only for the representative of the workers, but also for the representative of the students - perhaps. But that's expensive for the country, that's bad for people. Let me just say that, personally, in the LDS, too, we support all efforts to reduce the number of irregularities where they are. If I believe that they will be completely eliminated, this one lives in an illusory world and it would be good for him to carry out his activities there, not in the real world of politics. But when we do this, we need to be aware for the first time that this is not the first intervention in this area. The information we have at our club suggests that there has been a considerable impact in reducing these pointless, unjustifiable remittances of money through student services with the so-called marble intervention in its legislation, in its era. One of the reasons why it fell from 80 billion to 60 billion is also the case. A few of the activities of us, not students, as has been said here many times today - that is, those who have much to say against the abuse of student work - have thus experienced their just end. If there is anything else that can be done to ensure that all other forms of work are not paid through student travel, we welcome any action that can be taken. We also welcome the idea of a scholarship fund. We will really believe in it when we see what you will really add to this fund with this student money. I hope that what some people promise here today is true; but for now it is hard for you to believe in the word, because you are quite at the top of those who break the word, whenever it comes to them and find any reason for it. We will also support the supplement tabled by the parliamentary groups and eliminate, as I said before, unnecessary turbulence around the student work. And we will also support any further action that will further put things within a meaningful framework. It seems to us that concrete measures should be taken and concrete measures supported, but not simply waved at how everything in all segments is wrong and thus accused the student work and those who are doing it, as well as the student services at the same time, and the student organisation, and on the other hand, the unemployed of declaring everything as lazy people who do not want to accept such or other forms of work. Of course, there are people who don't want to do that, who don't want to go to work. But there's a lot of people out there looking for work, and they don't get it. They also do not get it because we do not take a step further from the existing system, but sometimes we even take steps back to encourage employers to hire such people. Less sense, less sense of how everything is wrong, how everyone is just speculating, and more concrete, precise measures that promote the resolution of the serious problems that the unemployed in this country have. For it is very easy for everyone to claim to do every job until it is you and not your children. I would like to know if the honourable Member, if, unfortunately, this happens to him after the end of his term of office, will take up any work offered to him and whether his children will take up any work. He, I'm afraid that when he talks about grabbing each job, he discusses it abstractly when it is necessary to do it specifically, but then it is slightly different. As all children must go to work, let us not ask ourselves which of the children of Members and Members is really enrolled in vocational schools; these schools are so fine and they must all go there because it is honorable. From words to actions it's a little harder so it's better to be careful, to begin with, to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Petan would like to have the floor, Mr Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Since a few questions have been asked and a claim that I think is good to answer, I have taken the floor. In Slovenia there are over 40,000 work permits for foreigners, which is in those areas where we do not get unemployed to work. This is just a fact and the unemployed do not accept it. In the last two years, two and a half years, under previous legislation, the amount of cash aid, cash social assistance increased by about 100%. Of course, this is covered by taxpayers and taxpayers also very clearly monitor what is happening with this legislation and are, of course, critical. And that's why the survey has also shown that these changes are urgent, and these are the reform changes aimed at increasing the activation of the population, making the responsibility for social assistance greater, for those who really need it. Forgiveness of contributions or reimbursement of contributions. If they had made contributions to these rights-entitled measures, they would have made a deficit in the pension register and certainly 500 000 pensioners who are now receiving money would not have been satisfied, so this measure is technically and systematically better. As regards measures since it was stated that they are to be deleted from the Active Employment Policy Programme. No, these exemptions for contributions for different categories are listed in the law, but in the end there is another delivery, this was in 2002, I think adopted. These rights shall be invoked if necessary. In the last 8 years, there has never been a situation in which these rights could be invoked, the exemptions of contributions, at a time when the prime minister was Mr Rop and even before he was Minister. However, there have been exemptions from contributions to trainees in the 1990s, where some abuses are also possible, so we have put in place mechanisms to prevent this. These are real facts, depending on the money. And that was not the case, so we preferred to take action rather than high-level words and to make arrangements whereby these three categories truly acquire rights, whether or not the active employment policy programme is intended for any kind of money or not. The scholarship fund. He's being introduced by the law. One part of the money will also be provided by this increase in concessions and by a different allocation. This scholarship fund will be earmarked for several scholarships. I think that the basic intention of all our efforts should be to increase scholarships. And this is the basic purpose of this proposal made by the government. That some have an intensities to ensure a better position for student services is also a fact, but that is not a priority of the government, given what is happening to student services. Example: 4 billion 300 for student services and 5 billion for employment. This is uncomparable in terms of the scope of the work. We therefore align ourselves with the interests of the students. We do not know if we always reach an interest with their representatives, but certainly with their interests. That is, diet and scholarships in 2005 24 billion and something else, in the 2006 budget 26 billion. So, we're increasing. And what are our proposals: more scholarships, work connections and studies, better regulation of student diet and increased capacity in student homes. The amendment of New Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party does not reduce resources, in fact keeps them at about the same level, for student programmes and for services. It increases substantially for the purposes of scholarships as the concession increases. You can figure that out, too. These amendments are more intended for scholarships. About Scandinavian models. The social partners have a serious deal. Now there are also some laws on Wednesday, where we have also offered this Scandinavian model, eliminating restrictions and increasing incentives for employment, as well as increasing unemployment benefits. This is the project, and the government has offered it. Now, however, the response of these social partners will show whether they actually support these measures. And what will the social partners consider? Preventing work in black, to which you will surely agree, national professional qualifications, ensuring the valorisation of minimum wages. Since the social partners had not agreed, this Minister of Labour, which you sometimes say in one way or another, proposed valorisation of the minimum wage. And I have put myself in the interest of the workers, quite rightly, because I feel responsible to provide them with valorisation in line with inflationary movements so that they do not lose their social standard. And because of this I don't have any sense of credit or anything, but this is my role that I have to do, which some people deny me, but I don't know why; whether they care more about capital or something. Social assistance has therefore increased in the last two, three years by 100% and it is right that work in Slovenia must be paid. That the person who goes to work, whether he is a textile worker or a worker on the railway or anywhere, should earn more than social assistance. This is the right direction, this is the European direction and this is also in line with the Lisbon strategy. So these are the intentions and those arguments that the government advocates and will also stand firm on this, but of course it is the National Assembly that makes decisions, because it is the legislative body, the legislative authority in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u35	Thank you very much. First, I'll give the procedural word to Mr. Brenčič and then the replica to Dr. Gabru. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u36	Thank you very much. See, the rules of procedure are now intended to discuss the law as a whole. We are also proposing amendments, so we have conscientiously given up because we want to discuss and defend the amendments. And it is now inappropriate for some of us to act in support of a certain amendment, particularly the Minister, then I, as a second point of view, have to take a second point of view. This is not now relevant, so I would ask, Mr President, that the debate on the draft law as a whole is now under way, which is proposed for third reading. We cannot speak, Mr Minister, whether you laugh or not, you have advocated only one amendment and how I can, with an argument that I propose a second look at this solution, object to whether I advocate them and urge you to believe that this amendment is substantively and purposefully in place. [[...]] I would therefore like to ask that we are correct, otherwise I must step back in because I have been reported in the general debate to discuss the things before me in the debate and are, by procedure, intended to discuss the amendments. I'd like to ask if we could try to enforce this procedure in our leadership, this is the procedure of the rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u37	Thank you very much for this guidance, which I believe is kind, but you know for yourself that there is a third treatment and when we discuss the regulation in full, it is very, very difficult to draw the line, where what is already beyond that is. So, I hope that your guidance from your colleague and colleagues will be taken into account, but it would be very difficult for you to decide where this limit is. I hope you understand. Now I'm asking Dr. Gabra for a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, after your performance, I have a worse feeling than before about what can be agreed upon in this country. Because you use logic above a completely elementary level, which is from time to time, but for this time is not particularly appropriate. For you are constantly and still here today, to the representatives of certain interest groups, denying legitimacy. You're talking about not knowing what can be arranged with the representatives of the students and students, but you know what is in the interest of the students. There was a time when we had an organization that knew what was in the interest of the people, what was in the interest of the workers, and it did so instead. Let the students choose their own representatives and representatives and then talk to them. I think this could bring a lot more, and it is better for the unions to let them represent the interests of the workers. It's in a normal civilized world. As for what you have done, you have great credit for the minimum wage and so forth, you have done your duty, my respectable colleague. Your duty is to take care of the common good. And that's all you did. But I hope you didn't do it for the workers, for the workers, etc. You did it because you're a minister. And that's the kind of business that needs to be done. If you learn to separate between the two, then you will perform significantly less totalitarianly. When you are representatives of the interests of workers, students and the like, and you know what their interests are, but they themselves do not know, then you stand in a position that has long been known as totalitarian. Let them represent their own interests.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I'm asking you nicely to speak only one, and that's the one who's next. To break this tense atmosphere a little bit will be my next forecast in Rome. Mr Petan, Mrs Uhan, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I always like to wonder what the goal is, the intention, the desire to change a law. And this area of employment and unemployment insurance certainly belongs to the area enshrined in the Constitution under the social state. It's one segment of this view, of this view. If we go any further, that means that our desire is our goal, as much as possible an active part. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u41	It would be very nice if only Mr. Petan spoke, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u42	And our goal, and the desire in this social state, is the largest possible share of the active population. This means that there are as many employees as possible, in the end there are no unemployed. And that's the kind of employees who pay their contributions. The result is that the country can invert social transfers. There is something to know, however, that the social state needs to be created, only to be written in one document, and even if it is a constitution, it is not enough. That can only be a wish if you want, a godly wish, but a social state must be created. It is therefore necessary to have money created through jobs if you want there to be enough money in the budget to intervene with such or other activities. This means that if, of course, we have a lot of active people, a lot of employees, so that we can find good solutions for those who are most vulnerable here, they are the ones who are no longer active. That's what you call a pensioner and a schooling youth. This will enable pensioners to receive adequate or good pensions, but on the other hand, we will be able to allow our children to study. The goal of the school is certainly, as well as of the parents and also of the countries, if you want them to finish their studies as soon as possible, to become active again and thus help younger generations with their financial contributions, because without money there is nothing. This is what we all find in this law today. Of course, the country must make it possible to study. And if I'm going to focus more on this as one of the segments of this marriage, that means that it would be a wish for every student to get a scholarship if he wants one. If she doesn't want it, there's no need, but if she wants to have a choice. Now there's no choice. If you don't have one, I'd want one, you don't have a choice. And that's why we need to form a scholarship fund. It's been talked about for a long time, and there have been attempts. I think that we are so far away now that we take this seriously, that we get it from more resources, and this is by making it possible for all scholarship students, for everyone, not just for some. Of course, it won't work overnight, but if we start today, we'll have this done within a certain period of time. But if we start in five years, in 10 years, we'll only have what we want. The current system of student assistance, this is through student work, says they have to work, allows abuse. I would say that students, I stress, are not guilty of this, absolutely nothing, but at least those who go to job placements, we know who it is, student services, and therefore they have to work. However, I am sure that it would be much better, and, of course, because it has to work, the study is likely to be extended, certainly, so we have almost seven years to study, almost eight years to do so, and there is not even an hour to work with this student. Now we're going to count back when he reaches that whole working time he has to get to fill his working hours if he has to work. Or would it not be more beneficial for such a student to take a scholarship, to study quickly, to get a job, and now I will not talk about that famous salary tax, which has burdened only those who have higher education, so that employers have even less employment for these people, it also falls within this context, it certainly falls within this context, but it may not be realized, it would probably be much better than looking for work and working, but it does not even have an hour of work. At the same time, someone who owns student services has a very nice study. But for the record, I don't judge these student service owners because it's not their fault. Such a system was given to them, and they took advantage of what was offered to them. The same is true of those other 50% concessions. These are student organisations, and I wouldn't judge them either. This is abuse, but I wouldn't judge them because we allowed it, the law allowed it, we gave it to them. I'll say that if you're offered something, if you don't take advantage of it. You can't exist, but we can judge those who make it possible. [[...]] That is why I stand for this solution, which is in this law. And since this marriage also includes an amendment, I can't help but say it. This amendment we made [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Even in our client and which allows 30% of this grant concession, it is probably the best social transfer to give some of the money that students earn to the scholarship fund anyway. [[..]] This is the best institutional transfer for me. And then it will certainly be less likely that the others, who are also involved in this meal, will somehow distort or abuse the money that may be so much, but it will obviously start to think about it, because that money could still be spent on scholarships. I'll tell you one more time. I don't condemn those who have used such a system, we have to think about it, which we will be adopting legislation and now we have a chance to change it a little differently. We're all aware that they're anomalies or abuse or whatever you want to call them, but that's not enough. Something needs to be done, too. It's too small to identify, and we need to get rid of it. The fact that they own, I stress, the owners of student services, not those who work in student services, the owners of student services at the expense of the accounting work of the owners of hotels, and I don't know what that was possible for them. If you don't think I'm talking to you, I'll read what I read yesterday. The ones you've been here before, I'm sorry, but you haven't all been. [[..]] [[Talking to each other.]] Yes, because it's in all the newspapers, Mr. Anderlich. [[..]] Yeah, I have the same thing, but the content is the same, because the student organization's business report is the same as it is, and it won't change, even if it's in another newspaper. This business report was considered a business secret. The report states that only the secretary-general of this organisation spent 13 million a year. That was, I don't know, personal income, if I may say, or pay. I'm not going to comment and ask you how much you have a year as my colleagues, because we're about to know how many people there are. But we're gonna have a hard time getting that number. Two-thirds could probably come in for scholarships, but there would be nothing wrong with it, and this gentleman would also have an adequate income. In order not to delay, I would just say that of the 120 million who came to this student organisation, only 15.3 million dollars were spent on projects, which we spoke so resoundingly about at the second reading, and about 90 million for the salaries of five officials. Do you still need a comment? I don't think so. I don't want to talk about this secret report anymore. So it's no wonder the amendments were prepared. Given that money has now been distributed 50% to student services from concessions, that's 10% so that we don't mix with yesterday's two percent, and for students' organisations 50%, that was according to this latest data for every three billion. What we have now, the two amendments, which are more or less very similar, so it's not so important after all, I'm going to talk about what I can talk about, because it's the one that I signed or argued for, that this concession would be shared differently, that students' services and students' organisations would get 30 percent for scholarships, that would be two wholes and a few billion more, 2.3 billion for scholarships. I think it's a nice step away from the current zero percent. Once again, I will say that it is the best social transfer in this area to devote 2.3 billion of the student workforce. I can't imagine a better social transfer. If that's why someone tells me that I belong to the hard core of the coalition, I consider it an honor. Really. If that's what I'm so accused of, fine. In order to form a grant fund, where there is now no money, it would now be in two billion. I take this offense for hire, but also that some say that otherwise this fund would be good, is not enough to believe that something is good and then to vote against. There's also something to be done. Then it has to be supported, but not priori, yes, but it's going to be bad anyway, because we don't believe you, so we're going to be against it. So, nothing for scholarships, but we all find that there are possible abuses because the legislator did so. Once again, I do not condemn those who have taken advantage of this situation. Now we're gonna blame this place. That's right. This fund needs to be established. A little over 10%, as they suggest in the opposition, is better than nothing now, but I think 2.3 billion is better than 0.6 billion. And I would say that I am pleased with the initiatives of those who say that these problems should be addressed in full. That's right. But this also means their recognition that so far almost nothing has been done or very little that the whole thing needs to be changed. But here I agree with them. And I am sure that what we have in this law prepared with this amendment, which I have advocated, the second you will be second, is a great step forward for me. This is not the final solution, certainly not, but it is a big step forward. If we get another 15 to 20 thousand scholarships from the state, it's a nice step. And to conclude. I will certainly support this law, even with that amendment that I have explained, that as much money as possible will be given to the grant fund, because this will be the best social transfer and the satisfaction of the goal that we all have: students, their parents and the state, that students can finish their studies as soon as possible and that, at the time of study, they will be able to study at all, they do not need to look for work, but that the student can decide and accept a scholarship. However, if he wants to have a higher standard in doing his exams, he will have more time, and if he wants to get a job, then it is only to say hello because he will also gain some work experience. However, if the legislation changes in this way as it was envisaged that there would also be some working time, it would be fine at all. That would be the ultimate goal and that comprehensive solution. But we know that if we want to come to the tenth floor, we can't jump from first to tenth, but we have to go to the first, second and third and fourth, and it's also one of these steps that we're going to come to the 10th floor and we're going to achieve that comprehensive solution that we're talking about today. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I now invite Mr. Uhanovo to the floor. Then it will be Mr Germič, of course, that some other Members will not appear in the Chamber. Mrs. Uhanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Chairman. Well, hello to everyone who's been following us. I think the marriage is good, and that's why I'm going to support it. It provides social security, it's not lower, just as some of you spoke to me from the opposition. I don't know if we're from different tests, we probably are, but for me, the greatest social security job is. Even at a time when I may not have a job, for old age and for the present time. This is only the greatest value and also the greatest social security, and this law is working and the ministry is working to make as few people as possible unemployed to have as many jobs as possible. For all those who do not have one, let it be the first for the categories that are older, who are harder to work, during the maternity period, and for the time that you lose your job, social security is ensured, and something else, it stimulates employers to hire people who are harder to work. The law is not a step backwards, the law is a step forward, because these rights will actually be useful now. This was written in the previous marriage, as we were told if there was enough money. This right has not been exercised. You have not allocated funds for these rights, you have not stimulated employers to employ during the maternity period, the elderly, etc. And that's why I think this marriage is good. We support the unemployed to accept humanitarian work. If you talk like this before, there'll still be a belief that it's not worth doing. Recently, I had a round table with Roma, and I was told that only one Roma out of about 300 people who live in our congregation is working regularly and one is working in the humanitarian field. And all those other Roma who don't work should be bullied or dissatisfied if it's not worth doing. If the belief is that it is better to sit and wait, nothing will change in our society for a long time. We also support the fact that the Employment Service provides work for students. Why not? The institutes are established, they also provide a second job, and these students will later be the first job seekers and there is nothing wrong with the institutions working in this direction. In particular, I am in favour of the fact that much more funding will go to concession fees for the grant fund. And we should say hello to the students. More scholarships, maybe so many students won't have to work as much as they do now, but I don't think working for students will run out, or anyone else, because we know that fewer and fewer children are being born, and there are fewer and fewer workers. And as has already been said, 40,000 is foreign labour, not just without education, just seasonal workers, just those who peel apples and don't know what, you like to say. These are also doctors, educated people, and there will also be opportunities for students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u45	Yes, Mrs Uhanova, you have now put me in a difficult situation because you have disputed with Mr Rope's views and Mr Rob has not yet debated, which means that he cannot replicate this moment. [[...]] [[The voice from the hall.]] You don't have to. [[...]] That's exactly what I'm saying right now. That's exactly what I'm saying. But I suggest that the mag. Robbery stays on the list. If you want, then you can basically replicate. Yeah, it's just the rules of procedure and the '70s that don't allow me to do that. No, read it, please. Now he has the word, Mr. Germich, and then he can be a magician. Robbery, if he wants to stay on the list. [[No, no, ……]] Good. Mr. Germich, please. Then, according to Mr Germić, as the hall now shows, it will be Mr Jerovšek's turn. Mr. Germich, please. The rest of you, please calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u46	Thank you very much. A chemical package is announced. Dear representatives of the Ministry, Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues! I am also taking part in the view that the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, Mr Drobnič, has missed the opportunity for a law that had a good traveller and has been very correct in many segments or measures in order to bring this law to a successful end. But as we follow his actions and his statements, it becomes clear why that is not the case today. In his public statements, he speaks of his knowledge of the interests of the employees and he will be able to represent the interests of the workers in certain negotiations. Today we have heard that he already knows the interests of the students and will also be able to implement measures in this area for the benefit of the students. That only a few individuals are a problem, but students are the ones who don't understand. It is therefore a shame that such an important law in the reform package in the social field has such a journey during the adoption phase. The very negative passenger also has that the Minister has given his word in the negotiation phase that the law has been harmonised both in the Economic and Social Council and in the government's student affairs world and that, at a later stage, there have been significant changes in the way in which the law has been intervened, which has in fact minimised or destroyed these agreements, and that is why there is also so much disapproval in the adoption of this law. When the coalition itself realized that several of its claims and analyses were wrong and that it underestimated the role and work of student clubs, organisations or any other form of student organisation, it would point out once again what we received from the student organisation of Slovenia. If we have read this carefully, then we can look at this work with pride and we want the work of this student population to continue so concretely, properly and successfully. I myself support all measures that go in the direction of reducing or eliminating all incorrect events and tasks related to student work. But, dear colleagues, have we forgotten that student work has existed in our time? Did we study and work? And I must say that many of us also had scholarships at a time when maybe the scholarship policy was different because of different times. I know a lot of colleagues and colleagues who at the time were improving their social status at the expense of student work, while at the same time carrying out all the student obligations and also implementing the fact that we successfully achieved our education. In doing so, of course, we wanted to build our professional career at this stage of our development, which we knew would have to build on for the rest of our lives with so-called lifelong education and, of course, improve our competences. It is therefore surprising to me here that when we say that a student should study, I fully agree with this, but of course it is right to give them the opportunity to contribute with their work there, because because of the nature of the student work it is difficult to cover them with, say, regular employment and, in fact, student work in some segments is in fact a matter of urgency. I would like to say here that I am very much in favour of forming a grant fund. Here today, I would like to highlight the particulars or to correct statements that are not correct. The text of the law, as presented by the government, formed a fund for scholarships, but the relations were different. This fund was agreed under the component of the distribution of concessionary funds. And today, I am pleased that some, including the coalition's parliamentary groups and the other part of the coalition, see that mistakes have been made here, that consideration has been insufficient, that they actually regret that they have passed the agreements. I am convinced that a different agreement could also be reconciled with the student organisation if this was on the table, if there were arguments that could be strengthened in the grant fund. But, of course, I expect the opposite, given what we discussed yesterday, that we are one of the resources for an investment fund in student homes and to improve technology at universities where we deleted one source, so the budget source has been deleted that this source for the scholarship fund will not be exclusively on the shoulders of the student work, but will also be filled with any other activity. Of course, I want this because I want the young generation to be successful, given that in the coming years it will actually bear all the burden of development and, of course, care for the well-being of all those who live here, the so-called well-being. Here I would also like to point out very much that we are saying that the active population should work and have a job. And this has already been said by the coalition members today, but of course here is a contradictory view of what measures are being taken to encourage this active population. I wrote to the Minister myself about forgiveness and the liquidation of the company in Ferroterm, Vest, Merinka. These events at the end of Styria are large and can be followed elsewhere by Slovenia, what will be done for this population. Today we report to this population that employers will not be exempt from such contributions to employment, i.e. this active population, which is actually carrying sobrema, so that young people have a development and study perspective, or that it is a loaded pension fund, and at the same time this generation bears the fact that it is informed that the pensions from these contributions that we pay will be reduced will have to be taken care of, while at the same time offering solutions that do not actually allow this active population to seek employment. And it is also wrong here to say today that people are not looking for an active job. Perhaps the individuals here may be speculators, but most of the people I know are actively looking for jobs, and only the opportunities on the market are significantly less. And when I connect it with the need to accept every job, then I ask myself whether this generation, which should be active, which should ensure that the entire age vertical is clean, will have to accept every job, low-paid job or youth who are unemployed, say, create a family while at the same time accepting the work of two, three, four degrees lower complexity, the work after the education you have. This is a perspective that goes in my head in the wrong direction, we should offer better jobs, better jobs and more opportunities. I would, of course, like to point out here once again, we had the opportunity for a law that was in line with the social partners on the journey, and at the reception stage we had it at a number of points. We came from a lot of wrong assumptions. Of course, I wish that with today's amendments, some of what we can fix, still be corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u47	Thank you very much. First it's Mr. Zagorac, then it's mag. Robbery. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, chairman. Sam, as my colleague Žgajner said in the opening presentation, I will not support this law. This is the first of the laws of the so-called group of social reforms in the framework of the partnership for development. The basis of this partnership is to be coordination between the partners. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition government, you have managed to coordinate between two parties, the SDS and the NSI. A good partnership journey, a good social development traveller and, last but not least, a lack of coordination with the social partners is so obvious that this law cannot be supported here today. And all I can say is, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] is this, respected social partners, that you can count on our vote against. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Today, in this general debate, we are trying to determine what impact this amendment will have on the effectiveness of employment policy in Slovenia, on social security and on the prospects. I believe that we all want the best for the unemployed, but of course for the students, in the part where we talk about their work. In order not to keep some things open, I will now operate with some numbers very quickly because we have little time. Of course, it is very unusual for some to say that there has never been a return on employers' contributions. This programme was, and at the time I was Minister of Labour alone, we included 20,000 unemployed in this programme and this programme has produced very good results. It is true that there were some changes later when we introduced various forms of active employment policy and a slight reduction in the volume of funds for these purposes, particularly when we introduced labour funds. That was around 2003. But the law had options. The law had options for all unemployed. Any unemployed person could have been subject to reimbursement of contributions, depending, of course, on the employment programmes prepared by the current Minister. What the coalition now proposes is that for some unemployed, this right is violated. They won't even have that option anymore. Even if you want to do the program, it will be clear in advance that they will not be able to have these options. And the key problem for the unemployed in Slovenia lately - this is shown by research - are those who are long-term unemployed, not those who are up to 26 years old, they are the first job seekers; fortunately their situation has improved slightly. But that one, somewhere around the age of 28 to 40. And this particular category has fallen out as an option for this type of active employment policy. And this gives us a sense of concern, and this proves that these proposals are not good and that they cannot be accepted. And that. The government report shows that, structurally speaking, the active employment policy in Slovenia changed in 2005. The cost of employment and administration increased from 26% to 29%. Training programmes remained at about the same level, slightly increased, but at the same time this decreased, as I am talking about, employment incentives declined from the previous around 20% to 13%. And that's bad. And today we are explaining that this coalition should maintain at least an option in the law and then, given the actual situation in the labour market, adapt the active employment policy and channel resources where they can deliver the greatest results. Of course, we appeal to the coalition, but there's probably no way we can change that part. That is why we have also prepared an appropriate amendment at the parliamentary club, and we will propose that it be accepted without much hope that we will succeed in the end. But we warned, and the warning remains written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek now has the word, and then, if the situation remains in the Chamber as it is, it is already Mr Gulič's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The law before us is, in my opinion, good. This is an improvement in the type of articles and types of methods of employment and I am sure it will also produce results. Certainly, however, marriage is not ideal, since even in an area that is largely imported, it cannot be an ideal marriage overnight. And it's because the marriage is good, because good solutions that will enable the unemployed are hard to get to work, so that employers can be stimulated in the right places, to hire the right people. As a result, the opposition, which ran this area a few months ago, is today so nervous and so concerned. The arguments with which they attack solutions in this law are completely unconvincing. They seek political floscules and, in fact, purely to disqualify at ideological level and also oppose certain categories of conflicts between interests, such as student officials and the student population, among the interests of workers and trade union officials. I must tell you that there is always such a gap, there can be, after all, your client is a case that there has been a gap between the interests of party officials and voters. Elections are clear evidence. In political parties, this is checked in elections. In these organisations, elections are also taking place, but this is changing during the term of office. The fact is that in some segments, under the previous leadership of the student organisation, there was this gap between the interests of students and certain officials. Finally, this is shown by the survey, very representative of which was carried out, and more than four fifths, 83.3% of respondents agree that part of the funding received from the student work for their work, the functioning of the student organisation, and part of the funding received by the student service, is intended for scholarships. Will they recognize the interest between students and others in their own organization among students? [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] That some people are [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] I know they have new leadership now and things will be improved. I'm sure of that. But this gap is coming and, therefore, opposed to being given more to scholarship, I do not see any real arguments for such a thing. But I see the reasons for your nervousness, because in these last days we have had some of these laws, which are very much supported in public, and I firmly believe that they will help to raise awareness, say, student organisations, raise awareness of workers against trade unions, all that will also have positive effects. With this nervousness, I have to respond to the fact that there is an excess of cynicism, which has previously been said to be said to be totalitarian of these benches. And this from the mouth of his colleague Gabra, who, following the testimony of many of his students and students with great zeal, interpreted Marksize, the totalitarian regime, the totalitarian methods, perhaps also poisoned someone with indoctrination. These sediments stretch for a long time, that's true, but no. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u53	Mr Jerovšek, we're back on a personal level. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u54	but perverse cynicism is to be seen from such a mouth that has indoctrinated people with totalitarianism. [[...]] If I return to these amendments again, I think that there have been improvements in the debate and all of this, that we will also be able to devote more to the grant fund at the expense of the increased concession fee and that things will be managed in a positive direction. I would also like to say that there are completely unjustifiable allegations that we have something against student work. No, let the student work continue to be a function of improving social status, but not that at student parties they will be thinning and thickening and I don't know what they were bottling, some individuals who have abused their student work in some way, and in this there is a general consensus in the public, including on the basis of surveys. And if you're defending all this, then you're defending the interests of those, I know why you're defending those interests. Because there's a cord between these interests and these abuses and your clients. There's a very strong umbilical cord here, and you're scrupulously defending yourself from cutting this cord. And these solutions in this law will reduce some anomalies, but they will not cut everything that is wrong. And I have to say this about employment. In these previous mandates, last but not least, active employment policy has become a downturn or negative policy. Here was one of the biggest national money transfers into exactly the dedicated pocket. There was a lot of talk in front of the public about what is being achieved by this policy. However, it happened that subsidies for new jobs were received either once, twice, three times, by the same employers who opened the company, hired, fictitiously employed, received subsidies and sometimes did not pay social contributions to their workers, closed up, sent the company to bankruptcy, and got the money back. There are a number of such cases. It was a theft and a transmission of money. As a result, this active employment policy has become a negative policy. I firmly believe that in the current ministry too, it is necessary to have extremely good control over these policies, because if there is no control [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u55	Please, just let Mr. Jerovšek speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u56	there are irregularities and I do not want the irregularities that have taken place in this area to occur in our mandate. [[...]] I will support the law and some amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Now, of course, he has a replica of Dr. Gaber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Jerovšek is a man of a very specific range of thought and thought. It all goes back to black and white movies. All that he does and what he does is good, right, all that others have done is wrong and bad. Some steal, he's a great honest man, some are connected to strange connections, he'll fix it all and save the world. If anyone believes a man like that, just trust him. More or less, it serves one purpose: to discredit people. And it does more or less damage to what Parliament is here for. For he believes that Parliament is in the world in order to talk about it, Parliament is a place in which agreements need to be concluded and where arguments need to be argued. None of this can be heard from his mouth, and I want him to work for others as long as he has.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u59	Thank you very much. But I would like to point out once again that such a debate at people does not lead anywhere. Of course, if someone mentions someone, it may even be offensive to expect the reaction to be what it is. Let us try to stay at the level of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia rather than any less valuable institution. We continue with the debate, I invite Mr Gulic to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u60	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I will remain on the subject not only at the level of the National Assembly, but also at the content, because it is so indicative of the fact that it is linked to this bill that we have before us today. Parliament's function is to negotiate, Parliament's function is to talk, of course, it is also that different positions are presented, and at the same time the aim of all of this, at least half of the work, is to adopt laws, the other half to oversee the work of the government and the implementation of laws. The other half of them, of course, are not being removed because they prefer to do much, at least the coalition, how to change the laws in order to meet what the government wants. It is said that the government is not the one to enforce laws, but it is now the one to regulate them so that, of course, they correspond to their work or not to begin with. Of course, this is also evident in this law. Look what they've done. Of course, they took all the rights, returned some of them, and now they're pounding on your chest like Tarzan, see what good we give you back. At the same time, of course, they ignore a large part of the Slovenian population. Most unemployed, however, are between 26 and 55 years of age. And all of a sudden they don't have the rights they had before. Even those who are supposed to receive new rights have not received any new ones, but are only confirmed by the ones they have so far. With a similar trick, they go to the student work, in a way that discredits the entire student organization, discredits students, their parents, suddenly none of the students actually study anymore, all of them serve something. By the way, most of the student work is done in public administration, state administration, so we know who that employer who is operating is, then they're going around the media interpreting different earnings. I can say them online: Secretary-General 450 thousand, Head of the Financial Service 265,000, Representative for Public Relations 218, Expert Fellow 170, Business Secretary 155. These are the numbers people get in their hands. Of course, there are other costs. But every company that does whatever it is still has extra costs, wherever they're going. However, I agree with Mr Jerovsk, who said that a lot is changing during the term of office. I hope that people hear this and that something else will change during the term of office, even because this law is not a step back, it is true, it is not a step forward, no, it is a step into the void.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jeraiev has the word, and then he's a magician. Spending. Please, Mrs. Jeraeva.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. I will talk about concession funds and a new distribution or proposal for distribution. Concession funds are a tax that the state has waived for the benefit of student organisation, namely the Student Organisation of Slovenia, and part of it remains a student service for the costs incurred by the intervention of work. That this is a lucrative business, many events show, purchases of real estate and the like that we have witnessed in recent years. It is also true that these profits were forged mainly by those services that had been on the scene for a long time or were established as soon as such a system was established and when the services were not very large when the student work flourished, not because of the students who worked, but because of many times those who were not students, they worked through student travel. But in order for someone to work like that, the student had to lend him a travel agent or give it to him, and that's why he got a commission of 10%. And it was also a very good business. It is true that the previous government has detected this problem and taken some measures that have led to increased control and reduced student work, according to some figures, even by 30%, compared to previous years. This is good because, in my opinion, it was mainly to reduce actually the work that was not a student's work and that now in fact, most of them are students and students and not pensioners and many others who have done so before. Although it still happens that some student with a status lends a companion to a student who is a pauser or something, but let's just say that we've reached some solid level here. A student’s work is not a problem in itself, and it is right that students and students have the opportunity to work and thus earn something to do to relieve their parents. In my opinion, however, the problem arises when the student is exploited when he works more than eight hours, eight hours or more, and he is not only a student anymore or could be told that he is a worker because he is burdened with work as much as he is regularly employed, and of course we expect him to study regularly and perform his exams. Not many students worked that way before graduation, and then the diploma waited because they had been at work all day. The student is also willing to work more than occasionally and for some supplement and, of course, this employer is skillfully exploiting, he has no obligation to the student, he can cancel it at any time. But it is harder for the student, after one year or two in the company, to be congratulated, the employees honour the drink and the meal, and then they thank him and send him away and take him to his place as another student. Although a student often does a job requiring a diploma or a higher job, it is not only less difficult and insignificant work that students do. They work many times in these jobs, including systematic ones, with the promise that the company will hire them after graduation, which of course does not happen. And who is deprived? A student or a young graduate. When he is looking for employment, they are not interested in where he has worked for two years or a year, what he has done, what he has, what he has, what he does not have, even a working day, for the first time on the labour market. The result is that he has no work experience and therefore cannot be employed. The Government is aware of the problem and has therefore prepared some amendments to the laws, some are still promising and I hope that this area will be properly regulated. It has also written positive proposals in the reform package, which means that in time we will also carry out the Young Expert project and so on. The law we are discussing brings positive changes to the student protection and also to student organisation. Our amendment, the SDS amendment and New Slovenia, which we will support in our parliamentary group, raises the concession fee to 13%. For the employer this is still relatively favourable, for the student the same. As much as he's earned before, he'll earn now. We still support student organisation. The student organisation of Slovenia will receive 2.73 billion per calculation, which is even more than the initial agreement reached with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The same amount of resources remains for student labour brokering services, which is 2.73 billion. What is most important is the new 2.34 billion that will flow into the scholarship fund. And it's not true that students will work and earn their own scholarships and take students with it. The student will work as hard as he's worked so far, earn as much as he's earned so far. Otherwise, the concession is shared, as I said, by a tax that the state gave up on him for something. We have decided to grant this concession, to distribute this tax differently, to devote part of it to scholarships, which is the requirement of students as well as the need, which is why we all agree that more scholarships are needed in order to provide studies for as many young people as possible. The student organization says that a large number of students have to work to be able to study and that we are now taking this away from them. It's not true, because the concession student wouldn't get it, they'd get the student service and they'd get it from the S.H.I.E.L.D. From now on, he'll be filling out the scholarship fund. In the event of labour intervention through employment agencies, the institutions will obtain important information about students and will be more easily guided after the first job seekers. Today, these data are mainly provided by student services and not by seductions. However, if the two could be linked, they would probably be much more effective in the intervention of the first job, especially for young people. However, if, in order to reduce student work, someone is afraid that there will be too little funding for student organisation, then let us take the initiative to propose that the entire concession will expire into the state budget and directly from the budget are provided with funding for student organisation. This way the funds will be provided, they will not be run out, and there will be no fear of ending student organisation. Of course, the use of the budget resources by controls is slightly different than in the existing system, so we probably have not heard such a proposal to date.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u63	The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Once again, everyone, welcome! When I presented the views of the Group of Members, I said that we had achieved something small in the context of negotiation and coordination, but that we could not fall into the concept of legislative changes. Here I would like to touch again what is essential to me as a social democrat. The reforms and actions of this government are largely based on the idea of each individual helping himself to be responsible for his or her own destiny. This is an extremely liberal but also a neo-conservative thesis, which I cannot accept because I believe that, in addition to being sure that the individual is responsible for his or her career plan, it is necessary to ask whether the state is giving him the opportunity to implement such a plan. Here I have a lot of comments at the expense of this government and at the expense of these legal solutions. If we are discussing how the public opinion is unfavorable to the unemployed, how else can we understand that you are waving with a number, that more than 80% of the respondents say that the unemployed should take all the work? I asked those who told me that unemployed workers were also, for one particular category of people, or that if employers were willing to hire such a person, you wouldn't believe the answer was no. When we talk about someone having to accept every job, we need to ask ourselves whether the one that we are already declaring has already in advance as a part-timer and as a bluffer, or whether we are also offering employment opportunities. And here I must say that in some countries of the European Union they are much more sensitive, understanding and successful in the search for such measures. After all, something small was discovered today that the former government could do something. When interpreting the government as much as possible, numerical indications were given of how much was done by active employment policies, including measures to prevent abuse, and even then the conditions for applying at least time to pay for unemployment, as well as cash social assistance, had already been tightened. Therefore, saying that he has begun to make peace only now will not be a matter of keeping. And even public opinion, if you like to refer to him, don't think so. One of the public media published a survey on how citizens and citizens of Slovenia see the percentage or reduction of corruption and other negative phenomena, and found that this is very large, 84%, that very few have said that nothing has been reduced or even increased. So you know, these are very questionable things when we refer to data, but usually by quoting those we like. Now allow me to make some more detailed provisions, which, of course, I cannot agree with, which are included in this law, I am going to do. For instance. The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons says that one of the measures to reduce unemployment will also be to stimulate employers to hire the unemployed for the period of working on maternity leave. When he recommends this measure, the Minister of Education says that in schools instead of in-laws, the Minister must not be allowed to work or that any such employment must be authorised by the Minister. And you could look for cases like this where one says so, and the other says otherwise. Now let us say what the declared aid to the first job seekers and structural unemployment really brings. Slovenia considers that the age or percentage of the active population among older workers is lower than the European average. We can answer the question ourselves why. Because we have placed an early retirement or relief as a way out before a huge percentage of the increase in unemployment. But look. Previously, the law laid down a year in which the employer can exercise the right to reimbursement of costs, as it is now written in the same way, at the age of 50, it is now at the age of 55. Indeed, it was said earlier that half the costs were paid, but that half of them amounted to two years, now only one year. It is not necessary to be a skilled mathematician to calculate what has increased, what has decreased, not to repeat what has already been said several times today, because it is only between the 26th and 28th years, two years is the time that has been stimulated for the employer. To clarify, for persons under the age of 28, who are more than 24 months of age, two years of unemployment, the employer is exempt for one year of payment, sorry, not forgiven, his contributions are reimbursed if he is employed by such a person. Now look what we've done with this. By the time we were 26 years old, we had to protect someone or offer them the opportunity to pay their contributions, and then they could lose their jobs, and they had to be unemployed for two years by the age of 28. Between the years 28 and 55, there's nothing. So many who are so enthusiastic about how much better this law is now than previous solutions. There's really no radical change, and I'm gonna end it here. Discussions with the social partners have taken place in this direction so that the Employment and Insurance Act would require more, indeed, greater interventions and comprehensive renovations in the event of unemployment. Instead, they agreed on smaller interventions, and not all of them are in the end all in line with the social partners, not to mention that some things are being resolved in this law, which should actually be resolved in other laws in conversations with the social partners. Here are the solutions that are supposed to reduce work to black, but they could be resolved by some special law that would include so-called alternative or other forms of employment, where the student work is not the last. I mentioned earlier that the law on scholarships should be adopted earlier, not in the law on employment and unemployment insurance in case of unemployment, to save things from a concession fee, which we do not even know how far it will be in the future, because student work is limited at all stages, if you admit it or not admit it. This amendment, which was just before the speech and has been tabled by two coalition parties, is also a gradual step towards reducing student work because its effect is less competitive, and you explained earlier that you want to achieve it and it will also affect how much of this work they will be able to mediate. The other thing that bothers me about it. Intervention of student work will also be possible in the new form of an employment agency. Everything's fine and fine. But the concessions, what the student organisation can now get for its work, will not be segregated by the employment agency of the student organisation. We made such an amendment, but it wasn't accepted. Now, do not say that those who advocate such views have only good purposes and only the purposes that concern the labour market. In fact, the effects of this law against the student organization are inspired, with more views. No one who is smart will object to an increase in funds and an increase in the grant fund. But any smart one will also consider from which resources the scholarship fund is filled and whether this grant fund has the guaranteed permanent resources filled. I claim that the concession is not a permanent and solid source of filling of the scholarship fund. What was backed up in public with numbers was misleading because it was calculated at a time when the scope of the student work was greater than what was known last year and will probably be, I say probably because I don't know, like some who know everything already in advance, I don't know what statistics will show for this year. It's just one of the parts. I really think it's deceiving if some people just have data on material costs and anything else that undermines the need for a student organization to operate. I know that some can live without many things, even without cultural activities, which are co-financed by the student organisation, even without student publications and student radio, even without programmes that we have already talked about, and reduce everything only to abuse. But let us speak honestly once about things, let us look for ways and measures and effective control mechanisms to prevent abuses under existing legislation and not take solutions that have different effects from those declared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u65	Mr. Magg has the word. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mrs Potrate obviously did not read the amendment that we tabled together with the SDS, which says that even if the institution organises the student work, the concessions, part of the concessions, will be separated. That is why I mentioned that 65% of the concession will be transferred to a special fund, which means that 35% of all this money is still going to the SOS. This was our proposal because we were aware that maybe [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u67	Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In fact, I would now like to refer here to a speech by my fellow Member, Potrate, who either wishes to deceive the public on purpose or he doesn't know things, I would rather say he wants to mislead the public. I would like to begin by stating that this law is meant to ensure or introduce that each individual should help himself. I come from a very well-known conclusion here that I am sure that each individual must first help himself, but help him, if necessary, by the state or something else. Its declaration, then, that one year of payment of the contribution to employers who will employ persons up to 26 years of age, or those who replace workers at maternity and over 55 years of age, is that this actually reduces the scope of those rights enjoyed by the current law. I say it's not like that. Every employer, who knows what it means to have a good worker, realizes that a worker is the greatest wealth. In one year, if the worker who will be sent there will be freed from paying his contributions, if this worker turns out to be, I firmly believe he will be happy to hire him. Despite the abundance of unemployed people, the need for good workers is certainly very, very large and difficult to find a good worker or expert. Then the claim that age increases or increases to those who will also receive these subsidies to 55 years, from 50 years to 55 years. There will be a number of changes to be made in the future, as not only this legislation, but another legislation, will have to be adapted as the life expectancy or the average life expectancy increases. Well, I'm afraid that's the way it is. There's been a lot of hearing here today, and I'm saying it's a delusion, and it's a conscious deception to the public that the student work will be affected. That's not true in any way. The student work will be to the same extent as it was and no one is limiting it at all. The fact that it seeks to avenge or reduce contributions or funds to student organisations by such a division of concessions is also not corrected. And that is not the purpose of this law either. However, I firmly believe that in the future the scope of the student work will certainly be lower or smaller. There will be more scholarships, in fact there will be more reasons why it will no longer be possible to invoke this as a social correction, because the student who will have the grant will no longer, at least so assumed, have an interest in working, but study to study as soon as possible, to get to the right service and to get to the right salary as soon as possible, which he also deserves to be used no more than in the current cases. I'd like to touch a few more student organisations here. Two days ago, I had a very substantively in-depth discussion with a former senior official in the Student Organisation of Slovenia. When we were talking, he couldn't believe, he really couldn't believe the anomalies that had now been brought into student organisations, especially in the field of high wages that had not been paid in the past. And here, if we now refer again to the data two years ago, but this has nothing to do with it, the cake received by the student organisation of the University of Ljubljana, just over a billion dollars, was spent on more than 330 million salaries and fees alone. I think every comment is superfluous. At the same time, I would like to stress only that only 6 million have been earmarked for socially disadvantaged students, and I think I am stepping up. Then you can figure out how much each one of them got. A piece of data that deserves serious consideration. Then it is clear that the coalition regrets some of the solutions that have been adopted in previous proceedings. This is also a ridiculous observation, for that is why the legislative procedures are such that we have more treatments, precisely so that we can look for solutions from one to the other that can be better than the previous ones. This marriage is under consideration or, I'll say, at least in preparation for over a year and a half. I have participated in these drafts on my own several occasions, and we have met many times with students and other interested groups and have sought solutions. From the first draft to today, it would be almost difficult to recognize that the content is the same, but I am sure that from month to month the content or solutions have led to an improvement. This proposal, which we now have, as I said in the introduction to the presentation of the parliamentary group, is certainly an optimal solution. The next thing you would touch it is an indication of the lower paid work that should be accepted by people who do not have a job that is somehow equivalent to an education. I've already told this case, and I'm going to do it again. In one successful Slovenian company, there was a call for a job for a medium-educated employee. There were 250 requests and more than half of them were with higher or higher education and university education. It means that it's not really the reason that it's lower-valued work, but, above all, what it's worth. And here, too, my experience shows me that employees or those unemployed really want to take hold of a decent job that guarantees him existence and does not want to avoid work. But there certainly are some, and these are not so few to avoid. I can tell you an example from Krske, where the unemployed person received social assistance and when he was elected a municipal councillor, his social assistance was reduced or he was suspended because the meeting was so large or was slightly higher than the social assistance itself. However, it was a major controversy on the part of this person to withdraw from the Council because he had to sit on the municipal council once a month and did not have to do so when receiving social assistance. There aren't so many cases like this. Then there's the obvious grip on every piece of work we hear here several times. Here too is the abuse of this solution. This solution does not speak for every job, but for every suitable work, and this is a fundamental difference. And here in this law there is certainly such a solution in the direction of better results, and above all that any unemployed person who is capable of carrying out a job in a psychophysical manner will have a significantly easier starting point for a new job. Unfortunately, any employer who receives an application from an unemployed person or from someone seeking employment with him feels quite differently about the person who has a job than about the unemployed. Is it in the subconscious whether this is the climate in Slovenia. This means that if a person does a job, a job, even if it is not suitable for his education, his abilities, or if he is able to do so with the same employer himself, or if he does so, he will find work elsewhere significantly easier than he would otherwise have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u69	Ma'am mag. You have a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u70	Yes, thank you. Well, I'm an optimist, so I still think it's worth questioning or answering to Mr. Grill, who never regularly understands me and regularly tells me that I'm cheating and that I'm lying. But if at least Mr Grill could honestly say how this amendment was made after long coordination, after you completely cut the student organisation, when the law was not adopted in the second reading and we have only now a third treatment, after you wanted to limit the student work to 42 hours, and to 90 days when the income was limited. Say that with me. Where did this enlightenment and such an excellent amendment come from? Or is this a solution that is optimal, and you claim to be the one who will control it? [[...]] How are you going to do that? You thought it would be necessary to control it! That's a great solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u71	Does the government have a wish? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of a review of the amendments of 13.7.2006. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the LDS Group, the 4 amendments of the SD Group of Members of the Social Democrats, the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS Group of Members and the amendments of the SLS and DeSUS Group of Members of the SD and NSI. Who wants a word? Mr. Brenčich. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everyone. We've got a lot of time left, so I'm not in any particular hurry. I'd say that first. I will not, nor will I need to paint a black and white image, as if everything that came once upon a day was cloudy, mudy, all that flows today, including this law, but is a beautiful crystal source. This is not the case, and it is good to try to correct it a little bit. Of course, part of this cleaning is also Article 4 and Article 6 of the basic law. That this possibility had also come about, of course, thanks to the fact that we have chosen enough wisdom and we are in another reading, when this article was designed in the form that it was for the third reading, was sufficiently willing to take time and to somehow make this article, which is a key article of this law, somewhat more lifeless if not more just. That is why we have taken the will and the need to prepare an amendment in the parliamentary group. I will now focus mainly on our amendment, later on something else, and I am pleased that another coalition party has supported us in this desire and has also signed the amendment. The starting point of this segment, which we are considering in the amendment and the intervention in the student work, was in preparation after the second reading, in the draft law for the third reading, was unacceptable. For the first time in the fact that we are talking about the concession fee that students create directly with their work and practically this concession fee and scholarship fund as well as a special concession fee of 2% for building houses are practically full of their earnings from their smaller net earnings. They practically build student homes from their work and fill up the fund that we welcome, especially for the scholarship of their arriving craftsmen. And that's why it doesn't matter how we build this shape. That is why we have pursued at least three objectives. First of all, I'm going to say that our amendment is not ideal, which nobody is blind. But we wanted to do so much articulate it until we put it into the content that we found that it was practically the only balanced situation affecting this segment. First, we wanted to preserve the starting image of the law, which was harmonised. After this segment, students are a key factor. In addition, we wanted to follow the applicant in some way and to reduce the unfair competition of student work for a regular job search. And thirdly, we wanted to increase the concession fee. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Thirdly, however, we wanted to establish or maintain neutral or healthy competition on the market of suppliers. That is why we also said that the institution that comes to the market as a new student worker should have the same obligation both to the fund and to student organisations. I will not say, nor do we in the Group of Members say that everything is the best in the system of student organisation. However, the fact is that if we were to implement the starting point as it was completed after the second reading, this approach is an unendurable systemic breakdown of the current student organisation, which is not good. The type of projects taken by the SOS are good. If I just mention the local clubs of students funded by this title, in last year almost billions. Without this money, students are practically unable to breathe seriously at the local level. That's why we said, let's go in this segment by trying to provide a slightly larger in-put than the means. Of course, we had in mind the fact that by increasing the concession to 12%, by 2%, of course, this issue will suddenly be transmitted to the net earnings of students. First, it's the employer's burden. Therefore, we have carefully considered how to cover or to what extent we hope to increase this duty. And we said let it be. Then we shared it as follows from the explanations of the amendments. The one who has deepened into explanation is well-intentioned, genuine, broad me in two sentences, populist, as an alternative to our amendment by the other two coalition parties. This is why we want to pursue some kind of well - intentionedness so that this segment of marriage can be changed as wisely as possible. This is said to be 12% of the concession fee running a lot more. It is clear from this title that after the projection, the implementation in 2004 will flow into the state budget, as 20% of the tax is exempt from the concession, an additional 320 million. If the accession of the other coalitions and ministries, including the government, is genuine, then to release this difference of money for the benefit of the fund and will be in line with the additional 320 million in this projection, it will certainly be less, because the data on the scale of implementation for 2005 are a good 25% lower than the baseline of the 2004 Act. We then devote 37.5% of this benefit to separating students, for all their products, of which the natural selector will not be sufficient, because they are shrinking, and even less so that they will in some transparent, transparent way also the organisational structure of students through the natural system, but that is why radical interventions that are not good are not necessary. This society doesn't need this kind of intervention, not at all when we're faced with the fact that in the time we live, you want us to, you don't want a certain reform. We said the same thing. This percentage goes to the middlemen. I do not want to twist the sword, simplisticly, but those who do it should deepen, what in the existing scale or scope of costs represents to those who offer work, the whole cut, and you will see if it remains as the starting point for the third reading, all the providers, all the student services operating in environments where it is harder to get realisation, are practically failing. Only some major student services can be maintained. But it doesn't have to be done. This transformation will come on its own if the institution carries out the right mission by having the advantage of making it available to the State for the costs it will have with its job offering. And that's why the percentage of the fund at 25% of this tax is maintained, which means the actual same amount of funds as the starting point for the third reading, which I think is correct. All that is more, you know, but finally they must give the green light to those who create it. These are the students. I just don't understand the Ministry's approach. The Ministry drafted a law for the government, the government adopted it, offered an existing 10% concession. That was their suggestion. And I don't understand them that at the same time, 11%, 12% is acceptable to them, then 12% is no longer, and now 13% is acceptable. That's not good, my dear. That wasn't worthy. What does 13% of the concession fee mean? It means that students will give the state budget an additional 160 million, starting in 2004. It means that the post-festum will suddenly become only less competitive and therefore less realisation, less transfer of funds to the grant fund, less transfer of funds to the fund for the construction of student homes. But the student work has been and will continue, with all the segments it has, socially, generally, useful. If we reduce their unfair competition for a nuance, we went against the applicant, but we have to have a measure here. For these reasons, of course, we wanted to make this amendment much broader, the best of course consensus was not within the coalition and we decided to go with it. I say that everything more than this balanced proposal needs to be said again, let's stop and see that we will not eventually take a step into the unknown, which will be worse than better after the level of funds in the fund. We do not want to be liked, but I know that at a given time and in a given state with the knowledge that this work is falling down, that this is still the last kind of acceptable option. It is right that the institution here separates, which was not a proposal from the starting points for a third reading. We have transposed this in our amendment because we claim that it must be equally committed to the institution for part of the funds spent in favour of student organisation. Whether someone likes it or not, but the fact is that it is still those state authorities or governments that have faced a heavy relationship with students that have eventually had to correct their approaches, because it is a general fact that is not from, I don't know, which year, but it is here for a long time, regardless of the type and color of systems in that country and those of society that currently run the country. So I certainly strongly recommend, not because of the likeness that the amendment that we have prepared is the only real possibility in what we have on the table today. We can increase this to 13%, but it would be fair, because the ministry advocates, at the same time, even a 3% higher concession fee in favour of the fund, as it suggested that for at least a percentage that is not now up to 13%, it would go to 3% for the additional concession fee under the law that we discussed yesterday and a slightly more optimistic approach in line with the construction of the home. That would be much more correct and credible. It's not the Ministry that's responsible for this, but we're talking about content that's powered from the same trough. I don't know what else to say. I'll call if I have to. We don't have to whine in this segment, I don't know, whip by student service. Those who have gone a little deeper into the financial operations of the services over the past two years are so dimensionally opposite. If we only compare the Maribor Student Service years ago, but that is why it is not so much the fault of the legislation, but especially the highly profiled approaches, how can we walk around some kind of knife tip in this legislation. But if we are correct, what has been going on in recent years is different, and we must, for the basis of the law in question, now entering into this social climate and resolving a social issue, act with facts and with real capture and the situation in the current state. I am sure that these resources will not be enough to maintain the package now offered by the SOV. And they will be forced to reorganise both in the management system and in the products they offer. It is a shame, though, that some products will be extinguished, which are good. But it doesn't matter if they came a little back, we lived five, ten years ago, and in different coalitions for the good of this country and its people. And before such an assumption, this entire coalition could be in harmony with the proposal we have drawn up in the best interests of the law, so that the law, which is good, will be even better in this segment. Now, just two more words on the second resignation with which the SD Group of Members acts in the amendment. Of course, I've been kind of in favour of the ministry's approach to somehow cutting up the excessive abuses that are now taking place in the monetary welfare recipients segment. But still. If we look at the profile of these recipients and how many young people there are, and if we find that these relatively mentally unstable people are at risk, and now we give this person a chance to take over every job, that's a big question. I'm a little afraid of that. However, I am not cognizant of this because these are compatible with one another of your other amendments, but to take the same parameters as for those who are beneficiaries of the compensation, which are already covered by the insurance they are paying from work, so that there is a lack of adequate employment, which would have been defined by a slightly different approach. Whether it is possible to do so by means of a submarital act or not. But I do know that in this segment, I'm afraid that it would be good to have an extra security guard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u73	Mr. Bajc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u74	Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary-General, with his co-workers and co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we have heard much about the content of this law, which we are dealing with, and we have listened to it in our second reading. Regrettably, the Rules of Procedure also allow for a broad discussion of the content and everything else that cannot be changed in the third reading. It is only possible to change what has been adopted either with amendments and amendments have been tabled today. Regardless of the fact that I was expected by the students that day when we adopted the law in second reading with whistles and also paper carpets, and would soon not have let me through before the entrance of this hall, I, together with my colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party's Group, made an effort to prepare an amendment which we believe, and as colleague Brenčič said, to the greatest extent possible follow what was agreed between the representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the representatives of the students. I would not like to repeat what colleague Brenčič said in his introduction, but some facts. As he said, we have been looking for some compromise that the purpose of the funds provided to student workers in the same nominal amount remains to be allocated to student organisations in the same nominal amount and that what has been managed by the Ministry of Change of this Law remains to be allocated to scholarships for the work of students. When we coordinated the content of this law within the coalition, it is interesting that in the basic text there were 10 speeches at all times. And our proposal, which we put into coalition coordination, could have been almost a conviction, except for colleague Žnidaršič, who sat next to me and looked at the actual content of this joint amendment and said, "I will also sign it on behalf of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons." In the next debate, the proposal that we should not go to 12, we can even go to 13 and so on. I don't understand it that way, as my colleague Brenčič himself said, who is more at home in this area than ever before, where such a change is coming from. Not to be too long. Colleagues and colleagues, I estimate that the amendment signed by the two coalition parties is to the greatest extent approximate to what the Ministry originally drafted, and above all it is almost identical to that, except that it goes from 10 to 12 this contribution, as it was also coordinated with students or students' organisations. And I invite my colleagues and colleagues to support this amendment. I will also support the amendment under order number 3.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u75	The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u76	Thank you. We have tabled four amendments to Article 4 of the Social Democrats. The second and fourth amendments touch on suitable employment for recipients of financial social assistance, or on their obligations, which work is undertaken after the intervention of the employment institution. We believe that it is right if this category of job seekers is equal to those of the unemployed who are recipients of the cash compensation for the period of unemployment. Thus, instead of each work, we propose every suitable job. The same is true of the fourth amendment. The amendment to Article 4 under order number seven refers to the fact that every student worker, i.e. the employment agency as well as student services, should separate concessions according to the same procedures as now applied to student services, according to the scholarship fund, also for material costs, but also for the student organisation. And these are the three amendments that we are proposing in the third instance for the adoption of the national assembly, which means that we have not changed our position since the beginning of the law. If any other amendment is accepted, however, any of our proposals will be taken into account, we will be pleased. But don't be blinded to the fact that the willingness to make our proposals has always been what it appears to be right now. And now to the last, this is to the eighth amendment to this article. With this amendment, we try to enforce what has been agreed between the partners. According to 10% of the concessions according to those percentages that were predetermined, it is 2 times 35 for the scholarship fund and for the student service, excuse me, 2 times 45 and so for the student service also the corresponding amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u77	Mr. Petan has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. I will defend our amendment for a simple reason. We need to ask ourselves what I've said several times today, what our goal is. Our goal is to enable students to study properly, not to work. They can work if they have time left or not, I don't know if that's their express wish, but to be able to study, that's not our goal. Our goal must be to be able to study without having to work. And if we're pursuing this goal, and we've been following it, that's our view, we're not saying that you have other people wrong, so you're defending other opinions. But our goal is that students can learn as soon as possible to be active in the labour market, it is said that they will also be employed, so that they can be put back into the fund, etc., because then we will be a social state. But if we have ten years of students who don't have one hour of work when they're 30 years old, then it's gonna be hard for them. And in this context, we have also prepared this amendment and allow what it means for the student work data for 2005 and 2006. There's 60 billion, and 10% of the concession is 6 billion, that's clear, because here we know all the computers. Let's say our amendment says that this concession fee would then be 7.8 billion, for student service work would be 2.73 billion, the same for student organisations, for scholarships of 2.34 billion. If this is of course reduced, 30% for scholarships and 35% for the other two in this system, 25% means only 1.8 billion for scholarships and 2.7 billion the same for student services and student organisations. 10% only means 600 million, nothing more. This is not our goal, our goal is not, if someone else's goal is, okay, they said it and they wrote it down, but they can't say that it's better to follow this goal better, so that we can give students scholarships. Only from this account is indeed not, but the state has already said that it will give something else, that the minister also said in this chamber a few days ago, and I believe it, and it doesn't matter if we don't have any scholarship fee or if we have, I don't know, just from this title, a good two billion, and the country has something in it. At that time, there were talks about 15,000 scholarships that could be obtained in combination with this work and with what the state committed itself to. I think we need to pressure the government to give any more of this title, of course, these are essential differences. Now, if 13% of the student work concession fee is such a heavy burden, then I don't know what the 80% burden is on the regular job. 80 to 10 or 80 to 13, but is that such a terrible burden? I don't think so. But if that 3% really threatens 10 to 13, then one way or another the system is completely wrong and it's confused with healthy logic. We are in favour of this proposal, which we have tabled, the data is also clear, of course others have different views and this, well, does not bother us, but our view is different, obviously we differ in the goals that we are pursuing, which is that every student could have a scholarship and that work would not be a category that is even a condition for some to study, but as an additional form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u79	Mr. Magg has the word. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u80	Thank you very much. So, in this debate, it should be stressed that the expectation that at any rate the expected amount of money will remain for scholarships is completely misleading. And in this context, we must say that the amendment prepared by the Slovenian People's Party, which we approached primarily because it was the closest one to keeping the agreement reached with the students, is even the least harmful in the sense that it would increase the competitiveness of the student work on the one hand and, on the other hand, it allowed about as much money for the student organisation's research activities as could be expected from the previous relationship. But there is no guarantee that this will happen. We do not know what the impact of this deterioration of the competitiveness of this work will be on the scope of the student work, which could already affect the fact that the money will be less than expected in the scholarship fund, so it is an illusion to think that an increase in the percentage to 13 or even more would contribute to the student fund in proportion. It could be very abruptly broken down and worse, so in this sense we think that the Slovenian People's Party's Amendment, with our signature, is worthy of our support in the hope that what we expect will happen. Even this change is not certain if it will be good enough to feel a certain decline in the volume of student work. And by doing so, it is important to count, otherwise all of our desires are to increase the scholarship fund, only the fairy tales for this moment, which will later prove to be with one other cruel reality, from which no one will have anything, not the state, nor the scholarship fund, but even less students who have developed a number of research activities through this model over so many years, who will thus experience a reduction of funds, at the same time start to run out or die out: and this is not a good thing to count and we do not agree with it, so we will support this amendment in the hope that it will experience broad enough support for it to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u81	Mr. Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u82	Thank you very much. It can be fun to play, but there'll be so much money, and let's write -- there'll be 20,000 scholarships. But that's incorrect, people. We're a government coalition. The government coalition, which has proposed a law that has been coordinated with partners; and these have concluded, these partners that create this value from which we fill this fund, and they said, this has never happened before. Now I'm going to be a little bit more of a burden on them, and we're going to have the fund, and it's always going to be in the process, and there's been no talk about any additional resource from the levy. It is only after we have prepared that the consequences have been severely exaggerated, including the students, which at one time can go to the government and we as a coalition, a responsible coalition, to 13% to fill the state budget. This is unfair, people of God. Let's be a little credible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u83	Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u84	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! What is the primary category in this matter, or students or student services? Answer me that. What is worth more attention, 100,000 students or more, or 70 student services, which owners, not student services, have become hotel owners throughout Slovenia. And I ask you, how many students have cheaper rooms in these hotels? Answer me that. If they have cheaper, please tell me, then I'll change my mind. As long as I don't hear it, students in these hotels have cheaper rooms, but I'll stay in my opinion. It is more important for me to pay more attention to 100,000 students than 70 student services. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u85	Mr. Benchich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u86	I don't want to play populism, but it's populism. The agency will also have costs, costs with everything similar to what we have now, by making it a country [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] budget covers. [[..]] Let us be so correct and take a closer look at what the costs of the current supply of those on the market are, and do not confuse them with fire and a sword from some past that is not true today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u87	Ma'am mag. Spending, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u88	I would like to await the day when each student will receive a scholarship, counting on the percentage of students to rise. I would like to hear a correctional account from which resources can these funds be provided? And the other one. If you want to destroy student services, do not destroy the student organization and allow the students to be free of charge, or in addition to the students can do some student work. What you're doing right now, you're doing your student work completely uncompetitive, and that's the final effect. Let's name one thing with the right name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u89	Mr. Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleague Petan. We've made it possible by law that the institution can also be an organizer of student work and if it turns out well, he'll "cash" this money and it'll be [[..]] [[Warning signal.]] [[....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] fills the state budget and will not fill the student service budget. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u91	I'm closing the debate. Mr. Bajc. I am putting to the debate Article 36 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members, the three amendments of the Social Democrats Group and the two amendments of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS Group of Members. Who wants a word? Mr. Rob, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thank you very much. In the LDS, we have drafted an amendment to help make Article 48a better, better quality and allowing more unemployed people to participate in this form of active employment policy. The analysis of the structure of the unemployed shows very clearly that the most difficult jobs, the longest ones in the employment institution, are those in these age groups between 30 and 55 years of age, especially in recent times when there has been and there has been additional inflows from bankruptcy and some other business problems. So, we propose that this amendment be duly reconsidered and, of course, adopted, as we propose that the previous amendment in the previous article concerning student work, which we have submitted to the LDS, be examined, as this only original amendment relates to 10% of the concession and, of course, means, in terms of the competitiveness of the student work, far the best proposal. And so we're witnessing here in the coalition play, who's going to be somebody, but both of them are "de facto" holding student work and threatening the future tides of this title, and it's going to be really interesting to see what's going to happen in the future. However, both amendments, of course, need to be said here, are significantly better than the first government proposal, which, of course, was aimed at slowly abolishing student work and limiting student organisations to resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u93	Ma'am mag. Spending, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u94	In the second amendment, we propose exemption from the payment of contributions instead of reimbursement. Thirdly: for persons under 28 years of age, we propose to reduce the time of unemployment to 1 year from 2 and in the fifth amendment, we believe that it would be better if we could combine the various measures of active employment policy. These are things that we think are acceptable, and we are counting on support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u95	I'm closing the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendments, which we will decide today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 12th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.40. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. At the outset, this is a proposal for a law on the implementation of the fundamental development programmes of the Slovenian military in the years 2008 to 2015. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members with first-signed Anton Anderlic requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I give my word to the government representative for further explanation of the bill and at the same time welcome all representatives of the government or the Ministry of Defence. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u96	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Assembly. The proposal for a law on the implementation of the basic Slovenian military development programmes in 2008-2015 is one of the key documents to ensure the further planned development of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the transformation of the defence system as a key subsystem of national security in terms of collective and national defence. The respectable assembly, if in the 1990s we had to establish and develop an extremely fast defence system and, in this context, also the Slovenian army as a classic function of the newly created country, taking into account, in particular, the then security conditions, which were conditioned by wars in the former Yugoslavia area, are now significantly different. This also applies to the search for concepts of transformation of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the second half of the 1990s, which were completed by the decision to move to the professional army with a contractual reserve. In the process of approximation and integration into NATO and the European Union, long-term development guidelines have been developed to take into account both the needs of national defence, collective defence and other obligations undertaken by the State in the defence and security field in the framework of Euro-Atlantic integration, as well as in the region through the law of the specific tasks of the Slovenian army, such as assistance in the event of natural and other disasters. The 2004 targets, which we have coordinated and taken over within the framework of the Alliance, have assumed the country's long-term commitment to providing key military capacities. The objective of the force is taken into account in the resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian military by 2015 adopted by the National Assembly in its previous composition in July 2004. Its implementation is ensured through the medium-term defence programme 2005-2010, which is now being updated for the period 2007 to 2012. These documents set out very concretely and in line with modern security and defence needs, in addition to the objectives and structure of the military organisation, key military capabilities, both in terms of the purpose and types of units, main equipment, human resources, logistics infrastructure and other needs. The planned, comprehensive and within the deadlines set for achieving these capacities has been the fundamental basis and purpose of the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Armed Forces in particular in recent years. These capacities cannot also be changed in terms of potential partial interests or wishes without extensive coordination within the framework of the Alliance and increasingly within the European Union. The achievement and provision of planned capacity in the human resources, technical and functional field was mainly conducted in an appropriate manner, as confirmed by the assessments of the various bodies of the Alliance, or as confirmed at a recent visit to the NATO Military Committee in Slovenia. The implementation of the law on the provision of funds for the implementation of the basic development programmes of the defence forces from 1994 to 2007 has also contributed to the achievement of these capacities. This law allowed the provision of combat systems with which we did not have or were insufficient in view of the security situation at the time. Later, it enabled the gradual modernisation of the modernisation and planned equipping of the Slovenian army, despite some shortcomings and difficulties after its implementation in recent years, it provided a stable financial source for all key defence projects. This law will expire in 2007. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the law provided financing by means of loans. It has enabled a special method of accounting for purchased funds, introduced anti-procurements, an annual reporting system for Parliament and so on. In view of the above, appropriate legal solutions should be provided for the implementation of the Slovenian Armed Forces' core development programmes for the period 2008 to 2015. Instead of extending the current law, we decided on a new law. In doing so, we want to preserve everything that is positive in the implementation of the law so far and correct what has often been critical of the debates in this House. We have also taken into account the solutions known to comparable countries, in particular members of the NATO and the European Union. The essence of all solutions is that key military projects cannot be implemented on the basis of annual budgets or laws governing their implementation, but are multi-annual projects. The proposal for a new law therefore regulates spending on defence investments with annual budgets in the period 2008 to 2015 totalling €710 million. The law therefore does not constitute a legal basis for the provision of funds, but constitutes only a framework on which multi-annual contracts can be concluded and commitments taken. The law states that annual spending can be up to a maximum of €105 million, which is about 20% higher than the annual average. Such a solution is necessary in order to adapt the implementation of the project to actual or different objective conditions. The funds may be spent on projects set out in the long-term programme adopted by the National Assembly and developed in medium-term defence programmes adopted by the Government. When concluding contracts, it must be taken into account that the funds acquired comply with NATO standards and that the agreed anti-procurements are in accordance with the guidelines set by the Government. The government will also set annual plans and priorities, while at the same time reporting annually to the National Assembly on Law Enforcement. We also maintain different inter-ministerial groups that ensure the simultaneous verification and transparency of project implementation. The proposed solutions therefore do not derogate in any way from the prescribed system solutions for budgetary spending, and it is essential that the law regulates the purpose of the investment defence work throughout the 2008-2015 period. It also takes into account the obligation of the State to achieve 2% of gross domestic product when entering full-fledged NATO membership. We don't exceed that height by the law. In explaining the law, we have summarised the main equipment or systems that will be implemented under the long-term and medium-term defence programme. These include, in particular, 120 million euro rocket systems, 20 million euro rockets, transport aircraft, navigation and similar equipment amounting to 140 million euro, the continuation and completion of the Infantry Weapons Project and 30 million euro ammunition and 130 million euro electronic and communication equipment. Let me also mention 8x8 combat vehicles that have raised quite a bit of dust, amounting to 140 million euros. These systems are further developed in the medium-term defence programmes, and around 20% of the funds are planned to be provided under the general budgetary rules. In the final provisions, the law also provides for the completion of the implementation of the law on the provision of funds for the implementation of the basic development programmes, the defence forces of the Republic of Slovenia during the period 1994-2007. The law provides that a final report on the implementation of the whole law shall be submitted to the National Assembly after 2007 and that the payment of loans shall be made in an appropriate manner. In addition to the annual reports, a joint report for the entire period of validity of this Act would present to the National Assembly the implementation of all the projects made possible by that Act. In this way, we would also close the exceptions to the publication of purchases that deviate from systemic solutions. We have, of course, prepared the bill together with the Ministry of Finance and is also coordinated in the context of defence planning processes in the medium and long term. However, due to the complexity and complexity of the projects, we believe that this law should be adopted this year, as the preparation of individual projects lasts for 1 or 2 years before the award of contracts or purchases takes place. Perhaps a lack of acceptance or a greater delay in the adoption of this law would directly jeopardise the continued planned provision of planned military capabilities, which they also account for in the Alliance. These capacities should be provided by the Alliance with other Member States, which will constitute a kind of non-trust in the credibility of our country as full-fledged members of NATO and also of the EU. At best, there may be a significant delay in the realization of capacity, but it will not be possible to make up for it in several years. Ladies and gentlemen, all these responsibilities, and of course the consequences, we were aware of when we, together with the Ministry of Finance, were preparing legal solutions. We have also taken into account the political orientations adopted by the National Security Council in the past year, as well as the preparation of other medium- and long-term development documents. I propose that the proposal for a law at first reading be supported so that the autumn can continue the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Procedural? Please, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u98	Mr President, please read who is empowered by the Government to represent the government at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u99	Yeah. I have before me a record of government representatives: Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister of Defence, Mr Franci Žnidaršič, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence, Lieutenant General Albin Gutman, Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, Mr Miran Bogataj, Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, Acting Director-General of the Ministry of Finance. That's all the list I have in front of me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u100	Please, if you find out if these representatives are here, are there any other representatives instead?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u101	On your question I note that Mr Minister is here, Mr Franci Žnidaršič, the Secretary of State is here, Lieutenant General Albin Gutman is present and Mr Miran Bogotaj is also present. Okay? Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the members of the groups. Please, calm down. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-workers, Honourable Chief of Staff, Mr. Gutman, colleagues and colleagues! At the time of independence, we have set ourselves for the goals we have achieved, namely the inclusion of Slovenia in international relations, including for the sake of an important objective, that is to ensure the security of the nation and the country. We must not forget that our territorial defence has also played a key role in independence, which, with the help of the police, military means and means, has secured independence and, even in the military area, has achieved victory and withdrawal of the federal army. These are all the reasons why we believe that further plans for the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces should be considered in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Today, of course, we can say that we cannot expect any neighbouring country to attack the Republic of Slovenia at this time. We even work together in various military operations, so known as trilaterals. The threat of world peace has changed. It's become asymmetric, one of the biggest threats is certainly crisis areas that escalate in a moment that escalates day by day, yesterday happens to Beirut, the day before yesterday happens to Delhi, and tomorrow we don't know what. But there is also a growing threat of terrorism and some other threats to world peace. Because these crisis hotspots are far from the countries that form NATO, NATO has adopted a border protection strategy far from its home countries, which means that it is a new capacity needed by a modern, modern, equipped army. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that the planned transformation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which has been going on gradually for many years, is necessary. Of course, the question is how. By joining NATO and the European Union, the security and defence of the Republic of Slovenia have become an active part of European and international security and defence. Reforms in the economic, tax and social fields are also important. Slovenia must urgently invest significantly greater resources in development, research and innovation, in new technology. In particular, it is important to provide sufficient resources for the equitable development of all parts of Slovenia to ensure equal development opportunities for all people in Slovenia. In Slovenia we need to agree on priorities, and of course we must not forget the first condition for a successful country and for the progress of the economy, that is stability, security and peace both in our country and in our immediate and distant surroundings. We have established the Slovenian Army and we have entered the North Atlantic Alliance, which is the strongest alliance in the world. This has made the traditional forms of threat to Slovenian territory minor. In the next phase, we need to focus on the best possible rational functioning of the system units in the Euro-Atlantic area so that we can truly create a space of freedom, prosperity and opportunity. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that in planning the future, it is necessary to realise that Slovenia's entry into integration processes, both within the EU and NATO, is an increased pressure on Slovenian public finances, not only with regard to additional membership obligations, but mainly with a view to providing the means to co-finance European budgets both by the end of 2006 and in the next financial period starting in 2007. We are aware that the realisation of all of this requires a certain budgetary restructuring to be carried out as soon as possible until the new financial perspective in the European Union is put in place. The medium-term provision of additional funds to finance investments, through the introduction of a first public sector partnership and a private initiative based on the best experience of other countries through the introduction of a new concession law. Such a restructuring of public finances is not only a necessary obligation due to EU membership, but it must also be a development incentive and therefore a greater part of public expenditure should be directed towards measures that increase the competitiveness of employment and economic growth. In the Slovenian People's Party, we welcome the efforts to ensure gradually and rationally the conditions for the functioning of the Slovenian Armed Forces as a defence force aimed at deterring possible attacks on the country, the conduct of military defence, external aggression or other violent attacks by foreign armed forces. As a special task, in 1993 the National Assembly adopted a document, in a resolution as a fundamental strategic development programme, which provides that the military shall assist in the implementation of the protection of rescue and assistance in natural and other disasters and shall implement international obligations related to international treaties. The general long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces sets out a medium-term defence programme. The NATO alliances have committed ourselves to achieving certain objectives of our army's capacity over a certain period of time, namely that Slovenia will be committed to defending 2% of gross social product between 2008 and 2015. We also pledged to have a second middle battalion group by 2011 and by 2012. It is important for us in the Slovenian People's Party that the implementation of the law on the provision of funds for the implementation of the basic development programmes, the implementation of the system to obtain supplies, has also had a positive impact on the export possibilities of the other domestic economy. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] However, all those supplies and supplies in the framework of the implementation carried out by domestic producers, were adequate funds or equipment for the purposes of the Slovenian Army. [[...]] Given the changed tasks of the modern armed forces, sources of threat and security, it is also right that the organisation and structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces are being adapted. An integral part of changing the organisation and structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces is also the development of transferable forces and the related reorganisation of Slovenian Armed Forces armoured units, which has been going on gradually since 2000 and not since today. It seems important to us that Slovenia, by adopting the first general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces, has already set itself a priority in 2000 to equip its forces for rapid intervention. On this basis, the basic development programmes already provide equipment with safe wheeled armoured vehicles Valuk and Hummer. The main purpose of the 8x8 armored combat vehicle, according to our experts, is to protect soldiers from transport on the battlefield and fire support in the operation of the departments. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that we need to provide the best equipment, but it is important and good to have as much as possible as possible the best possible. These are the objectives that the Ministry of Defence must also pursue all the time. The resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, adopted in the 2004 National Assembly, already sets out the main capacities within the framework of the Alliance as an integral part of the long-term development of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2015. Time limits are set for reaching operational capacity for the period 2005-2010. The Ministry is now renewing this programme, as it is necessary to supplement this programme every two years. With regard to this medium-term programme for the period 2005-2010, the Defence Committee was also briefed last September, 8 September. The main equipment programme has been recorded under order number 4: combat vehicles, 8x8 armored equipment. However, it is also true that the debate was held at that time, I think, between five and ten minutes, so obviously some have not read what this document contains, which even then in the medium-term programme provides for the purchase of 135 vehicles 8x8. In the objectives of the Alliance, in 2006 the complexity of the dedicated military groups of the battalion composition from the original last year increased to medium, which will also affect the number and internal structure of the armoured wheeled vehicles. The process of coordinating and modifying the objectives of the Alliance's forces 2006 will be completed in 2006 and in line with the NATO defence planning process divided into the 2007-2011 medium-term defence programme, which I believe is already taken into account in this document, which we are considering today. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the direction that resources to achieve key military capabilities must be shown as an integral part of the budget, and we also understand the need to regulate or provide for the possibility of concluding multi-annual agreements on the provision of extreme capacity. So it's essentially about this marriage that, you know, we could ask ourselves, the defense toll. The law regulates spending of €710 million and €170 billion, calculated at the average euro rate of 1.1.2006. I hope that Slovenia can do this. We support the direction that the government will adopt an annual implementation plan for the basic development programmes, which will report at least once a year to the Slovenian National Assembly on the implementation of this programme or law. While the law allows multi-annual contracts to be concluded in the provision of armed systems and military equipment, commitments are also made for a longer period than the annual budget of the Republic of Slovenia. It is necessary to ensure that the commitments made for each year do not go beyond the law of certain annual restrictions and that the capacity of the domestic economy is taken into account as a priority when purchasing. In order to carry out individual projects in a cross-cutting, rational manner and in accordance with the rules that an inter-ministerial working group of the Ministry of Defence is appointed, it gives prior consent to the conclusion of each contract individually. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the implementation of the basic Slovenian military development programmes in 2008-2015 will also constitute an important part of the economic, technological, educational and general development of the country, which will increase the competitiveness of the domestic economy and its relationship with other economies, and therefore we support and support the first reading of the law as a suitable basis for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Members, Members, Mr Minister and other representatives of the Ministry of Defence. In the DeSUS Parliamentary Group, we will support the law on the implementation of the basic development programmes in the Slovenian Armed Forces in 2008 and 2015 because we believe that the law drafted by the RS Government is good. Development programmes must be geared so as to be able to supply the necessary equipment in such a way as to ensure transparency and transparency in such a way that there is no doubt of any impact on the environment, on the social situation of the individual, on the conduct of public administration or on the liability of administrative burdens. In the Group of Members, we propose that all comments, particularly civil society, should be taken into account when adopting this legislation. It is necessary to have in mind and include 2% of GDP in these development programmes, so that annual expenditure cannot exceed €105 million. In fact, we need to adjust the law by enabling the RS Ministry of Defence to enter into contracts for longer periods. In the annual budget, however, the realisation of purchases that are intended to be financed from TRP3 must be clearly visible. We think it is necessary to understand those offers that will be cheaper, more rational and more cost-effective, less harmful to our Slovenian development. We suggest, however, that we also need to look at the higher employment level of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, the quality of materials, the length of transport routes, but not at the expense of the financial minus. At times of choice, decisions should always be made with good equipment, immediate purchases and long-term loans. All equipment and infrastructure must be acceptable to NATO and to the principles of the European Union. The law should take into account changes in the security situation which could affect the increased obligations of the State under the collective defence system. We believe that in these development programmes more funding is needed for armoured vehicles, transport aircraft and helicopters, including missile systems, engineering equipment, infantry weapons, electronic and communication equipment, ammunition and mine explosives. We are in favour of such decisions, which should be entered into into indemnity at the time of payment of the annuity with the corresponding interest, regardless of the time and equipment of the Slovenian Army. Only such a decision regarding equipment can provide, under the law, the included provisions of the arms equipment and thus also meet the standards of the defence system in NATO, this is the way to a simple solution, to a quick purchase and to a gradual repayment. The Treaties must also contain anti-supply arms of goods and services outside the borders and also in the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that a new time has brought the transformation of the Slovenian Army, so it is a matter of greater professional safety and at the same time through reorganisation into a small, efficient and, above all, a professional army. We therefore need to adopt these core development programmes and the overall long-term system of the development and equipment programme, as well as the medium-term defence programme. Only such a law will be able to provide a gradual, multi-annual training of individual key systems. The programmes should provide for the possibility of a multi-annual conclusion of contracts and we must maintain a system of supply and good experience of the defence forces of the Republic of Slovenia. Since this law regulates the regulation of the most important basic development programmes of the Slovenian Armed Forces in 2008-2015 and the programme for the development of equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces in medium-term defence programmes, it is useful to support the Government's efforts in the proposed amendment. In the DeSUS Group of Members, we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Hrvat has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! The basic objective of the law on the implementation of the Slovenian Armed Forces' basic development programmes in 2008-2015 is to establish the military capacity necessary to participate in the collective defence system or to carry out other tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The bill provides for the possibility of a gradual, multi-annual establishment of key systems so that the acquisition of arms systems and military equipment is coordinated. On the basis of the legal provisions, it is ensured that multi-annual contracts can be concluded irrespective of the budgets or the laws for their implementation. The solutions that have proven effective in the implementation of the basic defence force development programmes in the years 1994 to 2007 have also been preserved in the implementation of the Slovenian Armed Forces' core development programmes in the period 2008 to 2015. The adoption of a new law in this area is necessary because the existing law on the provision of funds for the implementation of development programmes expires in 2007 and after this year there is no longer the provision of demanding combat systems, which clearly have been in place for several years. This law must ensure that key capacities are truly ensured, and this cannot be achieved only within the framework of each annual budget, which is generally adopted for two or one years. The Republic of Slovenia has also taken over as an integral part of its obligation to full membership in NATO to ensure the planned growth of defence expenditure, which must in particular ensure the development, modernisation and modernisation of military equipment. The country's defence expenditure shall be demonstrated in the manner applicable to NATO. The implementation of this law, which ensures the development, modernisation and modernisation of the military, will make it easier to provide defence expenditure on a planned scale and in accordance with agreed dynamics. By providing key military capabilities, the law will ensure that the new military structure will continue to be established in the period 2008-2015. This will increase the State's ability to assume more demanding tasks in the implementation of international obligations, particularly within the framework of the Alliance. This will also ensure a higher level of national security, as the country will be able to assume a proportionate part of its responsibility within the framework of collective defence. There will also be significant improvements in the control of airspace and aquatoria. The ability of the military to participate in peace-supporting operations will also be enhanced. The implementation of the Slovenian Armed Forces' core development programmes in 2008-2015 will be an important part of the economic, technological, educational and general development of the country, which will also increase the competitiveness and connectivity of the domestic economy with other economies. The implementation of the basic development programmes so far has significantly increased the readiness of the Slovenian military to implement certain tasks by law. We have established a modern and effective and highly professional army capable of acting alone, and at the same time plays an increasingly important role in ensuring world peace. For all these reasons, we will support the Slovenian Democratic Party's Basic Development Programmes Act 2008-2015.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I think Mr Anton Anderlich has LDS on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u108	Your Honor! Don't make any mistake. In the Liberal Democracy we support the implementation of the general long-term Slovenian Army equipment programme, which was adopted in 2004. But today we are dealing with something else. We are not only dealing with the purpose of providing money to equip the Slovenian army, but we are dealing with a discussion on how we will provide funds in the future, so how we will manage public finances in general. And today, we are dealing with financial law for real, not with a law that the soldiers and those who distribute the money would advocate. It is amazing and strange that none of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance have been said so modestly in the introduction, and the representative of the government is only V.D. and the Director-General of the Ministry of Finance is not yet present. It is therefore a matter of spending 170 billion Slovenian tolars over the next seven years. And if there is anything, then we must listen and repeat what he said in the second paragraph for the Minister of Finance on 30 November 2004 in these rooms. Point 2. - the development of the State accounting system and national financial statistics, in accordance with the recommendations of the competent international institutions. In the mid-1990s, in the most developed countries, when implementing public management reforms, it became clear that accounting on the basis of the event also in the state sector is the most important tool for assessing and assessing achievements and its effects or consequences. Since then, government accounting reforms have been under way in the Anglo-Saxon, Scandinavian and Central European countries, shifting from the accounting base of cash flows to the accounting basis of the event. And then, I'm not going to read it all, but it's not a pre-election promise, it's about the tasks that were ahead of the country. In this mandate, we intend to implement the development of national accounting and the state accounting information system, in accordance with international accounting standards for the public sector issued by the competent international institution; and on this basis, we have established a comprehensive system of accounting for public and public spending, state and public sector assets on the basis of the occurrence of obligations and the occurrence of an event. In this challenging project, it will follow the experiences of the most successful countries, the professional assistance of domestic and, where appropriate, international organisations and the recommendations of the EU Institute, which have recently found that most of the new members in the development of state accounting are far behind in the development of private sector accounting. So why don't you follow these instructions or these programme backgrounds of Mr Bayuk, this would make sense to discuss with him, it would make sense to discuss with the Prime Minister, so this is something that is already, that is, a discussion about a law that is probably at some point in time, and I agree, it was needed, it was useful when we adopted the first law on basic development programmes when they were so-called defence, school, health and, I don't know which tolars were all. We are now in a period of time when we must follow the paths taken by other developed countries and recommend that we all follow this path. Therefore, in the context of the development programmes adopted by the government departments for five years and supplemented by them, the annual budget will show what is what they will spend for a certain purpose and when it comes to realisation, this event will also be recorded. This could not be the case in the 2005 report, where this report simply says: "In view of the common, the funds laid down by law for the period 2005 to 2007 have been used up so much, so many contracts have been signed and so many will be signed." This is for this way of reviewing public finances and controls, which is an absolute priority of the National Assembly and how we will provide resources in the future for both defence, health, education and all other things, we should discuss in terms of commitment and event creation. Not in the way that it is now, I stress once again, it was right for the two present 10, 12 years ago to give an opportunity, to ensure that the funds will be provided, and then to purchase, as they have, contracts such as they have, and anyway, there was no control, whether an event occurred in one year or not. Mr Pajk, you know, because we have considered the report on the Committee if we take this report into consideration for 2005 and you cannot by no means determine which obligation was adopted in 2005, which event was created and what was paid, you cannot determine from this. That is why I am surprised, and I will also ask these questions publicly to the Prime Minister and especially to the Finance Minister, why these recommendations, after all, in Slovenia, were organised in the late 1990s, in the early years of this millennium workshops where representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Defence, were also supposed to be used in the future in Slovenia. I don't talk or say that everything was wrong or all right, I don't care. I argue that there was a period when the Tolars were needed and certainly a Slovenian specialty that produced good fruit, but now with all the commitments we are making at the time of entry into the EU we are going through, or we will have to move on to a different way of providing and dealing with these costs. Even if we do, or because you are likely to adopt this law, you do not want to engage in this discussion. I've already started this discussion, and the matter is focused on if the soldiers know how to back it up properly by using weapons, otherwise we'll be threatened, otherwise we won't fulfill our obligations to NATO, otherwise we won't, I don't know what. That's not what this is about. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opening remarks, we adopted this programme in 2004, including the current opposition Member, Mr Bayuk, and we are aware of the need to do so. In what way will this be transparent? If you look at all the countries, you can read in the law the explanation of how they have this arranged, all the countries go on that principle. Nowhere else, no country has the way it simply prolongs it in Slovenia with an explanation, since it has been so far and it has happened. No, no, no. Development goes on, thank God it goes on, and I believe that we will follow it in Slovenia too, so I also believe that when this law is second-reading, because today, despite the realization that defence preparations and the provision of a stable system depend on the provision of funds, we do not deny it, but we want it to be done transparently, to do so in the way that this practice applies elsewhere. And it is interesting that this is one of the better laws concerning the explanation of comparisons in the part where it cites arguments or shows how they are regulated in other countries. This is one of the rare laws that is good in this part, but of course it goes in a completely different direction. Furthermore, no comparative experience in this introduction is used in domestic law. Are we ready to meet Mr. Bayuk? We are and will have a debate on when and how we will implement the reform, this is a reform, if you want, of the financial sector, of the reform of public finances, which was announced on 30 November 2004 in these premises. We're ready to do this. But we're not ready to talk in a way, you're against the state being armed to have equipment, you're against being qualified and compatible with those participating in NATO operations, etc. These discussions are not necessary for Slovenian needs, but this discussion is necessary and here is an opportunity to start discussing the reforms that have been announced. I believe that many of you will try to prove that this is some sort of framework issue, that we will control it from the outside, that we will, I don't know what, but it is true, that every year we should go to the budget or two-year budgets and, as we are doing development programmes, I repeat, for other areas, it would make sense and it would be right to work on it. No, I am against such a law because it provides fixed funds from 2008 to 2015, but does not take into account the real frameworks and real conditions in Slovenia in 2009, 2010, 2011 etc. And, of course, only by assuming commitments under this programme and by including this in the current application will it be clear what was needed at the time, what was ordered and what was not. It can't then come to an explanation, it's a classic, old way, I admit, in 2005 it was realized at 83 million and so many million, it's still not realized so much or so; why and they don't say so, but now it's going as with all the other budget users. This will go back to the budget whether this budget spending will be lower and we will be on the basis of your programme in the future and, I don't know, in what year do you even need it, or how else this conversation must run out. None of the budget users have the same funding until 2015. This has nothing to do with that thesis of up to 2%. The social gross product will move as it will, today are forecasts, today are realizations as they are, and I hope that it will go better every year. I don't know if we're gonna need anything else. If you planned the same people years ago that you needed to restore the tanks before this program expired, you found that they were going into conservation and that we were going in a different way to equip and provide different types of vehicles. Okay, but that doesn't mean that this shouldn't be transparent; and it should be transparent why such an event, etc. Unfortunately, we cannot support such a means of providing funds because it is precisely by Mr Bayuk's arguments that even if such a structure were not the position or opposition, we will move on to a different way of financing or managing financial statements and so on. So I expect another explanation from the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, because I say this is not a law based on the Ministry of Defence, but on the contrary, there must be at least what is coordinated and some questions we would like to be answered here.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Aurelio Juri has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The proposed law, as in the previous one, will expire in 2007 and will allow for the procurement of 135 armoured men, in fact one more, but we will not have a hairbrush, otherwise represents a logical continuation before the years of the adopted defence planning process, but also an extraordinary funding mechanism for almost all military equipment programmes. This means, as we are told and warned by the profession, a way of financing that is more exceptional in other similar arrangements than a rule, individual large investments that are precisely dedicated, completely transparent and more subject to easier and better control. The problem with our TRPs, as we call them, is that they are not tied to a single large investment, but to the purchase of more than 20 different systems. In the National Assembly, we only confirm the law, the implementation, and this was well spoken of by our colleague Anderlich, or the financing of these programmes, and individual purchases or priorities are determined and implemented by the government itself through the annual plans. This means that since the adoption of the resolution on the long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces, Parliament has no longer had a real opportunity to oversee this funding. In order to at least slightly improve the situation and allow more detailed information to Members and Members about purchases, we propose today that Article 7 of the Law be supplemented, but the Government will do so, or we will do so with amendments, by stipulating that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should once a year, as proposed, report to the National Assembly on the implementation of the law, but also through individual purchase programmes. Otherwise, only the text of the law is written quite superficially, and this surface has been pointed out by the profession or people who are familiar with defence. First, if you allow me a small but important comment of a more political-moral nature on the first paragraph of the introduction, or an assessment of the conditions and reasons for the adoption of the law. See, colleagues and colleagues, a key role in the independence of the country, as far as armed resistance is concerned, has been played not only by territorial defence with the assistance of the police, but both together and equally. So we will not count the arrows and weigh the role in individual battlefields or areas, by calling on the Minister and the constituents of this text to record it again in this part, in recognition of both structures or all their members. With regard to individual formulations, the indications in explanation, we also get the following comments: that a number of formulations are wrong, that, for example, the term anti-lock support is not known to defenders, that we speak and write about NATO standards and not the standards of the NATO defence system, and about Euro-Atlantic and not North Atlantic integrations, that engineering is that light rocket systems are transferable short-range rocket systems, etc. Of course, I don't know much about these things, but when advocates point to this, it's only right to say that and that the writers of this explanation are a little more correct in the new edition. And the content of the following. The Ministry plans to purchase 170 billion tolls in this new eight-year investment cycle or because there will be no more tolars, €710 million. So almost three times as much as they'll stand if they're not clipped by the naked armored men they're talking about these days, or two times as many armored men with all their weapons and equipment. The law does not reveal exactly what will be bought, but the Minister tells us, we have heard this in the introduction, so that among the larger purchases of missile systems, two transport aircraft are capable of transporting armoured personnel on missions abroad and another battleship to join Ankaran. On the purchase or hire of supersonic interceptors to cancel or replace the existing national sky protection regime provided by NATO, we want to trust the Minister's assurances that, despite such wishes and ideas within certain ministerial and military circles, the change in the short term does not come into effect and we hope that the debt will not. If we have already joined the collective security system, let us take advantage of what it offers and does no harm to anyone. The summits of the Alliance themselves assure us that the existing solution is the cheapest and optimal solution for us. But also the purchase of rocket systems over - we have heard - 100 million euros, two transparent aircraft to be used for the accompanying infrastructure and equipment of more than 140 million euros, as well as an additional battleship to which we expect to deduct several fat millions of euros to be counted, is estimated not to be fully necessary and justified by the relatively stable and favourable security situation at home, in the immediate and wider surroundings, with changing sources of threats, which are no longer unregulated relations with neighbours, but environmental, in particular climate change and, of course, terrorism, with other more important social needs in areas already chronically supported, and not least with the efforts and responsibilities of all of us for smaller public consumption. That these aircraft are not necessary, personally, if I am allowed, I will not object to the purchase of one smaller one that will replace the existing one, as far as I know, already served and dangerously, and serve for the transport of persons and easier equipment on Balkan and other nearby or non-excessively remote missions, so that the purchase of these two aircraft is not necessary, they speak such capacities of existing transport logistics, NATO, including in the neighbourhood, the concept of collective security itself, which says that it is not necessary for each member to be fully or completely self-sufficient, and exceptional costs, if we consider the purchase of the aircraft itself, maintenance and activation of this system. Let's just say it would take two years for a mission to the Congo to deliver only a handful of soldiers with one armor. Let's think about a mission with a more numerical formation. Nor will the new warship be necessary, even though I understand the wishes of my uniformed fellow Ukrainians in Ankara, if you are able to return to the idea of the coast guard, which was created and was, as it seems, also on a good path of realization until the arrival of this government, so that all the activities that the state is responsible for at sea - note that it is an area surrounded by 46 kilometres of coastline at full tide - so that all activities are rationalized, cheaper, simplified and functionally improved. The sea calls for different investments, in particular in pollution control and protection systems, also in the worst weather conditions, research and better use of its data, and not in the new combat capacity. In short, we are not threatened, as I said, by more and more neighbors, but by more and more heat, drought, fires, storms, hail, floods, reptiles, and more, something that will be difficult to counter with armoured aircraft, transport aircraft, battleships and missile systems. Therefore, the call for reflection, the distinguished gentlemen of the Government and the Ministry. And once again, maybe 63 billion for the purchase of armor and additional billions for their upgrades before you make a contract with the selected bidder. So, the law, which foresees spending 710 million euros in eight years on defence investments, which, according to our assessment, are not necessarily necessary or, for the sake of NATO membership, inevitable, will not be supported. However, if such a coalition is already decided, we demand and expect, on behalf of the general public, or taxpayers and taxpayers, a responsible and contrary justification for each individual, at least greater investment before it takes place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Drago Koren has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I warmly welcome the Chief of Staff, the Secretary of State and Mr Bogotaj and, of course, the Members and Members of the National Assembly. We've recently had quite a dignified celebration of Statehood Day. At this year's celebration of the 15-year anniversary of our country, we were served with plenty of archive material from that period. So we could also think of how the Slovenian Army began to form at that time. The only weapon we had back then was the weapons of those district territories that were hoping to keep and hide the weapons they were supposed to hand over to the JLA military. And if we look at the Slovenian Army today, we can only be surprised. During the 15 years we have created from nothing a little, but modern, capable, professional and already well-equipped Slovenian Army. We also joined NATO and thus ensured collective defence. We have before us a proposal for a law on the implementation of the Slovenian Armed Forces' core development programmes in 2008-2015. The law is very short, it has only 11 articles, the articles are simple and clear, but the weight of this bill is only EUR 710 million, which is set out in Article 2. On 13 July 2004, a resolution was adopted in this Chamber on a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces. At that time, Dr Anton Grizold said that the new general long-term programme for the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces concluded a multi-annual period of planned, comprehensive and comprehensive reforms in the defence system and especially in the transformation of the Slovenian Army. The admission to full membership in NATO is a milestone where we need to fully assess the implementation of reforms so far, the state achieved and determine future developments. The resolution extended the main tasks of the military within three pillars: countering aggression, military contribution to international peace and support for the protection of rescue and assistance and other state bodies. The national interests of the State and the tasks arising from our full membership in the European Union and NATO are the starting points for carrying out these military tasks. And the proposed law regulates the implementation of the most important fundamental development programmes of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the years 2008 to 2015, which are set out in this resolution. Development objectives, the structure of forces, the procurement programme for equipment and infrastructure and the defined area of research and development are defined. In the case of force development, the purpose, scope and dynamics of the establishment of the envisaged capacity are set out, in line with this, a programme of equipment and infrastructure acquisitions is divided. The programme already sets out the main equipment of the slaughtering or armed systems. According to their number, a priority order has also been set. In accordance with the defence planning system used in NATO, the long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces also takes into account the objectives of the NATO liaison forces, which were assumed as an obligation by the Republic of Slovenia at the time of entry into NATO. In 2004, 44 objectives were thus adopted, which are fully taken into account in the overall long-term programme. In order to implement the basic development programmes, the law governs spending up to, I think, Mr. Anderlič [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] It says it's up to €110 million. [[..]] It is said that the value is not sealed, but only the upper limit is set. Annual spending is set at a maximum of €105 million. In doing so, we must not forget that, in addition to the funds spent under this law, other means of acquiring equipment and arming the army of annual budgets will also be provided in the budget of the Ministry of Defence. This shall take into account the projection of defence expenditure as an integral part of the commitments undertaken by the State at the time of entry into NATO. Members and Members of the New Slovenia welcome the provisions of Article 4 which provides that counter-supply of goods or services produced in the Republic of Slovenia will also be agreed when concluding contracts for the implementation of the basic development programmes. Let the Slovenian economy also have one if weapons and equipment for the Slovenian Army are to be purchased abroad. We hope and want to be as successful as possible in the preparation of the anti-dumping measures. In this area, I think that Slovenia already has some good experience. We are also pleased that the Ministry of Defence must provide a separate record of the weapons systems, military equipment and other assets and infrastructure financed by funds under this law. This will allow for transparency in the implementation of the law, as well as effective control over the use of certain funds by this law. Let me finish and let you know that in Novi Slovenija we believe that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Stane Pike has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Greetings to all present. Of course, we are talking about the fundamental development of the Slovenian Army document. If we ask ourselves why this document is needed, we get more reasons why we are now accepting it, we are proposing a new document in the period from 2008 to 2015. I think the first main reason is, of course, as we have already heard, that the old document runs out of date, if I may put it this way, the second year, so it is absolutely necessary to accept, as we have already heard, the new one. If I limit myself to this time from 1994 to the second year, when it expires, we can see that at this time in Slovenia there are many things - only at this time, I will say - that have changed. I will mention only the most influential things, this is entry into the European Community, then we must not ignore the professionalization of the army from the recruitment system into the professional system of the military, which aims to have a small army, but that army is very effective, professional in all areas and also capable of defending the Slovenian territory, which will also be compatible with NATO. And of course, what has already been mentioned is that it is able to intervene in peacekeeping missions, to spread peace around the world, especially in our surroundings, for a simple reason: if we want peace at home, we must also afford it to others. There are other reasons why this document is badly needed. The Slovenian Armed Forces have now changed significantly and will continue to change during this period, so this document needs to be incorporated into this document and must take into account the changes in personnel. The new are also multi-annual contracts that can have a beneficial impact on the Slovenian economy, anti- dowry, development of the Slovenian economy in terms of technological and economic development. It should also be borne in mind that Slovenia has committed itself to giving 2% of its gross domestic product by entering NATO. It's a commitment. And if they're going to offer us collective defense on one side, we have to return something for it. Therefore, all pacifists must be told that something must be given to defend themselves. And if this defense is collective, it's even more valuable. If we also ask ourselves why such planning is necessary - simply so that the army can develop boldly into the future. What does this development have to do with anything? I can also tell my colleague Anderlich, who says he wants to hear the consent of Minister Bajuk [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Why not? [[Back-up advertising.]] You can do it, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u115	Well, let's keep talking.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u116	Please, don't bother me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u117	Please don't hang up. Let me finish, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u118	I can say that Mr Bajuk is certainly familiar with this document. Why? Because he's certified in government and he's part of the government. And if this document came to our house, it is clear that Mr Bajuk is familiar with this document and most likely agrees with it. Because we said earlier that the numbers are fixed - I think it might even be right that they are fixed. Lately, we have a very large economic growth in Slovenia that we did not expect in this period, which is over 5%, and if this goes on, these numbers will even need to be corrected up. There is another solution, however, if something breaks by accident, this law can also be changed with a novel and can be corrected if something is very wrong. Of course, I support this law, I mean this law and programme, because it goes in the direction of development and stable defence in our country, and also with the aim of intervention in crisis areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Anderlich, I cannot give you a replica, because it was about your, yes, your implementation when you presented the position of the Group of Members, but you are about to be in the general debate. Do you have a procedure? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u120	It is true, I know that I cannot have a replica, but I also know that you should warn the speaker that he cannot dispute the views of the parliamentary group in the introduction. It's one thing to quote me - just with what he disagrees with - because I haven't discussed in this part as a Member and read the Rules of Procedure and you'll see that it's not [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u121	You're right, Mr. Anderlich, it wasn't right. Thank you very much. Please, what kind of question? Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u122	Yes, of course, I must say in my defence that Mr Anderlich has also spoken my name in front of a pay phone and I also have the right to defend myself in some way. I think he broke the rules of procedure, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I hope that this time there will be no breach of the rules of procedure. The requirements of the military are far greater than the actual capacity of individual countries, and probably Slovenia will not be any exception. The military just wants to provide certain funds for its equipment, for its development, and of course we in this House, at least for the moment, are also deciding by adopting this law. The security of the state costs, this is a fact and I do not deny that the means for equipping the Slovenian Army and for the activity of the Slovenian Army are necessary - this time we only speak for equipment. However, the scope is certainly debated, the extent of the funds can, of course, be discussed and we can decide about it, and we can do otherwise than is proposed. However, the mode of spending is even more controversial and it is right to discuss it, even if we take into account the level of resources allocated to this proposal for a law on the implementation of the Slovenian Armed Forces' core development programmes between 2008 and 2015. This amount of funds is indeed such that it can also be turned away from it. The law is a logical consequence of defence planning from the past. However, it would probably make sense that the law is bound by individual larger investments and provides the means for their implementation, irrespective of the other resources provided for in the annual budget planning. I didn't exactly hear you, Mr. Bajc, asking if you're answering. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Okay, then I suggest you calm down. [[..]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u125	I'd like to ask you to be serious!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u126	By this law, we define our relationship to more than 20 different weapons and equipment. What and when in this time period, i.e. the procurement priority, will be determined by the government. In doing so, it is important that, as has already been said today, the legislative branch of the authorities would ensure that individual purchase programmes are implemented, so I am also joining or proposing that the proposer complete the existing Article 7 in the preparation of the second reading law with a text that will ensure that the government reports once a year to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of this Act under individual purchase programmes. The introduction of this bill, chapter 1 and sub-chapter Assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, states: "This is a key role", namely, in independence, "the territorial defence, which, with the assistance of the police with military means and means of securing independence and also in the military area, achieved victory and withdrawal of the Federal Army." There's no denying it. It is important that you have included the police here, in this introduction, for quite some time now, in these months of celebration this has not been noticed several times. But I would also like to point out that when we compare the equipment both within this introduction of the law, we can say that already on Slovenian roads we can see a significant difference between the equipment or the car park of the Slovenian Army and the Slovenian police. Unfortunately, this is the case, and as I think about the adoption of this legislation, I am increasingly convinced that it might also be useful to consider a proposal for a law implementing the basic development programmes of the Slovenian police.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u127	Mr. Joseph Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u128	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In my introduction, when I represented the position of the Slovenian People's Party, I tried to summarise the provisions and purposes of this Act as much as possible. I can't help but over the fact that how would we probably have been bragging and saying oh and oh, how right it is that we have a law on basic development programs, that we can buy a falcon with which we can drive wounded from individuals, I'll say, places of conflict and so on. The second thing I would like to say is, I also appreciate in the material or in this law that we are actually following what we have committed a long time ago, that our obligations to the military will be 2% of the gross social product. And if we look at the tables that are an annex - tables in explaining this law - we can see that the funds earmarked for TRP from 2008 to 2015 are the same amount and total 170 billion. However, that variable part that some colleagues discussed - how do we know what gross social product will be and what these funds will be allocated to - is intended for the other financial needs of the Ministry of Defence. If I may even think about it, yes, in what way do we imagine that it would be left to the annual budget to decide whether to purchase equipment for the purposes of either, as my predecessor said, the police or the military. Order one, say, plane or one transport vehicle, today you go to the store, you bring money and tomorrow you take it, we see what's going on, let's say, even if we're talking specifically, about these 8x8. For this reason, I also personally assess that it is necessary to have one such law which, in the long term, can allow the Slovenian Army to draw up plans, following this basic objective, what is needed, for example, to be able to fulfil all the obligations we have undertaken in the past period, and to fulfil them. For this reason, I personally assess - and I have warned in the presentation of the Slovenian People's Party's position that it is necessary for the national assembly to be, and this is also said in the law, to allow it to monitor the implementation of this law and to confirm it, as provided for in the bill itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u129	Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all present in the hall! Perhaps it would suggest remembering 15 years ago when the aggressor approached our places and when he was already taking decisive action in the face of the city when we blocked him, repeatedly with improvised means - and successfully defended himself. At that time, there was a need for a systematic defence system, which then came true with the entry into NATO. To make some more haste in the past. In the past, we have paid a costly and inefficient army to the common country, which in some areas had surpluses of certain combat assets and unrelated to others, went to very futuristic, expensive projects, the construction of a new combat aircraft, and it is not surprising that the defence system of the former country has failed on such plans. How effective it proved to be in the coming years when the so-called Yugoslav Army was able to commit genocide only or its successors. One of them happened, we just celebrated our anniversary two days ago, in Srebrenica. But this does not touch today’s darkness. I would like to stress that I am going back, and I would like to point out that today's defence system is based on an effective system managed by a trained professional army, so it was also a very smart step to move from the recruitment system to the professional army. Because every day you are more sophisticated and highly knowledge-based defence systems require only professionals. So, we've decided on the quality and the quality has its price. That is why I very much like that there is a rapid mobile battalion in the plans, and then that the day is also a focus on the anti-biological, anti-chemical and anti-radioactive system. Because it is in these areas that the global danger of terrorist organisations is increasing. The emphasis on air defence is also very welcome. And that is why I support the bill, because I believe that a country that has a poor defence system is the greatest challenge to world peace. We can see that from history. Some 200 years ago, the Japanese state was poorly organised and was gradually dismembered and attached to its territory by three neighbouring countries. Even with various peace declarations, world peace is not preserved. The World Peace Guarantee is so-called an effective defence doctrine, i.e. such a doctrine created by rapid intervention units or counter-terrorism units and since all these segments are covered by these programmes, I will gladly support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Ziherl, you must have missed it when you said we were celebrating the anniversary of the events in Srebrenica, we remembered the events. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u132	I apologize to gentlemen, occasionally two or mostly two, and occasionally three sitting here, but it is not right for you to defend this law alone. And above all, because there is no talk about what you will get, because this programme has already been adopted in one way or another or will be supplemented and so on through another process, but it is about how we will provide the means and how we will ensure the transparency of the use of these funds and ultimately control. That's what this is about. And I really regret this understatement. The minister took so long to tell the introduction, and he left too. No one from the Ministry of Finance is here. Before any kind of rounding up this debate in a way of saying, this is what is best for this country in the next eight years, when it comes to such a large resource, what is best for us to do this discussion with those who are "the custodians of this budget", under quotations; that is, in particular the finance ministry, treasurers and so on. No! No! This is underestimating, if, because the voting machine will do, we'll secure some money and so on. This is all the more so if we take into account the 2005 report. Look how impenetrable everything is! And what terminology! There is no report on consumption for purchases after this and this segment, but the report is only: the permitted total consumption was such, and now let us waste it. It's been realized a little bit lower, but there's no reason why it's lower in which segment you couldn't spend it because it's not consumption, it's about supplies, it's about equipment, it's about I don't know what, but it's something that's bought for some needs. Spending is, if we so brutally understand this spending that once you get something, you've wasted money, but I don't think it's about lunches, travel costs, for some other things. And just when we gave it that it was necessary to report to the National Assembly annually, it was intended to eliminate the uptake - and this was adopted in the previous mandate - until then poor reporting, poor transparency and awareness of the need for us to change the way in which such matters were financed in Slovenia. I had previously demonstrated how all other countries had done so and how all other countries had done so. Thank you for helping me out by making a good introduction by telling me how they do it in other countries. But, unfortunately, I regret that you haven't come close to any of the models these other countries have. Why not? I don't know. You also note in the introduction that the EU and NATO Member States are such that in the future they will be subject to a system of more transparent pre-term decision-making based on the long-term programmes that we have - budgeting and on the basis of multi-year programmes. The maximum planning period is 6 years, after what can be seen here in other countries. But also in that country, the reference to "funds are provided in the budget every year or in the way budgets are adopted". I have also discussed this table with some members of the coalition before, and they do not understand this table. And when we talk about it, and because you like to refer to the United States of America, and now this visit that was also popular. There, too, they need the approval of any matter that is greater than that which is, if it is exceptional, etc. Not at all, but they need budget approval. There is no permanent source. Because, of course, in this program of yours - it is interesting that this programme has a fixed 2% rate of consumption of the social gross product for these purposes. Yeah, I said, I don't mind being guaranteed up to 2%, what we wrote in the strategy or in the resolution. But, for God's sake, two days ago, the Commissioner brought the chief of the Czech army to Parliament - some other Members were present there - what did this commander say? We have provided 2.2% of the social gross product over the past period, now we go to 1.7%. And for 2005, they already had 1.8%, and before that, they had much more. Look, even in the United States of America, regardless of their specific role, so that I don't say the unknown need to arm and provide money for military intervention, the percentage is declining, so it's all the more important that we have a discussion with the financiers about how these things will be ensured in the future. When you talk about counter-winning, I'm very happy, but in the report, for example, 2005 it says that supplies, anti-procurements ranging from 30% to 40%. So, the financial statements are exact, you know how much commitment, how much through the commitment, how much they were realized and how much they were not realized. If there's a report, we know how long it's been. And, of course, we cannot, in such a way that it is so simply excluded from the system, the general system of public finances, precisely this area. For this reason, I expect that in future discussions, however, there will be an opportunity to discuss, if you want, the macroeconomic items of this country or the reasons for adopting such a law or possible objections or the opportunity to go in a different way to finance this spending. And don't take it that I'm arguing with you! If I thank you that in these 10, 15 years you have done a great deal for equipped, accelerated, quality equipment of the Slovenian Army and have achieved some level of envy compatible with NATO so far that we have no problem with this - contrary. Even when there was a representative of the political committee and the defence committee of NATO - there is an interview here, because otherwise I had no opportunity to check it - when he says, say both representatives, lastly, the representative of the defence committee - I think that three weeks ago he was in Saturday's annex interview - when he says: We don't care where, how, how you will equip, what things you will procure, but tell us what you will do and we will coordinate. And I believe that's why it was possible to buy from this title falcon and nowhere was missing. Not so far. And, of course, it is also possible to talk about the fact that the defence of the southern border is within the Schengen framework and so on, that we also discuss this, including from this title, not only what the transporters say - it now sounds to the public, that even in these plans there are some military aircraft that will not be used to drive patriots. Is this considered, or would it be better to discuss it when you really make a decision? And why is the National Assembly not familiar with these matters? I really don't want to be the supervisor or just the one who, on behalf of the taxpayers, would be on the sad bench that I was taking something today, tomorrow you'll decide without any influence, let's say to this representative of the people, and finally you'll say, "Well, this is the national assembly."
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u133	Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u134	Mr. President-in-Office. Dear fellows and fellows! After all that I have read and heard, and of course with regard to the proposal for a law on the implementation of the basic development programmes, I have every moment more concerns. In fact, it is not only that the country's fixed obligations increase by 2015, that this will mean an additional obligation to do so beyond the mandate of this national assembly and this government, but also means, in some ways, that, as in this country, less autonomy is one way - if we look at trade unions, students, I do not know who, on the other hand, more autonomy to others. In this case, the army. That's how the army becomes a state in the country. And some things go beyond all these limits, and one of the key is certainly the funding that such a law would provide. The fact that countries that behave more militarily than ours are to decide on a different way of funding, which, of course, is more transparent, clearer and more connected. Contrary to Parliament's decisions, you obviously don't mean anything. The easiest thing to do is to secure a bag with no bottom of two percent, others of course go under it, you talk about that it was our promise to Nate, and others have promised a lot, and because of the changed situation, they return to it because of the changed relationship. Even more perfidiously and in some way abusively, I feel that our historical memories, including independence, are being introduced to justify why this is necessary. Unnecessary, unnecessary, and even in some way misuse of arguments. I think that with this stability, as it has achieved, Slovenia can afford to finance such matters as other countries have, say, annual monitoring, shorter plans, but not 15-year indebtedness - we do not know why. On the other hand, there is a great deal of waste, and at previous points, we continue to listen to something about strong savings, the need to save money. The army is an integral part of this country, at least I hope so.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u135	Mr. Jože Školč has the word, you're giving up. Mr. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Today, of course, in the first reading of the law on the implementation of the basic development programmes, we are talking not about what will happen the second year, not about what happened in the past, but about why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia believes that there is a need for legislation from 1994, when we were in a completely different situation, when there was no or because of more difficult economic and also inadequate tax legislation, it was much harder to count on real tax resources when we were under the military embargo, why the government of the Republic of Slovenia carried this exception for the next 7.8 years. There is only one answer to this question. If you're Dr. Drnovšek and Mag. The heist introduced the budget fund [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] for knowledge, in order to develop the skills of the Slovenes and Slovenes, the graduate advocate now wants to establish a budget fund for the financing of the military. [[...]] The army is simply in the dilemma of whether to give more for knowledge, social or more for cannons, but it will not be the one on which they would potentially save. And Slovenia, which has entered the euro, will have a major dilemma in limiting public finances. The military will be eliminated from these dilemmas of public finances, which we are doing today, I object.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u137	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President, the distinguished Minister with colleagues, the distinguished Chief of Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the honourable Members. Apparently, the defence issue is still in Slovenia in the domain of men. In my brief contribution I will touch on the bill, I hope that I will not open any other subject, but at least make fun of the academic titles of certain very well-known Slovenians. In coordination with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Defence has prepared a new law on the implementation of the basic development programmes for the period 2008 to 2015. The essence of this law is that it does not provide funding for basic development programmes with credits, as provided for in the first law of 1994, but only regulates the multi-annual use of budget resources for defence investments in the period 2008-2015. Together, as we have heard many times today, about €710 million, with annual spending not exceeding €105 million. That's what the law says. The law allows for the conclusion of multi-annual contracts which cannot be concluded on the basis of a single law on the implementation of the budget. With the new law, we would realise the most important military capabilities set out in the long-term programme in accordance with the structure of the objectives that we have aligned with NATO and represent our obligation. Let me briefly mention the most important projects for the period 2008 to 2015. First, combat vehicles, around 240 million euros; then communication technology and electronic equipment - about 130 million euros; aircraft including transport aircraft, about 140 million euros; missile systems for anti-lock and air defence - 140 million euros; engineering equipment - 30 million euros; infantry weapons - about 15 million euros; ammunition and mine explosives - 15 million euros. The law also allows for appropriate adaptation after years and assumes that one part of the investment, around 1/5, will be provided under the general budgetary rules. The law does not provide for any non-systemic financing or bookkeeping solutions, it only allows for multi-annual contracts, which is an opportunity for a more rational and efficient use of budgetary resources. The supply system is also maintained, which I think is very important, and a special procedure for the preparation, validation and conclusion of contracts - the verification of the contract through the Interdepartmental Working Group. The bill also regulates the completion of the current implementation of the basic development programmes by providing the State Assembly with a final report on the implementation of the whole law after the end of 2007 and ensuring an appropriate method of filing the principal's payment. These solutions are coordinated with the Court of Auditors and are the end of the discussions on non-systemic solutions to basic development programmes. The law represents a solution that is also used by comparable countries for military multi-annual projects. The law is without prejudice to the amount of the budget each time, because we expect the government to respect the obligation in NATO to provide defence expenditure of 2% of the gross social product from 2008. In New Slovenia, therefore, we estimate that the law is suitable for further consideration and that the whole parliamentary group will also vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u139	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Rudolph Petan to the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I see that in those initial pursuits, the debate has only calmed down a little bit, which I think is absolutely right and good. The fact is that in a state like today - this situation is not from yesterday, but we are in a somewhat confused state, because it is true that when we talk about defence and defence planning, so nothing good can happen overnight, but it is the fruit of some long-term planning, planning and work, unless there are extraordinary situations, but thank God, we do not need to talk about it, at least as far as we personally are concerned. So it's some sort of state of emergency, some kind of long-term planning, and even after that, we're some kind of normal democratic state, and it's not like we've been admitted to NATO because of that situation, and I'm going to mention the European Union in this way, by the way, if we're talking about defence planning, then it's here, say, NATO. However, as far as basic development programmes are concerned, I would say that we were the only ones in NATO so far, at least those who came in later, who had basic development programmes in this context, as we know, that we had, I don't know, what would call it, a special fund, a special tolar that is outside the budget and so on. But the fact is that we actually like to brag about it, and others even did a little bit of envy about how you did it when we had such problems in our countries when our guests came. That's how it was, that was fitting for us at the time, we all supported the fundamental development programmes, both the coalition and the then opposition, you can look, except maybe some exceptions, but I think that the exception was earlier on the side of the ruling majority than the then opposition, so that we all somehow understood that there is no play in this area, but we have to plan in the long term. As far as we're concerned, all we've done is buy the right equipment. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] That's another story. [[...]] We would not open a debate on this. The fact is that in Slovenia we gave about 5% to 7% of the gross domestic product for defence expenditure in the previous country. After independence, of course, this percentage dropped dramatically and fell to approximately 1.26% in 2002. The problem arose because we said in the agreements to join NATO that these costs would be slightly higher, that our effort would be slightly higher, about 2%. And then, when it did, in 2002, we committed ourselves in all the documents and in all the promises of the then government to increase this percentage to two percent of the gross domestic product. And we also wrote exactly what this dynamic is going to be like. I'll read it to you later. As far as other countries are concerned, they had a very reverse process. For example, the Czech Republic was one of those who, after their secession or division in two countries, had a relatively high percentage because they also planned to build their own supersonic aircraft, for which they needed large funds. Because that didn't happen then, and then they cut back a little bit, and now that's just the way it is. On the other hand, what purchases and what the timetable will be, we have written everything in the documents. And you won't tell me that I'm talking to myself because I really don't want to talk about it here because I think the darkness is too serious, and I don't want to make it worse. I have before me a document from the Official Journal, a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces, 12.8.2004 was written in the Official Journal. And if you allow me, I would read first, I would just remember that we wrote exactly in chapter 4/1 - the title of the chapter is "Main Equipment" and are listed individual subsystems for which we will especially strive, from rocket systems, aircraft, combat vehicles, engineers I will not torture you, it is possible to look at each other. [[...]] That's exactly what it was written down. And then it's written here under Chapter 4/2, priority systems and equipment. And it says here: "The priority arms systems and main equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which is already provided or to be purchased or purchased by 2010, will be: medium-sized war vehicles with an integrated cannon for the transport of soldiers and reconnaissance and a vehicle for fire support. The vehicles will be the primary weapon of motorized battalions." And so on. You probably understand why I accidentally highlighted this. We know what that means. This was the 2004 programme and relates to 2015. That's part of it. Then I just want to remind you of some of the things that are written down so that it doesn't look like everything is pulled out of the sleeve. Strategy: 'Replacement of forces from a peace-keeping location to an area of operations will be ensured through strategic transport capabilities, the preparation of national infrastructure and the necessary forces and resources for the effective and timely movement of forces'. Then it is written on the following page: "The Motorized Battalion will be a core unit designed for fighting on national and collective defences and for carrying out peace support operations. The Slovenian army will have three motorised battalions, which will be classified as highly mobile forces. The first motorised battalion will achieve final operational capacity in 2006, second in 2007 and third in 2009. It is also written in the back that every two years the programme will be renovated to adapt to the current situation in us and also in the alliance. The following, which seems important to me, is the following: "In the period until 2008, the Republic of Slovenia will ensure an increase in defence expenditure to 2% of gross domestic product. From 2008 to 2015", as is the case with this document, "the percentage of GDP for defence expenditure will not change. The target structure of defence expenditure will be achieved." That's what we wrote down. And in conclusion of this document we have written: The implementation of this programme will be carried out under the six-year medium-term defence programme adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Ministry and so on. This is said to be nothing new, everything has already been written down, we have to do things on those hands. I think it is also very good that we have kept what has been said that the government will report on this every year through the Ministry of Defence. It's held up, and that's what I think is right. If anything else needs to be added here, there is nothing to bother me that the matter is more transparent, clearer, more transparent. As far as I'm concerned, I don't have any personal problems. When we accepted this, and other documents, when we were in the opposition, we supported it. There were things that we probably didn't think were the most ideal, but we believed that there were some things in defense planning that many people didn't like. There can always be that discussion, or a little more butter, or a little more than cannons, in narration, I didn't mean literally cannons and butter. That's the way it is. Even then, in 2004, the commitment in all documents to increase the spending on defence to 2% of GDP was probably not easy, but we all agreed that if we could come into contact with NATO, which provides us with a security umbrella, it is probably the most painful thing we can do. And even in the opposition at that time, we understood that this is the case and that we are making decisions that will be valid in 10 or 20 years, because NATO does not come in one year, not in two years, but perhaps never. When there's an opportunity, it's done. Like I said. The government has retained the good content of reporting every year and that every two years it will prepare a correction and probably also come to Parliament what those corrections are. What a document this will be, will be assessed by the government and the ministry. Planning is necessary in the long term. I would like to remind the government that we are now talking by 2015. In defence planning, 2015 is already tomorrow in defence planning, so it would be good to have a document in Parliament that addresses the situation also through 2015. This is not as a comment on this law, because it cannot be, but as a recommendation, that we probably all expect to get a document that deals with the matter after 2015, which will also be slightly more detailed, not just those general things that we already know more or less. I will support this document if, in the course of the discussion of the second hearing, there is any good proposal that would make the matter more transparent, but I see no problem that this could not be supported or included in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u141	Thank you for your discussion. I call on Ambassador Aloys Sok to the floor. [[He's not in the hall.]] I give my word to Ambassador Aurelius Yuri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u142	My colleague, I won't be much more than what I said before on behalf of the Group of Members. I would only respond to my colleague Petan, reminding him that we all did not agree to increase gross social product or percentage of GDP for defence to 2%. I would like to remind him that it was also not a condition for membership, that it was not our commitment, but that it was our good will and our promise. And here my call goes to our government to consider whether it would indicate other needs to review this promise again, to reduce this share from two percent less or a tenth of a percent, and thus to save a lot of money. In the debate, I said what kind of investments we didn't need. Someone has previously praised investments in anti-biological, chemical and atomic defence, we have no concerns here, we have other investments that are more expensive and, in our view, are obviously unnecessary and wasteful. If the government can also reflect on the account, on the part of our Government, then adopted, 2004 resolution on the long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Army, if it is capable of this reflection and also of such proposals as will go on the road and in the direction of saving, we will also support this. When it deletes investments that we don't think are necessary, two transport aircraft or a transport aircraft for the transport of armoured personnel, 50, 60 million dollars a single aircraft, if it deletes a ship that we don't need, and activates the idea of a coast guard and adequately trims the recorded 710 million euros, we will, of course, support it under conditions, as we initially said, that the system of individual purchases will be transparent and supervised, that we will not only be informed about the implementation of the law, but that we will also be informed of individual major purchases and that we can also discuss these purchases. We spoke, and we all agree that we need a small, flexible, trained army. The problem is, this army might be in the barracks that the hailstone is about to tear down tomorrow. You've seen what happened in Styria, when a couple of million tolars were not signed by the counter defence treaty, there was a lot of damage. On the other hand, we can easily purchase 136 armoured men who will not help us with what is foretold in 2015. Surely the sources of threat will still be substantially changed, as they are today, and we will never be prepared to do so. Every time there is an elementary accident, we are surprised, every time there is damage due to good organisation, there is also the services of rescue and protection. We're fixing something, but the problems are with compensation, the problems are with long-term settlement, and so on. These elements of the accident - we know for ourselves, not just us, but meteorologists tell us, that tells us the profession - will increase. I'm afraid we'll be surprised again and again, but of course we'll have a properly armed and equipped army. If the government also wants to see the support of the Social Democrats, we expect that in the second reading, the figures will be slightly smaller, that use will be controlled and that certain investments that are not necessarily necessary for us will be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u143	Thank you for your discussion. I invite a representative of the government, Minister Erjavec. Here you go. Make up your mind to introduce yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. Now these issues, some of which have been, I would particularly like to thank all those who have supported the need to implement the general long-term development programme or the 2004 resolution. The fact is that no military organisation can plan in the short term if it wants to achieve capacity planning, this also applies to the Slovenian army. All activities in recent years are under way in the implementation of this resolution. This is also clear from the comparisons of the correctional review, where the five countries are mentioned to have a specific law, but 5 have a method of budgetary regulation that applies for a longer, longer period, not for one or two years, such as our practice. One country alone is listed which does not have such solutions and some political arrangements are being used. More than once, it has been said what is the practice so far in reporting on core development programmes. I must say that the annex to this report since 2003 also lists every year all contracts since 1994, indicating the amount, indicating when the obligation arose, when the payment was made, what it contains, etc., and this also applies for 2005. There are even two annexes, one in tolars and one in stamps or euros, just as the law was changing because the law was further corrected in 2001 when it was being prepared for membership in NATO. It is essential for the basis of this law that it constitutes an instrument for the implementation of the long-term programme, medium-term 2005-2010, which we submitted to Parliament in May last year. And now that the discussion on NATO's targets is concluded, a proposal for the 2007-2012 medium-term programme is also being prepared and an update will be followed by a two-year delay. This law does not contain any reference to a warship or interceptors in this explanation. A specific law is also a justification for the fact that our budget enforcement laws have the option of taking on a one-year commitment of 60% and a 40% commitment of two years after adoption. For a longer period they do not have them, so only those programmes that require a longer period are selected from the resolution on the long-term programme for a multi-annual period of implementation. 30-40% of those mentioned above. This has been the case since 1994, when the law was passed, until 2000, when the government adopted counter-winning guidelines. Since then, anti-procurements for all defence operations, more than 100 million, have been in place 100%. This is not the case with the proposed exception law, it is 1994, but it is a completely new law on new grounds, which in fact passes on all the positive experiences of the past period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u145	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I might want to do this or continue here, where my forerunner has finished. In particular, it should be borne in mind that the Basic Development Programmes Act, which was in force for the period until 2003, was of great importance at the time for the construction of the Slovenian Armed Forces. This law continued until 2007. Next year this law is gone. In the analysis of how to implement the 2004 general long-term programme, which was discussed here, we were looking for opportunities to ensure that the objectives, as set out in this general long-term programme and as covered by the objectives of the forces that we have committed ourselves to achieve also within the framework of the Alliance, are effectively achieved. Why am I stressing this? I stress this because this law is written on other principles, on other grounds. In particular, we estimate that this law will contribute to making the defence budget more transparent, that it will be adopted annually, that the part relating to investment funds for this area will no longer be loaned, and that there will be no more debt, and that the defence system will also meet, if I say so, the logistics itself and the whole segment of providing these funds with very concrete real issues, because these funds, which will be planned annually in this budget, will also have to be implemented this year, otherwise we will find ourselves in certain difficulties, how we will be able to do so and to what extent we will be able to do so. The law also provided for only the maximum possible amount of funds. Therefore, the funds are not definitively determined and are set at maximum for the entire period and are set at maximum as annual appropriations. And above all, the segment that I think is very important, which we have already mentioned, is the taking-up of commitments in individual projects that take a longer time to complete the project. As regards the percentages of funding mentioned for defence needs, these are also recorded in the overall long-term programme as well as in the medium-term programmes. Of course, I would like to point out that it is not only a percentage and that it is not only a promise made by the State of Slovenia in different periods since 2002 but also a capacity that is expected to be achieved as a country like the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with commitments so far. Planning as a planning process is defined for different periods in all countries, and in particular in Member States it is defined for certain fixed periods such as the medium-term programme, the short-term programme - or the medium-term programme changes or complements in line with the objectives of the force every two years - and the long-term programme. So these programmes, which have also been adopted here in the National Assembly, are the result of planning within the framework of the Alliance and only attach to the process and process that requires a lot of investment, analysis and weighed decisions. And we estimate that we have indeed proposed a new legal structure that brings significantly better, more transparent solutions, which will also give the relevant capabilities of the Slovenian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u147	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. We've been members of NATO since March 2004. At the time we entered NATO, we negotiated for certain targets. And soon after, a very important strategic document was adopted, namely the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which sets out all those commitments that we have made to NATO, both in terms of equipment and in terms of the percentage of gross domestic product that we will use for the needs of the Slovenian Army or for the defence system. Let me say that these two percent represent one lower percentage among NATO members. Of course, this document was adopted by the State Assembly in its previous composition, at the suggestion of the previous government, because the former government wanted to be credible, credible, even until NATO. And on the basis of this general long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which is in force until 2015, a medium-term defence programme has also been developed, which defines more precisely the specific equipment, which we must prepare battalions and when we must prepare them to meet these objectives. Why do we need the law proposed today? More than once, it has been mentioned that so far, which is not perfect, has proved to be very good that we can achieve these goals. The difference between the law we are now proposing, the so-called TRP 3, is that it is not based on loans. The previous law was based on loans, and this is based on that percentage of defence spending we committed to NATO, which is, as I said before, between 2008 and 2015, 2%. And this law provides for this volume of funds or within this scope of funds. With regard to this law, let me say that it retains those anti-procurements, 100% more than 100 million, which brings certain benefits to the Slovenian economy. The law is also transparent because we are obliged to report to the National Assembly, and it is no longer imprudent about loans because there are no loans, but we are bound by the framework of the adopted budget. This law is also important because, in the military industry, it is impossible to conclude short-term contracts in the military market. We can make them, but they'll be very expensive. Contracts such as 8x8 are, of course, better if we conclude them over a longer period, not under one annual budget, for example for 3 vehicles this year, 5 vehicles next year; but to do so in a package and therefore we need this law to also respect the visa of the Public Finance Act, the visa of the law on the implementation of the budget. With regard to purchases of equipment in the future, there has been some talk about purchases in the past, I will not comment on this, because it is not my duty either, but I can comment on purchases for the future. Let me say that here NATO standards are clear, we cannot buy equipment that is not NATO certified. We are tied to those capabilities that we have committed to, by having a super auditor, which is NATO itself, which, within the NATO Military Committee, is reviewing what is happening, or actually executing what we have committed, we are actually purchasing that equipment that means increasing the target capacity within the framework of NATO. Let me say that this military committee has recently been here, under the leadership of Mr Colston, this is the Assistant Secretary-General of NATO. Those of you who read the work could read the interview with him, the grades. There we received very good assessments and also said that these plans, these strategic documents adopted by this National Assembly and the National Assembly in the previous composition on the basis of a proposal from the previous government or the current government, if we are talking about a medium-term defence programme, are the right plans; and if we are actually going to do so, we will prove to be a credible, credible member of NATO. And that is probably the goal of all of us, regardless of which government is currently in position or who is in opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u149	Thank you. We have thus concluded with the debaters who have been declared in writing. Since we still have time for discussion, after my assessment of about an hour, I ask which of the Members and Members and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wishes to speak in the rest of the time? My friend Aurelio Yuri. Anyone else? I'm asking representatives of the government, are they going to sign up for this? So, I've got three interviewees reported. The first will be spoken by colleague Aurelio Juri, followed by colleague Miro Petek and finally by colleague Anton Anderlič. Five minutes, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u150	I'll be much shorter. Mr Minister, circumstances are changing, the government is taking austerity measures in many areas. It's just here that we're kind of holding on like a drunken fence, because we made a promise years ago, and I repeat, we've also given it when I supported the government, even though I didn't agree with that decision that we would arrive at 2% of the gross social product for defence in the period 2008-2015. A number of other measures in many areas say that unfortunately we will not meet all the promises made to our constituents and voters, because this is the situation, we need to reduce consumption, including due to the stability of our economy, more secure social security, better knowledge of the Bologna process and so on. I would applaud you if this government came in this area too, suggesting that the dynamics of meeting this promise were delayed for some unspecified future, that we might reach 1.8% and not 2% in 2008-2015, and trim certain investments. Mr Bogataj also explained to my response that this law does not speak of intercessors, and I myself have found out, but I have put my hand forward, because such ideas are for a period of time to build such a system on my own, and that it does not speak of a battleship. I know the battleship is planned, that's what I've been talking about, and I've read about it somewhere, not off the record. And I wonder if it's not in this package, when is it going to be, or has the government changed its mind, and this fighting government is not going to be? From this title I will calm down and count on the government to return to the idea of a coast guard that would allow the rational use of the sea here in this area without going into such expensive purchases. Once again, my call is to consider whether the fulfillment of the promise at that time is, for there are many members of the NATO union who do not meet the two percent criterion, and we could imitate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u151	Thank you. Member Miro Friday has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. As you know, I'm from Koroška, and I've been some kind of lightning rod lately for decisions by the government or the Ministry of Defence around the acquisition of wheeled armor 8x8. And people in Koroška ask me the most about why this government decision, why the deal didn't get Systemic Technology at Ravna. In recent times, however, I have been increasingly asked whether it is necessary to allocate as much as 63 billion tolars for armoured personnel, some journalists have, of course, calculated quickly how much this would mean for new hospitals, oncology institutes, clinical centres and so on. I am simply trying to answer people in this way that a resolution or general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces was adopted in 2004 in this National Assembly and that it also states that the Slovenian Armed Forces will be in place by 2010 [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Armed with 135 war chariots, as has already been said here today, and with 85 light bicycle armors, which has already armed the Slovenian Army. [[...]] Of course, if this resolution were not for this programme, if it had not been for this number, perhaps today in Koroška we would not have had such a revolution, or in the past some silent 'deal' had been reached, that it would have been necessary to go to these 135 wheeled armories, or a quiet 'deal' had been achieved, who would have obtained this deal. And today in Koroška, of course, we have such strong protests. On the other hand, the problem is of course that in the past there has been a rather inconsistent weaponization or vision of the development of the Slovenian Army, in Koroška the tank T55 is being renewed, which, as we know, has gone into the garage and is likely to return to Koroško, not System Technology, but to Metal Ravne, where it will be transformed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u153	Thank you. And the last of the panellists, Mr Anton Anderlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u154	That's right. The army cuts off its piece and doesn't care about others in the country. And it is incomprehensible that neither one of you, but I believe that you have not even thought about discussing what this discussion was really about. This is a financial law and this is not what you can cut off and we are not discussing the resolution. One of the last discussers explained for 10 minutes what was in the resolution, and he read us a resolution. But this is the biggest problem if not for 2004 Mr Bayuk, then the President of the Commission on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance, if not for the whole financial sector, if the international institutions had warned Slovenia that it must go in a different way of managing public finances and that so-called Tolars are no longer what will be possible as a basis in the future financial perspective. I understand the Minister because he wasn't here for three-quarters of not listening to what we were discussing. But the point is that Mr Bajuk spoke in his opening speech on 30 November about what you should do instead of this law. Do you think that we did not know 2004 that it would be necessary to provide funds, all of us together, including the opposition of the day that we invited her to talk, as opposed to the present time when you are not doing so, and we have accepted something that was actually an introduction to the later resolution of financial difficulties in equipping the military. But that is why we have adopted a resolution because we have not been able to adopt a new law called TRP3 in order to finance matters in the same way. But we said, this is a resolution and based on the debate on annual budgets and on development programmes. And Mr Bohetay is deceiving in an eccentric manner when he says that there is no basis in their law to argue that all countries, like us, have basic development programmes to be prepared by all ministries for at least five years and are dealt with together with the consideration of the annual budget in the National Assembly. This year you will be looking at the third budget, you probably know how to do it, and this is also true for the military. And only one of these countries has a longer period of long-term planning than Slovenia, according to basic development programmes, which is what you must do under the Public Finance Act, like everyone else. I understand that you didn't want to answer because it didn't suit you, but there wasn't one on the financial side. I hope that we will continue to discuss whether, or in this mandate, we will start a reform in the field of public finances. In my opening remarks, we are prepared to discuss this, to give our hand to such a way of resolving it, and not only to prolong the way in which it was good in the past, it was probably the only way forward from the year 94 to ensure a stable source. At the present time, it has proved, and Mr Bajuk argues on 30 November 2004 that there are warnings that there is a need to establish a system whereby Slovenia will follow the developed OECD Member States, which have been implementing budgetary reforms targeting budgetary results for a decade. This is the planning and measurement of results and the assessment of the impact of public spending on economic development and social well-being. This is done through discussions on annual budgets and through discussions on core development programmes, which are an integral part of the implementation of the Public Finance Act and not through the 15-year fixed cementing of funds for only one purpose in the budget. So tomorrow let the Beasts or the Zupans or the Brucans come, and we'll do it the same way, but that's not the way. It's not the way and they know it on the finances and I believe they will. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u155	This concludes the debate on the law on the proposal for a decision. That the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 12th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law supplementing the law on the revision of public procurement procedures. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. If you'll excuse me, or if you'll excuse me, the government's representatives are on their way, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, we'll wait a moment. We have moved to a debate on the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the revision of public procurement procedures and I give the floor to the government representative, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Mr. Lavric, this is a law on the revision of public procurement procedures, you want a preliminary explanation? If not, then we're moving on. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u156	President, the law supplementing the law on the revision of the procurement procedure has been proposed by the government following an urgent procedure. In this national assembly, we have been engaged in this law for three weeks. For the first time, we are in the round hall of the National Assembly, where the government is expected to further explain why the procedure is necessary and what the content of the law is in the second reading. The competent commission of the National Assembly has completed its work, we have a complementary bill and a minimum, which would be correct after the government has proposed an urgent procedure when we have moved this item to this regular meeting of the National Assembly at the previous extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, that a representative of the Government, or a Minister of Finance, should he fail to do so, Mr competent Secretary of State or Secretary of State will explain the reasons for at least two - the necessity of the procedure and the content of the law and the content of the amended legislation, including the amendments adopted on the home working body. In this regard, the government's correspondence meeting was also, and please, the President, if you can ensure that the government's representatives either take a break or anything, but let them tell the assembly what is so urgent in this law that it is necessary to accept it in the manner proposed by the Government. I think that, of course, this would be a minimal, respectful attitude of the government towards the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr. Lavric, would you like to present the government's position? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures in Article 11 provides that the application for review shall have a suspension effect by suspending the award procedure until the decision of the State Audit Commission. The contracting authority shall not, after receipt of an application for review in the procurement procedure, carry out any procedural actions or take any substantive decisions. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures should be adopted as soon as possible, according to the Government. The proposed amendment provides a solution to all those exceptional cases of public procurement where the application for review and termination of the procedure would endanger the lives or health of people. That's the point of the matter. So these are the cases where life and health are at risk. The proposed law therefore proposes to allow for the resolution of cases or situations that cannot be resolved within the framework of the so-called general suspension resulting from an application for review. I would like to point out that these are exceptional cases with extremely severe consequences, in short - it is the life and health of the people. In these procurement procedures, the proposed amendment does not reduce legal protection; in fact, it does not imply that there is a risk of life, as I have repeatedly pointed out, then there is no suspension. That's the point of the matter. As you all know, three amendments were tabled on this bill, namely amendments from the Social Democrats Group of 10.7.2006, the opinion of the group of three Members: Mr Milan M. Cvikl, Mrs Breda Pečan and Mr Willi Trofenik of 13.7.2006, as well as amendments from the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of 7.7.2006. In accordance with the request of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, the Government has drawn up a written opinion at today's correspondence meeting, which was concluded by 1 p.m. In doing so, the government has determined that the amendment of the Social Democrats, which was tabled on 10.7.2006, is not supported. Nor does it support the amendment of the three Members, Mr Cvikla, Mrs Breda Pecan and Mr Willi Trophynik. However, the government has positively defined itself to the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. The substantive debate was held today on the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u159	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Commission on Budgetary Control and other public finances as a parent labour force. I ask the Commissioner, Mr Rudi Veršnik, to present the report of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! At its 7th urgent meeting, on 13 and 14.7.2006, the Commission re-examined the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the revision of public procurement procedures, an urgent procedure which it first considered at its 6th emergency meeting, on 27.6.2006. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for its consideration and adoption. In its opening remarks, the President of the Commission said that the meeting had been convened by means of a re-examination of this item on the agenda after the substantive new amendments had been tabled. The proposal for a law, as proposed by the Government, was systematically controversial and inconsistent with the European directives, in his view and in the opinion of the legislature. However, the amendment of the four coalition groups of 7.7.2006 has significantly improved and considers this amendment to be appropriate and European-oriented. In accordance with the business arrangements, the Commission then held a debate on the individual amendments tabled and the articles of the legislative proposal. The majority of the Commission's and invited members present participated in the debate. The debate focused on the amendments tabled. In the debate on the amendment of the four SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups, opinions were also expressed by the representative of the legislative and legal service, that the amendment was not fully harmonised and that it should be supplemented or added to the new amendment by the Commission, and the meeting was suspended and the amendment of the Commission was tabled. At the following meeting, the majority of the members did not support the Commission's amendment proposal and the President of the Commission considered that it was necessary to obtain the Government's opinion on all amendments. The meeting was therefore suspended again. For the continuation of the meeting, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted an opinion on the proposed amendments. The Government did not support the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 1 of the proposal of the Law of 10.7.2006 and the amendment of the three Members - mag. Cvikla - LDS Member Group, Brede Pecen - SD Group of Members, and Willi Trofenik LDS Group of Members, to Article 1 of the bill of 13.7.2006. The Government supported the amendment of the four SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups to Articles 1 and 2 of the Act. The Commission then proceeded to the vote on the amendment to Article 1 and did not adopt the amendment of the three Members. Nor did the Commission adopt the proposed amendments to the amendment of the four parliamentary groups proposed by the chairman of the Commission, mag. Squeak. The Commission has adopted the amendment of the four groups to Article 1 of the draft law, thus making the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 1 of the draft law irrelevant. The Commission then adopted, by vote, the amendment of the four groups of Members to Article 2 of the bill. The Commission then voted on and adopted Article 2 of the bill. However, as rapporteur on the Commission, I was voted on my own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u161	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u162	Respectable present. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we have for a long time even considered whether to report on the proposed law, or, rather, on the amendment of the law. We have also considered that, in view of the legal developments in connection with public finances control, if we had a member in the said committee, we probably would not want to participate in such work because of the procedures that have taken place, and in particular because of the way in which it was carried out on the said committee. Therefore, from this place, my call or appeal to the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy or to the Group of Members of the Social Democrats to leave the Commission to show that they too, i.e. the Group of Members, do not agree to such a game with public finances, and in particular that they do not agree to legislate the possibility of a new corruption affair in the field of procurement review procedures. In essence and in the time I have left, allow me to express my criticism of the Government's representative when presenting the report or the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at today's meeting. At least as far as I have parliamentary practice and my fellow Members, we can say with certainty that, under such an important law as it was today or as it is today under consideration, today's position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been the worst under this mandate. I would, of course, like the parliamentary group, like the government to give a clear position, a loud position, and above all a position that has weight, not as it has been today. I would like to point out from this city another disagreement, which I do not think can be an honor or a pride of the National Assembly. Much earlier and closer to being a disgrace to the national congregation, these are especially the events surrounding the appointment of who will submit the report of the mother’s working body. As you know, as a rule, it has always been within the framework of the national assembly and parliamentary democracy that the position of the President has been taken. If the President is busy, he shall normally be served by the Vice-President or any other member of the working body, whether it be the commission or the committee. However, it has not yet happened, and it has not happened, because it is not proud of the national assembly to try to change the content of the working body's position and the ruling majority in those working bodies in which the opposition has the President's and, unfortunately, the minority's position on the working body in such a way that it does not leave the president of the working body to submit the report. According to my assessment, this is catastrophic, according to the Slovenian National Party's delegation. That the national assembly should not allow the ruling majority to vote that the president, the one who led the report until then, should not report, should not say what happened on the working body - forgive the honourable Members, but, in my opinion, we have reached a point where it would be necessary and necessary to think about the work of this national assembly, on the work of the Commission. And in a minute, just a look at that marriage. According to our assessment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is, of course, trying to extend its powers in procurement procedures. This is not just our assessment, it is a fact that we can understand, of course, as new broader competences. In part, if we did not know Slovenian politics, we would say: of course, it is right that procurement procedures should take place faster, let us give the Government of the Republic of Slovenia more powers, but we must be aware that any new additional rights or powers should be withdrawn or any additional responsibility imposed, especially when we are talking about such high amounts as we are talking about in the field of public procurement. We're not talking about millions, we're talking about billions. Give the government additional authority to operate on its own on the selection, regardless of the quality of the person selected, while not liable in the event of a finding [[End warning sign]] That the government decision was wrong, this is not acceptable in the National Party. However, as it is said, Members and Members have had the opportunity to accept the amendment of the Group of Members. You decidedly turned him down. That's why we're gonna reject the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u163	Thank you. Since there was a question about the report, I ask you whether you have the same report of the Committee on Budgetary Control as I do, where the report is on the four sides and is signed by the Chairman of the Commission of Mags. Milan M. Squeakle. Yes, you do. Good. Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u164	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the vote on the urgent procedure, our Group objected for two reasons. Firstly, the law, as submitted at the time, did not comply with the rules of procedure relating to the urgency procedure. The second reason, however, was the content that seemed so important to us that it would indicate that we had a normal procedure for amending the law. Later, we changed our position because of the perceptions that this non-admission of law by emergency procedure could lead to serious delays in the procurement of operating tables, which are essential primarily for older people in need of operational intervention. And we agreed that the law was being dealt with by emergency procedure, but we said that we did not agree with its contents. Since there has been a significant improvement in content in later coordinated and debates, in particular in the work relating to the audit committee, we believe that the law in this form, as the Commission on Budgetary Control and other public finances has written today, is acceptable and will therefore be supported. We believe that he has achieved some European orientation to include in the final decision the audit committee, which was somehow bypassed in the original proposal, which was not possible to agree. This is how we think that, given the complications arising from the excruciating complaints of acquisitions of very important equipment, in particular those relating to life-saving and which may have a significant adverse impact on health if they are going too long - we think it is right to adopt this law and we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. Today, we are considering amending the law on the revision of public procurement procedures, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, only because the existing legislation allows the use of procedural complications to achieve the interests of tenderers and influential individuals. This must be done, we are determined in the Slovenian Democratic Party. That the state of public procurement is unsustainable, we can see in all areas, especially on the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. In addressing the Court's audit reports, I could say that it is for all auditors that we face violations of public procurement and the consequences of audit procedures that often cause economic damage. No one objects to complaints if they are based on substantive comments and it makes no sense to refer to formalities that are always verifiable and do not affect the content of the offer. The pressure on the call for proposals and on the audit committee by the tenderers is increasing in proportion to the size of the deal. I would like to point out that in all this it does not matter how well or poorly the electoral process was carried out. As long as we talk about the damage caused by public procurement and the revision of those in the economy, one would somehow understand all of this, but when we begin to talk about human life and health, there is no and there should be no dilemma anymore. Public procurement and audit procedures cannot and must not be a reason to endanger people's lives and health. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree with the Government's proposal to end the practice that we all know very well and is currently in the process of purchasing operating tables. Members of the coalition want nothing but that, in cases where the health and life of people are at stake, the public procurement procedure does not hold back the activities of the award of the contract and that the amendment also applies to the procedures under way. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party favour this change for one reason, because we believe that bureaucracy and the interests of capital must never be weighed by the health and lives of people. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the law on the revision of public procurement procedures will also be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Anton Rop will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u168	Dear Members! In the LDS, we have warned since the introduction of the proposal for a new law that the government has missed the formal purpose of the law, which should be to simplify procurement procedures and their special acceleration, where this is absolutely necessary in order to endanger the health and life of people. Thus, in the first version of the law, we received a proposal that was poor, inconsistent and professionally flawed. A law that had solutions that no modern European country knows. On the basis of the main comments made by the representatives of the Council of State for Legislation, the representatives of the State Audit Commission, and not least the opposition's comments, the Commission rejected such a government proposal, rejecting the coalition. A procedural "shamastika" and exercise followed, with which at an extraordinary session the coalition changed the composition of the budgetary control commission so that it now has the majority of the ruling coalition. The ruling coalition controls the ruling coalition. Clients control themselves, we get an inefficient and schizophrenic system of public finances control in the National Assembly. However, we hoped that regardless of this coalition would come before us with consistent, better solutions to take into account the arguments, at least the argument of the profession - unfortunately very little of this has actually happened. The coalition amendments adopted today by the Commission, which are now in law, are unconstitutional, weak and unnecessary. Last but not least, today we have been able to read the views of the President of the State Audit Commission, who argues with all his professional authority that the proposed solutions are unnecessary and are worse than now in force and are in particular dependent on the government's political consensus. In the LDS, we believe that the applicants have poorly assessed the situation and problems in the field of public procurement. There are undoubtedly problems in the field of public procurement. In our view, the law on public procurement should be supplemented in particular. The Public Procurement Audit Act is only one of the subsystems within the public procurement system, but according to the data of the State Audit Commission there is no key obstacle to faster procurement procedures. Just let me have some information. Every year in Slovenia we make about 500 billion Slovenian tolars of public procurement. In last year, 497 audit applications were submitted and in 92%, in 458 cases, the State Audit Commission decided and decided within 15 days, only 8% decided in 35 days, so in all cases it decided earlier than in 35 days. Dear Members and Members, we have a system of public procurement, which is complicated, complicated and possible and needs to be simplified, but at the same time we have many contracting ministers, governments, institutions and agencies that are poorly preparing tenders. Sometimes intentionally, sometimes because of incompetence and ignorance, and there is no doubt that their work needs to be improved, especially to strengthen their responsibility. However, the public procurement system cannot be an excuse, not a protection for incompetence, customerism and corruption. Even in the case of the operating tables and the Ministry of Health, no, in the case of the operating tables and the problems that have arisen here, the law on the revision of public procurement procedures is far from being a key culprit, the key culprit is the inability of the Ministry, the poorly organised ministry and lobbying from all sides and, of course, those who have been subjected to this lobbying. This law will certainly not improve this system, nor will you contribute to solving health problems; rather, vice versa. Nevertheless, in the LDS, we believe that the existing system of public procurement audits can be further improved, so we are proposing again an amendment that actually brings such improvements and gives the opportunity to the coalition, to us all to accept a better, more professional, more consistent and - if you would like - a more European solution. Otherwise, if this amendment, which we have drafted at the LDS, is not adopted, of course, we cannot support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u169	Thank you. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u170	Good afternoon. Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Group of the Social Democrats considers that this law is totally unnecessary, that the text of the Public Procurement Act, which may in fact result in a public procurement review in Article 2, makes it very clear that this case is that these cases of threats or threats to human life and health are covered by Article 2 entitled ‘Exceptions which are not subject to public procurement’ and which states that this law does not apply to contracts to ensure basic conditions for life in the event of a natural or other accident in accordance with the rules on protection against natural and other disasters, etc. What does that mean? In fact, when we constantly bind the law on the revision of public procurement procedures to the so-called famous operating tables, it is necessary to know that the lives and health of people have been threatened at these operating tables for two and a half years if it is true that operating tables or the absence of operating tables in our hospitals are a reason for endangering the lives and health of people. We needed two and a half years, or the previous government and this government, and especially this coalition took a year and a half to find that suddenly life and human health were at risk because the operating tables were not purchased. This is not an example of an accident that requires some material, equipment, and arrangements from tomorrow. This is not the case where, under the Public Procurement Act, we could not apply the Public Procurement Act at all, but would directly order the supplier, the contractor to do the work or supply the goods necessary to prevent the risk to life and health. This case of operating tables - and I will say something else, the case of the purchase of the four medicines that we have been reading about, for which it was impossible to obtain abroad, and this country and this insurance company have paid 5 billion more each year for the amount of these four medicines per year, as much as they would have paid if these medicines were bought directly from a manufacturer abroad. How can we say such cases? Even if we don't buy these drugs, people's health is at risk, so we went and bought them for 5 billion more expensive than we did to go and buy them - last year we were already full members of the European Union and we should make an invitation to tender for such quantities of medicines through a European official letter that could be applied to by any manufacturer or supplier of these four medicines. The same goes for these operating tables. Last February we were already full members of the European Union - why was it necessary to buy operating tables through Slovenian intermediaries? Why didn't we go on an international call? Therefore, our parliamentary group believes that this law is unnecessary, not to mention that in the opinion of the government to the amendment of the four parliamentary groups, the four coalition parliamentary groups, has made it very clear that, until we received the government's opinion, we did not even know that this amendment was intended and intended to be written in such a way as not only to transfer the powers of the State Audit Commission to the government - no, not anymore at all! This amendment, or this article of the law now adopted, imposes a decision not to take into account the suspension of the contracting authority. Think, not only that the "kadia" that the judge is sued and that he is judging, but he is even more far away -- the one who committed the crime is judging himself whether he did it or not! So, these are amazing things, and I think that we should think carefully about the members of the National Assembly, how far do you allow yourself to go, so that you can legalize corruption by means of this law and by means of this law you can legalise corruption. I think you've gone across every border and that "you have to climb yourself a little", as the poet once wrote, and think about what you're doing. The parliamentary group will not support the law and will also take appropriate action after the adoption of the law, because we know that you will accept it in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u171	Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u172	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, representatives of the government, Members of Parliament and Members. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the amendment of the law on the revision of public procurement procedures because we believe that it is high time to prevent abuses that have a major negative impact on the life and health of citizens. We will also support it because some public procurements are being used for political purposes and are in most cases subject to speculation by some contracting authorities. In our parliamentary group, we are convinced that this is doing great harm to affected patients, because this endangers their lives and health, and indirectly to the country of Slovenia, because each later purchase is usually linked to a higher price and higher cost. The immediate reason for the change of law is certainly the operating tables we have been buying for two and a half years and, unfortunately, we have not bought them yet, and there is also a fear that we have not even bought them for a while, unless we have changed the law. In the New Slovenia Group, we also agree with all those who stress the need to revise public procurement legislation as soon as possible. On the one hand, it is necessary to comply with European legislation and, on the other hand, to remove all those obstacles that make our public procurement ineffective in terms of enforcement and also in terms of the efficiency of public procurement. However, this is legislation that is difficult and will require a lot of effort and coordination from the Ministry of Finance. In Nova Slovenija we also believe that all the experience gained in the past years by the State Audit Commission and also the Court of Auditors should be taken into account in the drafting of public procurement legislation. We are also of the opinion that it is necessary, based on positive practices in the European Community, to translate these into our situation. In the New Slovenia Group, we are also of the opinion that only legislation cannot solve all the problems that are present in the field of public procurement. We often face cases that, in our view, are the result of ignorance rather than error when dealing with various reports of the Court of Auditors. We are also convinced that we have learned a lot in these years, since we have had a law on public procurement, and that we have also created conditions on this side to improve the situation. In our view, however, there is something that needs to be done in the field of education. Public procurement is and will remain problematic despite good legislation to a certain extent. It is necessary to know that a lot of money is being spent on public contracts and that some are willing to do almost anything to get the order. This is not unique only to Slovenia, such and even worse things, especially in larger countries, are happening elsewhere. This is also why we will be in the parliamentary group, because we believe that this will prevent any of these mistakes, and we will support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u173	Mr Kristijan Jan will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Dear President, Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! After two days of hard work in the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, we are quite pleased that the objective has been reached; that is, the final meeting, where we discussed, in particular, the three amendments prepared by both the coalition and the SD Group of Members and the three Members for whom the President of the Commission requested a written opinion from the Government at yesterday's meeting. This has also happened during this day and until 1300 hours today the government has also forwarded opinions on these three amendments, where it has identified and given a positive opinion to the amendment of the coalition, which it has found most appropriate, obviously. I am very pleased, because also, according to the assessment of our Group of Members, this amendment brings a positive movement, in particular solving the contentious part of which we believe and hope that in the future we will be able to tackle more quickly those areas that have proved to be the most controversial today when it comes to the most sensitive area of human health or even life. It is likely that all of us in this national assembly realize that we want to resolve this matter in one way or another as soon as possible. The Slovenian Government is also aware of this and wants to solve the problems that have occurred in this area in the past. We all know that this is an important matter, an important law, because individual cases show some urgent action, because these are exceptional cases, I repeat, exceptional cases of public procurement - this is not in general as some want to present it, but it is the most important ones. At the session of the Commission, we said a lot about these amendments, giving such and different comments, dilemmas, for and against. However, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we find that in this area of public procurement, which many are talking about, especially those who are dealing with it, there is something that does not apply here. I believe that the government will come to the National Assembly as soon as possible with a new, better public procurement law, which is certainly important and challenging, and that all these errors that occur both in the contracting authorities and in the contractors, in the State Audit Commission and in whom, for example, the Court of Auditors, we will eliminate and try to prepare a quality new law, including on the basis of mistakes and irregularities that have occurred in the past. That we have a good, quality law, which will also give other areas of public procurement better, especially more transparent business or procurement, because we all know that there are many billions of taxpayers' money involved, many times untransparent. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the revision of public procurement procedures, in particular, as I said before, with great hope that we will be able to resolve these nuisances, which have occurred in the past, for the sake of life and health, as the greatest values of our citizens. And we hope that this law, with this amendment, which we have also adopted on the committee today, will allow this to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u175	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading, this is the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 1. Who wants a word? Squeak, Kangler. Anyone else? Mrs. Pecan [[...]] Mr. Squeakle, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Allow me to present very briefly the amendment that we have drafted on an updated proposal for a law. It is that, at the work of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, we have found that there is an existing law, first of all, and then the amendment of the four groups that amend Article 1 is inconsistent with the law. The law gave the substantive power to decide whether to suspend or not to suspend the procurement procedure for a state-owned institution, in which case of course the State Audit Commission. The contracting authority shall decide by virtue of the first paragraph that the procedure for awarding public contracts shall continue and then give the verification of this decision to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a political assessment. As some MEPs have said in lengthy discussions, it is also up to whether or not a single contracting entity will be able to get through the political network of the government to decide whether or not its public procurement will be stopped or to the end. We believe that this is how the amendment, which has corrected the basic proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has been written to decide on everything, including the finality, the correctness of such a decision by the Government, of course, according to the basic proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has practically sought to abolish the "de facto" State audit commission, and practically in 90% of the cases. As you may recall, the Government has suggested that when damage occurs, when people's lives are at risk or when international obligations are needed, the Government has in all of these cases intended to decide for itself whether the suspension or non-suspensibility of this procedure is necessary. After we had a few days or, if you want, a few weeks of debate, the four amendments appeared on July 7th, which in fact came into the amended bill today without amendment, but these amendments or this article of the amended bill still introduces a political sieve. In fact, it is not entirely clear whether the contracting authority will ever be obliged to reach the State Audit Commission after the review of its decision, following a dictated or reasoned opinion. That is why we have drafted an amendment which first, in paragraph 1, clearly states that it is necessary for the contracting authority to demonstrate a public interest which may lead to the suspension of the suspension, but of course the independent independent body decides to do so by the State Audit Commission. I myself said in the debate that if we have so far had a so-called relative suspension in which the contracting authorities, if they had reasons, were able to achieve an end to this suspension, and in 92% of cases this suspension was suspended within a period of less than 15 days, we have proposed that if people were at risk of life or health, such suspensions would be valid for no more than 3 days; of course, depending on how quickly the contracting authority would turn. However, the period within which the State Audit Commission has to decide should not exceed 3 days. All of this was rejected, of course, after the Government of the Republic of Slovenia gave its famous opinion, an opinion which is a number of us Members and also people who are in practice engaged in public procurement, was extremely disappointed because, on the one hand, the real government: Indeed, the contracting authority decides that there is no longer the suspension of the procedure itself; then, when it has already decided, it will be confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on this "how" by the State Audit Commission. The State Audit Commission, which decides on the basis of the consent of the political body, is no longer an independent and independent state body, but only in voicing, 'confirms the political decisions of the political body', which the government is. Therefore, I say that all that has been happening in the last month in the National Assembly has been the rescue of Minister Bručan, who has mistakenly implemented the law on public procurement and who has certainly not applied what the law on the revision of public contracts makes possible. If Minister Bručan really thought that the complaints of individual tenderers were unjustified, he could have asked the State Audit Commission once before, and several times after 15 days has passed since Minister Bručan came to these conclusions; but this is not the content of the law. The content of the law and the decisions now proposed by the government mean that from now on we will no longer have a relative suspension, because everyone will be equal before the law, but we will have a politically conditioned suspension in Slovenia, where one before the law will be more equal than the other. And those are the ones the government will give them for this political consensus. To Members and Members, of course, I would like to say to the Slovenian public that the university clinical centre, which of course is not an organ in the composition of the government and is not the Ministry of the Republic of Slovenia after the decree of Article 1 of this Law, is never able to – they call it "to come" by the consent of the government, unless, of course, the coalition thinks that by this law we have abolished the legal autonomy of more than 2,500 public law institutions. We have proposed types of amendments to resolve this matter, one of the amendments is also our second amendment to Article 1, where we say that the second paragraph is deleted, says that there is no political consensus, and, of course, if you support the amendments we have drafted, the amendment to Article 1, then you will achieve at least that we will all be equal before the law, and the secondly, that the government is not the one who politically decides on the issue or if you want individual suspensions, but that is decided by the State Audit Commission as some of you have spoken publicly. I regret that in the debate we had, there was little room for reason that there was no room for listening to the legal profession, and therefore, as stated by the legislative and legal service, we have drawn up a complementary proposal for a law that is internally inconsistent. Of course, I hope that at the third reading, the government will be able to prepare an appropriate harmonisation amendment so that the law that we are about to adopt can even be enforced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr. Kangler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. Honourable President, Government Representative, Members and Members of Parliament. I myself have decided that I will also speak a few words in this law, because I have been directly involved in the developments that we are dealing with here today, with questions from the Members of Parliament, both oral and written. If we are talking today about the law, the proposal and the amendments to the law on the revision of the procurement procedure, I must admit for my own part that I was very surprised that the government has decided on such a procedure and the way it carried it out. I am very pleased, however, that, on the basis of the pressures and also the coalition response, and in particular the pressure of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, there has been a coalition amendment that has substantially changed the government proposal, which, in its own way, the President of the Commission, Mr Cvikl, has also supported as far as I know. Of course, if this amendment had not been adopted by the Commission, the law would have been strongly unacceptable in order to be adopted in this national assembly. I don't support this either, because I don't think it's the right way or why and where the reasons for this change were. If this law and this proposal, which was tabled by the government in the National Assembly, really saved people's lives and that these are the most urgent cases where people's lives are at risk, then believe me to support this bill first. And no second thoughts, now. But when a man as a Member feels on his skin and when many of you who are sitting here today look at the matter differently, looks through just a client's affiliation, does not deepen and care about corruption, and doesn't care about public procurement and doesn't care about people's lives, and then, respected fellow Members and colleagues, I have to react the way I do now. If that seems normal to you, none of you who are sitting here today have responded in their own way to the fact that when a Member elected in accordance with the Constitution, by parliamentary elections, asked the Minister of Parliament questions, the second day due to the question posed, a threatening letter and a photocopy of e-mail - this is not normal for me personally! And none of the coalition's fellow Members reacted because they thought it was normal. And when I hear it, as my colleague has now said, it is always the same -- yes, it is, it is always the same; those who fight for justice and justice in this Chamber, on committees and working bodies. But those who walk follow only party affiliations, whether it's white or black, but vote according to someone else's conscience, that can't happen. And if it seems normal for some of the people here today who have objected to me, it seems normal for their coalition or party colleagues who have been involved in such or different attacks today to relive or experience such or other things, then let them say, let them open up and support the agenda so that we can also speak with some other information. And it is likely that none of the coalition colleagues will be too pleased because we will have to talk too much. But when we continue with the story, which is the most painful, it is not the Minister of Health, it is the people who surround him, who lead public procurement and believe them, but who do not believe concrete data. When public procurement is under way and there are such sensitive matters that there is a difference of EUR 200 million in purchasing 600 million, then I think the Member has the right and the duty to ask for these public contracts. And when a Member asks the question again, because the procedures do not go as they should, it happens that the same Member, because only one and the same one happens to have someone take off his e-mail and publish it in one of the officers. And that's normal! However, if we move forward, it also happens in the same case that one of the persons concerned is being hacked into the premises and stolen by two computers; precisely the two where the public procurement data is stored. If this is not normal, it happens that the Minister of Health is stolen from the guest book and there is no transparent review of who went to the Ministry and who didn't - it happens again to one and to the same. Some of you blindly believe your stories because you are afraid or do not hope to be principled, or with a firm spine to speak or even ask your clients what is going on there. This is the only problem; the problem is that a group of lobbyists who want to take advantage of taxpayers are allowed to hide behind patients and to call on patients to respond, then it is a great sadness in this country. And if this seems normal to you, it does not seem normal for the President of the State, Dr. Drnovšek, to refer to some in this country as "dreamers". It is a person who has been democratically elected, mostly in elections, hopes and dares to say it, and some of you do not think it is normal. And of course, the stories are not over because those who surround the minister take the stories forward and are ruthless and lobbying ahead. The minister's following them. Someone's gonna have to take responsibility for it. There is a call for public procurement in Maribor General Hospital following exactly the same story as the call for operating tables. In six sets, it's a billion and a half worth of business. If you ask me today, I can tell you here that both of them are exactly the same companies, which, under the terms "were most favourable" and were also chosen - Aico and Sanolabor; although one in three is cheaper for 50 million tolars. And if someone, when a conflict occurs, determines the basis for negotiations that the operating table must have a precise weight, that the operating table must have a precise millimeter of length and that we do not continue to speak, it shows that some individuals have their own such or different interests. Of course, in this way, and with this change of law, I am sure that this transparency of public procurement will not be resolved. Here, we can only save people's lives and special cases. However, where this is the case, in the state’s emergency situation, or in order to be truly a disaster or otherwise, where the lives of a group of people would be so endangered that they could carry out the procedure. However, public procurement is not limited to the Ministry of Health. Public procurement is carried out in all local communities, in all national authorities and in all those legally bound to drive. And the problems are slightly different than we see them today. And since some are very keen to object, as we have heard before, I must also point out that I am very surprised at some of the procedures of some state authorities in this particular case. I myself have brought proceedings against an unknown perpetrator - to this day I have not received a single reply. On the contrary, there was no real interest. I do not want to go into detail about the investigation of this case against an unknown offender, but perhaps this debate in the National Assembly will remind someone that he will ask his colleagues how far the matter has come. However, believe me, the experience I have and the practice of my long-term work on the committee for the supervision of intelligence services - I have been a member for ten years, since 1996 - to learn about some of the things that have happened, and that these cases, which I have also counted, are not accidental and that they are a special case of lobbyists in Ljubljana who rule over a scene that does not allow the procedures to be carried out normally, in accordance with the rules and want to obtain the highest fees and the highest jobs that in health allow public procurement. And there's something else I'd like to point out, and then I'll finish. It would probably be very smart for the minister to go into public procurement at the clinical center. Some of the public calls conducted in Slovenia, led and led by the Ministry of Health, are sent to all other hospitals in Slovenia, except for a clinical centre. Why the clinical center here is an exception, I often wonder. Do companies that come from Koroška, or from Styria, or from Prekmur, or Primorska, not have any opportunity or opportunity to get to work under the same conditions as everyone else? This bill will not solve this problem. However, the problem can be solved if everyone knows before their threshold well placed, to provide a transparent and fair way of ordering and public tendering in accordance with the law and all the criteria and standards that apply in Slovenia. To all the other Members who make fun of such a problem, which I am starting here today and when I am discussing it, it would be good for them to think carefully before they decide to ask questions, because in the end, they may also be given a letter or someone who "sleeps" an e-mail.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u179	Thank you. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I would like to say that this amendment substantially corrects, if not to make the law "de facto" to deal with it. Just imagine how much time and nerve we would have saved if such an unnecessary marriage remained in the minds of those who invented it in order to protect someone, as has already been said. However, I must say that this amendment corrects, above all, an even higher level of illegality, as well as my assessment - of course, I am not a constitutional judge, but I can say my opinion - I think that this article, which was adopted and incorporated into the law on the Commission, is also, in fact, unconstitutional. I'll explain what this is about. Initially, the law proposed by the government stipulated that the government was the one that allowed the contract to be completed in some way. It is said that there is no suspension of the procurement procedure. Here the government has become just, I will say, some decoration, "some make-up" to cover the responsibility of the contracting authority, who, after the first paragraph of this article, which has been introduced into the law, decides for himself whether a public contract can continue or not because of endangering the health and life of people. So, not the audit committee or the government, the contracting authority itself decides to continue the procurement. Then, in the second paragraph, there is a government that gives consent - subsequently. The contracting authority shall decide, resume the contract and obtain the consent of the government, which shall not be awarded to the State Audit Board until 3 days after it has obtained it. And the State Audit Commission, as it says, does as follows: "The State Audit Commission or its President," why is this even necessary, "deciding on the request of the contracting authority within 3 working days of receipt of the proposal..." - Look out! "...deciding on the request of the contracting authority within 3 working days of receipt of the proposal to submit an application," here is not necessarily correct, "the audit request does not hold back the procurement procedure." So, the commission does not decide on anything, the commission confirms the decision of the contracting authority to which the government gave its consent - confirms. In view of the fact that this third paragraph of Article 1 does not state that it is for the applicant to decide whether the audit application lodged does not suspend the procedure, it says that the application lodged does not preclude the award of the contract. So the State Audit Commission has every right to say, yes, yes, because the contracting authority so decided, because the contracting authority has an interest in buying operating tables for 200 million more expensive than the second most favourable offer. Thus, this is stated in this Article of the law supplementing the law on the revision of public procurement procedures. If anyone can prove to me today that this is not the case, I must read the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on this article before that. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia says that this is absolutely right, systemicly okay, "but the audit committee decides." The Audit Board decides one thing. The audit committee must attach its decision to the contracting authority and the government's agreement, because it has written it in the law of the national assembly. Here the 90 Members present or absent will take responsibility for accepting and deciding that the contracting authority can decide for itself how to proceed with the procedure and how not. By the way, I would point out that the government's agreement in this article is, in fact, only that the contracting authority that will allow itself to decide whether to continue the procurement procedure can be protected by the government. Why is this a political decision and a decision by a political body? Because it is only conceivable that those contracting authorities will come to the government and say, "Listen, we have a problem like this, the life and health of the people are at risk, we have continued with the procurement process, but please give your consent." And the government will look into this man's curriculum, or this authority, this contracting authority, and see what kind of curriculum this contracting authority has, and it will say, "Where, you're not the right color, you're not one of us." Because of this, regardless of the risks to people's lives and health, because here, without distinction, everyone who orders in the procurement process - all institutions, all entities, from the smallest community to the largest public institution, could be called, say, a clinical centre, could be called an hour or anything like that, through public procurement - will come to the bottom of the government if they have such and such reasons to continue the public procurement. In such a case, what this means - that the government will make political decisions, as it has already decided in some other matters, would not now be listed because there is not enough time available. I think, my dear colleagues and colleagues, that we have actually wandered very far, very far. In doing so, even we ourselves, in the Group of Social Democrats, can find that against our own principles, because we are aware and have also publicly stated that this law is unnecessary, because for such drastic and urgent cases of life-threatening and human health, article 2 of the Public Procurement Act, which does not at all provide for a public contract for such cases, is available. It is said that even the law on the revision of public procurement procedures is not taken into account because the contract is not already implemented under the Public Procurement Act, but is free. Because it is an exceptional case of endangerment and human health. I'd go on with other things like that. I think we're in a period when they're born, not because the opposition is doing this, but because, as it turns out, they're starting to leak from different institutions, from different institutions, from different departments, from different sources different information. And we will hear day after day how public procurement takes place in one, the other, the third, the fourth public institution, how construction takes place in various institutions such as the Slovenian Army, for example. What we have heard more or less is only with us in the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. And we didn't report on this further because you all got these reports anyway and you could look at what's actually going on behind walls or in front of walls of individual Slovenian institutions. I think we should actually think about it. I'm sure that a lot of you in four coalition parties today don't feel very good in their skin. And I wish you, by means of a right, sober and, above all, fair decision, to help you not to make this law unconstitutional and, above all, not to open the door to new phenomena of corruption, clientism and, lastly, even criminal activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present. I might be here, where the esteemed colleague of Pecanov has concluded, continued, and I think that this is a good point for a shorter debate on this amendment tabled. We may not yet know how to adopt perfect legislation in this National Assembly, but we will not be able to prevent these phenomena. I'm sorry. Even what he was saying, my esteemed colleague Kangler, is adhering to it. The problem arises where things happen: in subscribers and in control mechanisms. She's not gonna save it. I don't even know how a dot or a comma in a marriage is gonna work. Allow me just one case, which is not directly related to the JN and the procurement procedures, only indirectly. Last time we had on the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances a hearing of the Court of Auditors' report with the municipality of Ljubljana. And there is one example, known to be a major problem in Ljubljana in terms of this size and everything else, that are the problem of records, records of real estate. We have also heard that matters are being regulated and that things are significantly improved in the light of past years. I think there was a report for 2003 or 2004. There it was found, and as one example I only cite. While we have very clear legislation that immovable property should not be sold over an appropriate regulation setting out models, how to sell, sales procedures, public auctions and so on. And in a specific case, it was a building plot that was sold over the existing legislation. So we can have here, I don't know how perfect the laws, I don't know how perfect the laws, if on the other hand the control mechanisms don't work effectively, we haven't done anything. Of course, we are all aware that a complex public procurement system and audit procedures need to be completed, systemic changes. It's been a while since this marriage was passed, but not so far back that I couldn't have been better. And most of the comments go in this direction that, on the one hand, it is extremely complicated, bureaucratic, which, on the other hand, prevents one normal efficient management, transparency and so on, which is also supposed to follow. I think that fundamental proposals should be economics, rationality and, on the other hand, effective control. These two will have to follow this legislation. What we are considering today and the LDS amendment, however, with all due respect, I think that we are doing a lot of debate for nothing. That's why I'm going to cut back on what I was going to say. I think that things are not significantly different from what we have in the basic text, what the Commission has adopted today, and what we have here today on the table, even though this is somehow explained by each of you. Now I don't know if you're really sure about what you're saying or if you're doing it for other things. But the fact is, we're talking about about about the same thing. And if the institutions in charge in that country were to run up-to-date, normal, efficient, not on the basis of dots and commas, but in compliance with the relevant legislation, then it is likely that such amendments to the law would not be considered today. It probably wouldn't be necessary. Tell me whether it is normal for a procedure to be extremely complicated on a certain audit committee to fall, not because it was some irregularities in the procedure, but because it was a factoring of one provider in front of another, which is essential to me, and if someone had received any insider information, the huge price differences and so on. But it goes down because someone forgot or, I don't know why, he didn't submit, say, a certificate that he wasn't convicted. I don't know how it says in marriage, five years and so on, which is what anyone can do at any moment, check every official record. Is that normal? Probably not. And from this comes all of these proposals, which are supposed to follow, in those exceptional cases, when it comes to people, when it comes to their lives, when it comes to health, so that these procedures can be reduced in some way, aired out. And not past the State Audit Commission, in any case, not in the case of the basic text, not in this case, as you suggest, in no way. What you're proposing also gives this weight to the client. I don't know if you understand what you're suggesting. You suggest that these circumstances, as set out in the second paragraph of Article 11, are not identified in this case. If they are not identified, it is clear that as soon as possible the contracting authority will prove that these are harmful consequences that may arise on life and health, this is the case. Pika, amen. You write the same thing, just in other words, which is now in the basic text, the same thing. I personally see no need for this amendment to be accepted. However, I see a very great need, a very great need, and I appeal again to the competent one, in this case the government is said to overwind legislation in this area as soon as possible and to get into the National Assembly into a modified law procedure, both on public procurement and on the revision of public procurement. I hope, of course, that we will deal with these things with a little more seriousness than has been given to the consideration of this law by the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. Allow me to say that nothing blasphemous has happened because the Commission has just voted to present the report to a member of this Commission. Please, make a big story out of this! I've been honest with you, and I really mean it, Mr. Squeakle has been very involved in these days. And I asked the Vice-President to present the report, but she didn't want to. Therefore, someone else has been designated, in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 42 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that the working body shall determine which report will be presented at the meeting of the national assembly. And I really don't understand the big story, the disassembly, and I don't know what all this talk about is about is necessary here. It has also been heard that this proposal introduces the rule that the person who committed the crime decides whether he is guilty or not. I don't think it's a matter of ignorance. I think that from the mouth from which this claim was made, it would be difficult to say so. But that's not true, that's just not true. What crime did the contracting authority commit by putting out the procurement process and proposing that this suspension be suspended and that this procedure proceed? What kind of crime did he commit? He took great responsibility, the great, greatest responsibility on his own part to carry out the procedure. Because this does not end before the State Audit Commission. The applicant for the audit will await the decision of the State Audit Commission. And if the State Audit Commission decides that he was right, the sanction will be suffered by the contracting authority. That's why he's so responsible for what he's gonna do. And it's right that he's ahead of a lot of responsibility, not anyone else, not someone else who doesn't know what's going on there. He's ahead of responsibility and he's gonna have to make the right decision, or he's gonna get hit. One way or another. And that's right. More responsibility, more control, less problems, less corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u183	Thank you. The replica has Mrs. Pecanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u184	Very briefly. In such shameful reasoning - I must use this expression - is the disgust that is caused to me by such expression, all I feel in such a way of explaining actions that are by no means in favour of any member of this national assembly, even a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, not even those Members. And that is why I must say, Mr Chernač, that you have gone over every step of the way, even now that you have allowed yourself to base that on how good you have been because you have helped Mr Squeak. Shame! Shame! I have to say, I can't imagine anything else. And I'll say something else. It is a lie, if you want to claim that the contracting authority, who will take on a great deal of responsibility as he decides to proceed with the procedure, is that in the second paragraph it is written down that the government gives its consent and that you force in the third paragraph the State Audit Commission to implore, yes, yes, thereby ensuring all security, including legal certainty that he would personally be responsible, the head of the contracting authority.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr. Kangler, I put you in the debate room. Here you go. Mr. Blackach, you named him after his last name. Yes, please, Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u186	He called me, but he wants to fix Mr. Black. Some of my statements that he didn't understand well or he didn't want to understand. I must say that Mr Chernač, with this law, we will not solve this problem, which you have set forth. I fully agree with you personally and with the content of your debate. I fully agree to the ground, only this will not be resolved. And also what Mrs Pecanova was saying right now. It's a responsibility in this place to talk about who's gonna take it. In the second and third paragraphs, there is no longer responsibility for the contracting authority. From the moment the government gives its consent, there is no responsibility from the moment the audit committee confirms the process to be completed. But I will introduce you and you have the opportunity and the opportunity to ask the Minister, who also comes from your clients, publicly and aloud. I was talking about the audit procedure for the operating tables earlier. If I hadn't spoken to them all and I didn't want to hurt him as a minister, I am saying that I would have opened my eyes to the minister, that those who surround him are doing him harm. And it would be good for the Minister to ask why the Ministry of Health should pay a million tolls of compensation to one of those who applied for the procedure, and the Audit Commission ordered the Ministry of Health to pay a million tolls of compensation to him, because the Audit Commission found that those gentlemen who had conducted the public procurement procedure had done a fair "shit" and had a fair violation of the law. That's a fact. 970,000 tolls have to be paid by the Ministry of Health. Is it because those who went through the laws that obstructed the procedure put someone into disciplinary action because they have to pay a million tolars to this gentleman from Celje? No, it's not. Why isn't it? Because he doesn't care for a million tolars. These are budget funds, that's taxpayers' money. Not to me. He shows this, if the Audit Commission has imposed on the Ministry of Health, the Minister has all the leverage and opportunity to say, gentlemen, who is most responsible in this procedure, that our government or the Ministry of Health must pay a million tolls of damage. And I'm sure that because of such or different ties and lobbying around him, he's not going to send anyone to justice, let alone a disciplinary procedure. And there were a million tolars in the industry, according to your household.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will support the amendments tabled by the LDS for one simple reason, because at least they ease the madness made by amendments to the majority in this national council or by the parties to the government coalition. In a way, to prevent the government from getting another political task and playing the role of Commissioner. I ask you kindly to stop hypocrisy, that this legislation changes because it tries to prevent or mitigate the danger to people's lives. If it really were for someone else’s life, then I would have bought these tables, even if I had lost my job, or if I had to go for bars because of positive legislation. If only it were people's lives. It's not like we've been playing with this for three years. Therefore, there is no point in amending the law on the audit procedure because of the audit tables, far from that truth. The truth is somewhere else, and the last discusser somehow pointed it out. In fact, he said it was necessary to strengthen the control functions, inspection functions in this country. And this supervision, yet another oversight, imposes on the government, the political authority, the political enforcement authority in this country, to play the role of contracting authority and the audit commission. Both the contracting authority and the State Audit Commission will be involved in this only spider. That is why I am increasingly doubtful that this is another disassembly of the supervisory function, or, so to speak, an independent expert supervisory commission that exists at national level and is called the State Audit Commission. The explanation for this story is very simple. A while ago, we abolished an independent expert body called the Anti-Corruption Commission. We broke it with the law. Three days ago, we strengthened the State Audit Commission in human resources with politically compatible people because independent experts left. If they had a positive conscience, the experts who sat on this committee would recommend that you read an article or an opinion from the former President of the Audit Commission, and he will tell you that there is a Article 11 for ordering operating tables in legislation that is completely sufficient and could do so. Thus, the previous day we have strengthened with compatible personnel, and today we are amending the law on revision, and we are putting the government under review. And that concludes the cycle of corruption. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is a respected colleague and colleague, a basic joke or a basic pronto of the whole story. Stop saying it's people's lives. It is the lives of those who try to correct their material position through corruption in this country, and it is the government majority and this majority in this national assembly that is directly and well assisted by these suspensions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although I was thinking of completely abstaining to speak, it seems right to say at least two things after all these discussions. For the first time, I will support both amendments, first of all, and if the first one is not accepted, second, because they are improving what is proposed in the form of what 4 coalition parties have signed. I did not want to speak mainly because the atmosphere seems to me to be agonizing and reminds me of the atmosphere of the separation of spirits, which has been referred to as a madman atmosphere, and that is how we have been acting in this House in recent days. And I think it's smarter not to talk, press the button, but at least not to make big accusations. Why do I think that? Because I have not been present, but if it really is happening in our Parliament that we prevent the committee presidents from performing their basic function by a majority of votes, then it is indeed humiliating. It's more than a heads-up! But I don't want to use too many words. Let me remind you that I can list cases where some of those who run the parent work bodies are missing due to their leave or travel, they judge that it is so important that the president tells what was going on on the committee that he has not even given the deputy the opportunity to give the report in place of him. I would therefore like to point out once again that I think there is a need to change this climate in which we are working now, an atmosphere which, I repeat, seems to me to be a madman, an atmosphere that seems to me to be on the line of dissension, and I think that those amendments that are wise, however, appear to support them, even if those we know as the opposition do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u191	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u192	Thank you very much for your words, dear colleagues and colleagues. I must say that I join the opinions of those who say that it is a pretense and that today the health and life of health and life are spoken of so little and only to cover other things. These appeals do not convince me, and I think that not many others, especially after all that I have been able to do in the last year, when I am doing a little more actively especially with the health sector and in public health, can find out, hear, or people want to tell me. Because today, right under the pretext of health and life-threatening, we are adopting this law, which I think is legal political corruption, and I believe that this was by no means necessary and that the hunt will continue and be even more open than it has been before. This is the area that the European Union has declared to be the most corrupt area, the area of health purchases. They have therefore also set up a special commission to start dealing with anti-corruption fighting in this area, as the numbers that are spinning in this segment are the highest in addition to the military industry. Believe me, all that we've been hearing from this area lately shows that it's one big, big mollusk. And all those who support today's amendments to the revision law will cooperate. And you don't think you're doing some sort of altruistic act to prevent life or health from being endangered. It's a pretense, it's a bluff. There's only one thing I'm gonna stop at. A few moments ago, it was said how bold and responsible the action would be when the contracting authority decided to withdraw or, in fact, to find that the audit application did not hold back the procedure. This is supposed to be some horribly responsible act. A very responsible act to be paid by taxpayers. If it were written in this law that the minister who would end up in the case of a judicial proceeding that would take place later would lose it in order to put it out of his pocket, then he might support such a law because she would be convinced that the contracting authority would really consider what he would do. However, since we will all be paying for these errors if the contracting authority decides, because of other interests, I am sure that very few times this article will really be necessary for the sake of health and life-threatening, even though it is an extremely stretching concept for me, you know. I don't know what it is then, even some very ruined road endangers health, and some "slumpan" bridge also endangers health. In short, it could cover a lot of things, and since it is, no doubt, written, I think such plays will happen. No one's ever talked about compensation today. The former President of the Audit Commission and the audit profession, who has pointed out the compensations that this country can expect, if, of course, the contracting authority is exaggerating or, as in our case, the unfortunate Minister Bručan, whom I can peacefully say has with him full of co-workers advising him, who have also led him to a situation in this story where he is also present with the operating tables and where, in fact, corruption in the field of public procurement has been in some way present. I think he made the biggest mistake because he didn't order an investigation in his own department. Then there would be no need for any amendments to the revision law if this were done, but there you could find those responsible that we have not yet bought the operating tables. And in the case of damages, I would like to say on the case of these famous operating tables, if it were as it is written now, then Minister Bručan could buy, theoretically speaking, in last year's year's table, which he thought was all right, that is, Lt. Sanolabor, after 590 million tolars. He claimed that they had all the documentation in order, although that was not true. I would have found out about that order. I'd buy these tables for 590 million tolars. Of course, as with the Mollier audit committee or Mr Šumak, he would have succeeded in the court later in the proceedings. And he would have been compensated, not just for the million for the procedure before the audit committee, but for the loss of business, 300, 350 million. These tables would have cost us over 900 million. Today, when the process is happening again, this price is after they have found that they are exaggerating, the price that is somewhere on the table is about 300 million. There would be three damages to state property. But it's on one small case of 18 operating tables. We are opening the door so that this country will pay a lot of compensation, because it will be done earlier, contracts will be signed and, of course, only later will the country be damaged. I say again, write or write in law to partially meet your own compensation responsibilities, including those who sign it. Then I wouldn't be afraid of that injury. But if I do this, in the middle of the mandate, this happens once later, then it's paid by the state, and then don't tell me, dear colleagues, how very responsible this action of the contracting authority will be thoughtfully and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected choir! For 10 years, I have been in the National Assembly, but I have not yet seen the coalition majority prevent the president of the working body of the National Assembly from presenting the position of the Commission or the committee leading it. I don't know if your coalition leader, Mr. Janez Janša, knows what you're doing. But if he knows, it's even more tragic. In fact, it is the dismantling of democratic parliamentary decision-making in the National Assembly. In my opinion, by the coalition majority, this was an undemocratic, not cultural, arrogant and humiliating move. I hope, Mr President, that this was the last case in this mandate and also for the future, and you are also responsible, who are the first of the same in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u195	Thank you very much, although you're imposing some strange responsibility on me. I don't know which article of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Blackach, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u196	I would still ask that we respect the rules of procedure, my fellow Members. We're in the process of handling the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u197	Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u198	I agree that amendments to the law on the supervision of the audit procedure would not necessarily be necessary. In this regard, I would also like to point out that I have asked the Minister of Health, Mr Bručan, whether the law is urgently needed to solve the problem of buying surgical tables in health. His answer was that he sincerely hoped that he would not, and that the problem of buying a table would be solved in a different way. Third. I don't understand that even in a way of working that someone doesn't like, which nevertheless shows problems, the coalition can use its majority to shape decisions that can be unconstitutional, that can be illegal, that are at least unclear and that no one can understand. I fully agree with colleague Pecanovo that the decisions, as are now made by the Government, are still not in line with the basic opinions drawn up by the Legislative and Legal Service already on 23.6.2006, in which she pointed out that the decision in the procurement review process must be taken by an independent and independent audit committee, and neither by the contracting authority nor by the government in such a way that its decisions would be meticulous for the process itself. This was clearly warned. It was clearly pointed out that such a decision, which does not enforce the role of the independent audit authority or the court over it, would be contrary to the directives of the European Union, and it was made clear that a parallel procedure would be followed by a decision by the government to introduce a parallel liability procedure that would take place on the part of the government. My superficial reading of the proposal prepared by the coalition parties also gave the impression that they were trying to solve these basic problems. And that's why I was happy that there was at least a little willingness in this direction. But when I read the proposal thoroughly today, which was also accepted by the mother labour body, the government's opinion on it, then it is clear that thorough reading means something completely different. The first paragraph already means, "without prejudice to the provisions of the first paragraph of the preceding Article, a request for review shall not hold back the award of a public contract if the contracting authority finds that the life and health of the people are or could therefore be compromised." It is said that the contracting authority’s finding, not the audit committee, is merciless whether or not the procedure continues. It is not the independent audit authority that has the right to decide, but the contracting authority. This is contrary to the role played by the audit committee in the procurement review process, which is probably not difficult to identify. Next thing you know, it's completely unclear. Once the contracting authority has found that the suspension is not taken into account, then, after prior agreement of the Government within 3 days, I must propose to the audit committee once again that there is no retention of such a decision. Finally, in the third paragraph, 'if the State Audit Commission or its President'. What is the legal provision and what does the primate - or the State Audit Commission or the President have? In any case, it is said that the President may not judge the State Audit Commission at all, but decide for himself. This is an imprecise provision which does not hold back and causes only confusion in the legal system. However, he goes on to say: "The State Audit Commission or its President shall decide that the audit application submitted does not hold back the procurement procedure." Who's actually making that decision now? Three paragraphs in which each decision means something else. First, it is up to the contracting authority to decide, later it is necessary for the government to agree, and later either the President or the audit committee. While the Government's position, as it has presented in its opinion, is very clear that our proposal, which we have tabled, cannot be accepted because it says: "This proposal is based on the termination of the procedure in the event of an application for review lodged and provides for the possibility of continuation of the procedure only after the audit committee's decision." Yes, exactly, but only in this way can the role played by the State Audit Commission be exercised. In doing so, the government makes it clear that it does not want this role to be implemented, but that it gives the contracting authority or the government the role of decision-making and thus creates a parallel system which the legislative and legal service considered unacceptable. Regardless of the nervousness and ill will created by this law, respected colleagues and colleagues, I think that we will make bad decisions, and I will not support the amendment or decisions made by most of the mother body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u199	Thank you. The list of panellists has been completed. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. We're done discussing the amendment. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendment and on the law today in the framework of the vote in half an hour, that is at 1820 and 18.10. I'm adjourning the session, and I'm also terminating the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u200	Dear Members and honourable Members! We continue the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on employment and unemployment insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 4. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 43. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 4 of Article 2 of the Social Democrats Group. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 3 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 43. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 4 of Article 3 of the SDS, NSI and SLS. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 27. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 4 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 40. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 4 of Article 5 of the SLS and DeSUS Group. If the amendment is adopted, amendments under numbers 6, 7 and 8 shall become irrelevant. Mr. Brenčič, an explanation of vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u201	Thank you very much. We decide on an amendment whose content is crucial, as the content of the law in this article is practically crucial and is also identified by this amendment. Our parliamentary group will, with the best intention of improving the law, strongly support this amendment. But I hope I can get all the rest of you to follow us. If we want to do good in the implementation of this law in practice, we will do so. This is, on the one hand, the most balanced approach that can be taken at this time to the content and purpose pursued by Article 6 of the basic law or Article 4 of the current amendment. Thank you very much in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u202	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u203	On behalf of the Group of Members. Although the Group of Social Democrats has tabled its amendment, which follows what was between the partners, an agreement is made between the student organisation and the ministry. Given that the debate does not see a willingness to support this amendment more broadly, the Group of Social Democrats believes that the proposed amendment, which we will vote on, is as close as we can get to what the Group of Social Democrats is also committed to, and that is why we will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u204	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich. Anyone else? Mr. Žnidaršič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. In coalition coordination, our parliamentary group proposed the same solution as it had been agreed with the students, but there was not enough agreement to do so, and then we were pleased to join the proposed solution of the Slovenian People's Party, which we think is the closest thing to not making students' work more competitive, while returning to the student organisation's educational activities or research activities. We hope that these 12% and the increase in the cost of the employer will not lead to a reduction in student work and thus to a reduction in the amount of funding that is expected to flow into the grant fund. We sincerely expect that, like our Group of Members, this solution will be supported by everyone else in order to do something good in view of what has been done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u206	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the LDS Group of Members. We, too, will support this complement, we think that we all have a very good opportunity in Parliament to correct the error that was made in one phase before that in the consideration of the law when it was not possible to reach a reasonable agreement related both to the full fund for scholarships and to the normal functioning of the student organisation of Slovenia. It seems to us that this is an opportunity for a smart correctional exam and we propose that we do it together successfully.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u208	Thank you. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 75 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 9. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. The 6th, 7th and 8th amendments thus became meaningless. We move on to a decision on the amendment or move on to Article 36 and to a decision on the six amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 36. If the amendment is adopted, all the remaining amendments to this Article shall become irrelevant. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 77 Members and Members present, 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 36 of Article 2 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 76 Members present and 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 36 of Article 3 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 76 Members present and 31 votes against 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to an amendment decision under Article 36 of Article 4 of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members present and 56 votes against 5. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 36 of Article 5 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members present and 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under the number 6 SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups to Article 36. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 76 Members present and 55 votes in favour against 3. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We're done voting on the amendments. We're moving on to a decision on the law. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, Mr Brenčič. [[...]] Here's the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u209	Procedurally. The transitional provision under Article 62 was created in second reading in the second paragraph for substantive reasons to intervene with the amendment in Article 4. In my view, from a substantive point of view, the second paragraph of Article 62 should be deleted. However, the government should assess this by implementing the law. If this is right, it is okay, but otherwise I think that the harmonisation amendment should be prepared for substantive reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u210	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you want a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u211	It is not necessary because Article 62 of the transitional decisions is linked to Article 60. This means that, pending the establishment of the public fund, the rules for the distribution of the concession fee shall apply and, if established earlier, shall be broken down under Article 62.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u212	Thank you. On the basis of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not warned me that the law would not be inconsistent. That is why we are voting on the law as a whole. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 18. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda - first reading of the proposal for a law on the implementation of the Slovenian Armed Forces' core development programmes in 2008-2015. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law implementing the Slovenian Armed Forces' core development programmes in 2008-2015, first examined, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 22. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated for the second reading of the home working body. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the revision of public procurement procedures, the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, that is by deciding on the amendments tabled or on the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group to Article 1 of the Act. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 42. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading, no amendments could be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, for whom 44 were voted against, against 31. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to item 2 of the agenda. This is the third reading of the proposal for a law on religious freedom. Mr. Tanko, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go. Procedural proposal. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u213	Mr President, in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the decision on the law be postponed to one of the following meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u214	Thank you. You heard the procedural proposal. Member groups may be identified on the procedural proposal. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I then put to the vote a procedural proposal that the vote or vote that remains at this point should be transferred to one of the next meetings. We're voting. The vote on the procedural proposal is under way. There are 55 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 0. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 0.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We're moving to the 22nd item of the agenda. I ask the Members of the Liberal Democracy to take their seats and calm down. You have a procedural proposal, Mr. Squeakl, please. Mr. Skolcz, who of the LDS will have a procedural proposal? Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u215	Mr President, we have come into an extremely unusual situation, to which you have helped to put Members who have been obstructed to a vote at this point. But that's, I'll say, their problem, how they react. What I would ask you, Mr President, is whether it is possible, once a decision on the law is under way, that you do not normally allow it to come with a procedural proposal to move it to one of the following meetings. Mr President, I think that you have handled the Rules of Procedure very well, and it would be good to consider whether such a vote is even possible. When we proposed a procedural proposal in our parliamentary group or someone else in our decision-making group, the procedural proposal was never put to the vote. It was this time. From this point of view, it seems to me that you have violated the rules of procedure and that it would suggest that the decision that has just been taken is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u216	Mr. Sculpture! There will be some need to look at the rules of procedure. The final vote has not yet taken place. Even in yesterday's experiment, there was no final vote, so I took into account the procedural proposal and put it to the vote. If you feel that this is not the case, you can refer the question to the business commission and the business commission will answer you. There is no debate on my answer, Mr. Skolch. We're moving to 22. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Specific Agreement of the European Postal and Telecommunications Administration Conference on the Use of Radio Frequency Belts 1452-479,5 MHz for ground-level digital audiodifusion. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. Mr. Skolcz, if I missed you before the vote, I apologize. Do you have to go to the next point? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u217	Mr President, of course you missed me, and I accept your apology. But I would suggest, given your response earlier, that you suspend the session. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u218	Mr. Skolč [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u219	I hope we have the right to make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u220	Do you have a procedural proposal for the next item? Then allow me to open the point, and you will be able to make a procedural proposal. We're moving to 23. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law amending the Protocol Ratification Act amending the Convention on International Carriage by Rail of 9 April 2009 MAY 1980, 1999 PROTOCOL Do you have a procedural proposal? Mr. Skolcz raised his hand first. [[Back-up advertising.]] Not yet, Mrs. Potter. I need to read all that procedure up there. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u221	Mr President, I had a procedural proposal before, but unfortunately I did not get the floor, so I am taking advantage of your way of leading it now. You said there was no objection to your explanation of what happened and that the business commission could judge it. Our parliamentary group, given that the coalition has problems with the rules of procedure, sometimes also with mathematics, with physical and other laws, must adopt these types of conduct and therefore we suggest that before continuing to meet to avoid having problems, whether you have acted properly or not, you call the business commission to define yourself until your explanation. This is very important because the procedural decisions in the National Assembly are very important and cannot be a matter of free judgment. A few days ago, you had a problem finding thirds. You are now taking advantage of the situation by making procedural proposals from a situation in which any normal government would go by withdrawing the law. The law before us and the provisions previously voted on have already been in the vote and the vote has been tried three times and failed. From this point of view, your argument that there was no vote is unbearable is that I am not saying anything else and that is why you have caught yourself in the trap of interpretation so that you should not put it to the vote. Therefore, it seems to me that this needs to be clarified in order to be good if you cancel this decision yourself, and that it would be good for the government to understand what it would understand, in every democratic country in Europe, that there is no need for a majority in the national assembly to make a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u222	Well, Mr Školč, it was not the first time and probably not the last time that you misused the possibility of a procedural proposal for debate and controversy. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the parent working body did not accept any amendments in the third reading of the amendments under the second reading, it is not possible to submit. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u223	Thank you, Mr. President. Otherwise, I will vote in favour of this bill. However, I hope that you will not give me any reproof for failing to comply with the Rules of Procedure, because I intend to draw attention to something that has become a general practice in this National Assembly when we receive proposals from a government that, in my opinion, does not adhere to the rules of the Slovenian language when it does not form the titles of the laws. There are a lot of these laws, so I'm calling now, and it could also be in the context of the European Cooperatives Act. The shortcut in Slovenian is made from the first letters or otherwise, words. If you're looking at what this is, here's the convention on international rail transport and the round is COTIF. If you are looking at a shortcut to the law, the law also refers to a convention on international rail transport. So in the title of the law this should by no means be, this is the subject of a text where it can be used. And I would like to ask that you take into account the legality of the Slovenian language, because the rule of law does not yet have any interference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Potter. In the process, the title can also be amended and corrected. Thank you for your comment. I'm asking, does anyone else have an explanation for the vote? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. At the end of the day, this is on the defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on the protection of whales and dolphins of the Black Sea, the Mediterranean Sea and the Atlantic area. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT IS AT THE CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL RELEVANT WORDS OF THE LAW. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the Law on Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia is confirmed. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the law on the protection of the topography of semiconductor connections is confirmed. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. 64 votes against no one. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the Music Schools Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the primary school law is officially clarified. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The officially consolidated text of the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 4. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the Witness Protection Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The officially consolidated text of the Financial Insurance Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. Under this item, the Assembly will consider: the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for the Court of First Instance in Luxembourg, the proposal by the Ombudsman for the appointment of two Deputy Ombudsmans, the proposal by the Council of Justice for the election of two candidates for judicial office, the proposal for a decision appointing the Director of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposal for a decision appointing the President of the State Audit Commission and the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the State Audit Commission. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. First of all - Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of a candidate for Judge of the Court of First Instance in Luxembourg for the period from 7.10.2006 to 31.8.2007. On the basis of Article 6 of the Law on the proposed candidate from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Mr Mir Prek as a candidate for first-level judge in Luxembourg for the period from 7.10.2006 to 31.8.2007. The proposal considered the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion, so I conclude. We are moving on to the vote. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts on the election, the State Assembly shall decide by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for members of the voting committee, namely: Franc Jazbec, SDS, mag. Borut Saiovic, LDS, Aurelio Yuri, SD and Joseph Horvat, NSI. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? Nobody. So we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the Commission. We're voting. The vote on the election committee is under way. There are 73 Members present and 72 votes against 0. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against 0.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote shall be delivered to the Members, each member shall come to the Chair's table and shall state his name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding itself in favour or against. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the proposed candidate will be elected if voted for by a majority of all Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members of Parliament will place the voted voice in the ballot box, which will be at the table at the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 7 p.m. and will continue until 19.15 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. We'll continue the session at 19.25. With this, I interrupt the session and this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're moving on to the session. We continue with the adjournment of the 26th point - Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of a candidate for a first-degree judge in Luxembourg for the period from 7.10.2006 to 31.8.2007. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 14 July 2006. 76 ballots were distributed, 76 ballots were delivered, 0 ballots were invalid, 76 votes were valid. There were 68 votes in favour, with 8 votes against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mr Miro Prek was elected candidate for the Court of First Instance in Luxembourg for the period from 7.10.2006 to 31.8.2007. Congratulations to the elected candidate. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] We are moving on to a proposal for a decision appointing two deputies to the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to appoint Mr Aleš Butalo and Mr Jernej Rovšek as Deputy Ombudsman for a period of six years. I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Hanžk, the Ombudsman, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members! The Human Rights Ombudsman Act requires that he have at least two and a maximum of four deputies. The same law also requires the Ombudsman to propose new or old deputies to the National Assembly no later than six months before the end of the term of office of the deputies. Since the guardian now has three deputies, the same number as when I became a guardian, of which I proposed one new one, you confirmed it, one, so by the beginning of this year there were four deputies. One of them went to bed. However, given that two deputies are due to expire in December, I have proposed two new deputies or old ones. The law does not require the Ombudsman to make a call, yet I made a call that was slightly different. At the press conference, I said we were looking for new deputies, some of the media published this, and then it was a long time on our website. And that's the same for everyone who's interested in the Ombudsman's news, the information. I chose this path mainly because the Deputy Ombudsman must be extremely good at office work. In an area covered by an individual deputy, he must certainly control even more than the guardian himself. As a result, I have also felt that those who do not come to the Ombudsman's website within a month do not follow the Ombudsman's press conferences can not know what the Ombudsman's job is. That's why I didn't go into a public tender that I didn't even have to make. Five people signed up, two of them old deputies and three new ones. I've had two interviews. [[One didn't come.]] . Although both of them were professional enough, they were not enough for the extraordinary knowledge and work needed by the Deputy Ombudsman. That is why I have proposed to the two old deputies who have been serving this function for two years. You have more or less information about this in the material I've provided. If I say very briefly. Aleš Butala is one of the best prison control experts, detentions, deprivation of liberty, also a member of the CPT, a real commission that oversees prisons in Europe, and a lot of work in this area also for the Council of Europe. So it would be hard to find someone in Slovenia who could handle it better. Jernej Rovšek was a man who, for example, was "covered" for the law on the Ombudsman, which was adopted by the respected State Assembly more than ten years ago. I can say about this law that it is almost a model law in Europe and in the Council of Europe, and it has been translated literally by many, in particular the Eastern European countries, or only adapted to its area on the advice of the Council of Europe because they are convinced that it is one of the best laws. I think that's a sufficient explanation for why I think you're both big enough experts. In the event that they are not elected, there will be a major problem - since December, an illegal situation will arise, because there will be only one deputy for the Ombudsman. I hope that doesn't happen. However, if I think about the period before I was elected, if the guardian is not elected, this institution will practically be in an extremely difficult situation where one deputy will perform the work of the guardian and the work of four deputies. I hope you will support my proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u227	Thank you, Mr. Matjaž Hanzk. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented a proposal for conclusions to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Školč has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Jelinčič noble, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues told me that today, Mr. Human Rights Ombudsman has a better shirt than I do. I gotta say, that's why I put my tie on. And I have to say, every day that he gets closer to leaving, I get more tears in my eyes. For we shall lose such a good Guardian of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u229	Mr Jelinčič, we are talking about the proposals made by the deputy guardians.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u230	Yes, Mr President, I will come, but I cannot help but commend the work and the proposal made by Mr Hanžek concerning both deputies. I must say that this proposal is so happy that colleagues from the SD Group of Members, which would remind a man in World War II of the short term "Sicherheitsdienst", even photographed him while he was speaking, was in short unspeakablely beautiful. It is true that the invitation to tender was slightly different, as Mr Hanžek said, because of both candidates. I think he was a little different also because of Mr Hanžk, because everything is a little different in Slovenia because of Mr Hanžk, they are even slightly different because of Mr Hanžk, and something else. And those that are closer to the pink are a little different because of Mr. Hanzko. I think that both candidates are suitable, certainly suitable because Mr Hanžek proposed them, a slightly different Mr Hanžek in a slightly different way, with a slightly different invitation to tender. However, I look forward to what this result will be and how this vote will be carried out and carried out. I must say that in the Slovenian National Party Group, we have shed a lot of tears on Mr Hanžk's account, but mainly because we wept over him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u231	Thank you. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mag. You've got your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In this mandate, I have been tasked by the President of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, regretting that this State Assembly does not have a stand-alone working body for human rights or equal opportunities. However, the set of circumstances is, by decree, such that we are the parent working body for the reports of the Ombudsman. Since I have done a lot of work in the previous term of office since I was Vice-President of the Committee on Internal Policy, however, I have a few years of experience in monitoring the Ombudsman's regular reports, and I also have experience in monitoring the special reports of the Ombudsman and in monitoring the work of one of the candidates for the Ombudsman, of course, I am referring to Mr Jernej Rovšk. And with all responsibility and seriousness, I can say that, according to my judgment, both of you have been able to monitor professionally, competently and without burden the problems that have accumulated in our society and which have also been reflected in the Ombudsman's report. Since the reports are specific after they reflect the reports of individuals who turn to the Ombudsman, perhaps some matter has escaped attention. In the beginning, for example, I missed the observation of discriminatory behaviour toward women. But it wasn't that simple. That is why I think it is also about what the Committee on Petitions and on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities is dealing with, in many cases, with the same citizens and citizens turning to our committee, and we are on the committee before the task of listening to these individuals, facing the same problems that the Ombudsman faces. And I got to the bottom of it, if anything, then it might be necessary to think first about the powers entrusted to the Ombudsman by the law, and to think about whether or not we could give him any more tools to be more successful. And in this context, I am very upset by the situation which, following a decision by the Elections and Appointments Commission, both proposals by the Ombudsman for the Deputy do not intend to give support. The fact is, both deputies had the opportunity to do this job when the Ombudsman was not Mr Hanžek, but his predecessor. It is therefore important to bear in mind that this is not a very personal relationship, but rather a matter of professionalism. And I would like to invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to consider the emptiness in the work of the Office of the Ombudsman, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It might happen to us that we'll only have one deputy. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u233	Thank you. Mrs Širca, you have been reported under the first group to present the views of the groups of Members and have been informed by your Group of Members that Mr Školč will speak in your place. This one gave up. And when there was a presentation of your views, you were gone, too. We are now discussing individual Members and Members. And only Mrs Majda Potrate and Boštjan Zagorac, who resigned, were reported. There is no discussion of others, so I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision. An explanation of vote when I announce the vote. I am voting on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Aleš Butala as Deputy Ombudsman for a term of six years. The function shall begin on 9 December 2006. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u234	On behalf of the Group of Members, I should say that both candidates are complete, so to speak, a lawyer with brilliant references, as well as international and even distinguished references. They both publish enormously, they are members of international bodies in the field of human rights. One of them even participated in the drafting of the new Slovenian Constitution and other basic acts of this country. Both candidates have already been substitutes for former human rights ombudsmen, who were not named Matjaž Hanžek, but all of these brilliant references on the election commission were not sufficient. Politics rejected them, the reasons were thin, they came right if the Ombudsman’s call, which was not binding in any way, was not broad enough to appoint the deputies as a new guardian, or even a proposal not to be gender-balanced. But we're afraid, and that's why all the reasons are for other kinds of accounting. Firstly, the account that is dangerous, because through the deputies we fear to deal with the Ombudsman, and it is also dangerous because the policy is already again, that I do not say again and that I do not say in this case 'think with the muscles rather than with the mind'. But it will be difficult for someone among you today to challenge the sovereign knowledge of the two candidates, it will be difficult for anyone among you today to doubt the finger on the two candidates and therefore the weight of your fingers on the key, I fear, too burdensome if it is too easy. The Ombudsman’s Institute is a kind of bad conscience of society, a mirror of it, and thus many times shows unfriendly or undesirable images of our environment. But believe me, it doesn't benefit anyone, and at least the state of human rights in our society. In the Liberal Democracy, we have no problems or doubts that we would not support both, as we say, a brilliant candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u235	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u236	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I only hope right now if you're listening to us or if both candidates are listening to me, that they don't think like the ones in the famous Serbian joke when the victim said to the one who was defending him, "Don't defend me if he kills me." So don't defend me, or they'll kill me. But I could not be calm if I did not say that I also know both candidates from another perspective, from the perspective of the Council of Europe. Mr Butala served two consecutive mandates as a member of a highly respected committee to combat torture and racism and discrimination. This is one of the most favoured bodies within the Council of Europe, and when the Council of Europe gave its first mandate, they directly addressed us from the Council of Europe, we hope that Slovenia will once again decide to propose to Mr Butalo, because he had such reputations in this committee, which, I must say, is composed entirely politically and solely of independent experts from individual Member States of the Council of Europe. I have also known Mr Rovšek for a very long time, because he has already taken over the work of the secretary in the world for the protection of human rights, where I myself have acted unprofessionally before. And I have to say, if someone, then he masters this stuff, and therefore, colleagues and colleagues, let's be honest and try to follow the really professional and human references of candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u237	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem has the floor. He's quitting. Anyone else? Explanation of voice. Mr. Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u238	Mr President, we conclude in a very meaningful way our work before the holidays. And today we have already adopted at least some good compromise solution. We have accepted it at such a point where we have all come to the conclusion that it would be a pity, because in this democracy we have done and achieved it in this period after independence, if we have not done this step. When we talk about the Ombudsman's Institute and the people who work there, we talk about very sensitive things. We may or may not like the Ombudsman and his assistants. But if the authorities like them very much, it's probably not very good. But it is a sign of the wisdom of power, it is a sign of moderation, it is a sign of the sustainability of power, and it is a sign of the maturity of democracy, if the parties can find an agreement and power to give people who have references and obviously have them, to identify this business and not to tell them anything substantive, maybe something tricky, maybe some kind of joke, give them support and give them the opportunity to do their business well. I will support this appointment with a very serious desire to support the proposal in general, because this would also be a very good sign of the state of democracy in this country and also of the state of political judgment in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u239	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u240	We will support both proposals for Mr Aleš Butalo and for Mr Jernej Rovšk in the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. It is our belief that they have been successful in their work so far and that it is right that the Ombudsman, irrespective of the duration of his mandate and the new election, has with him deputies, who will act professionally, honestly, independently as the Ombudsman. My colleague Kumro and I were surprised and disappointed at the last meeting of the election commission when the support was not given. I hope that in a good week's time it has been possible to think to this day and that the coalition will overcome the power to jointly support the bid that has been submitted and which meets all the conditions. Members and Members of the Social Democrats will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u241	Thank you. We're voting. The vote on the appointment of Mr Aleš Butala is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 40. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. I am voting on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Jernej Rovška as Deputy Ombudsman for a period of six years. The function shall begin on 9 December 2006. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 40. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the council of the proposed blind did not accept it. We turn to the motions for decisions on the election of judicial functions The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of two candidates for judicial office to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Koper and Maribor. I give the floor to a representative of the Council of Justice if he wishes. [[No, no, ……]] The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented a proposal for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Tina Georgievski to the district court in the district court in Cyprus. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 1. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Lidija Kotnik to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Maribor. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We turn to the Proposal for a Decision appointing the Director of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to appoint Mr Sergi Daoli as Director of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests in the Republic of Slovenia for a period of four years. Does the government want a word? No, no, no. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented a proposal for a decision to the assembly. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Sergi Daoli as Director of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of four years. Mr. Kangler, please. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u242	Thank you for your word, honourable Members and Members. Perhaps one of the fellow Members of Parliament thought that I would not support Mr Sergi Daoli. I'd like to report that I'm very happy to support him. But it's important that I tell you in this place why I'm going to tear it down. I will support it because it is in some way under heavy pressure and forced forward had to resign from the position of Director of the Agricultural Land Fund. All those public instigations, all those public statements by some individuals who somehow wanted to mark the Director of the Agricultural Land Fund as a person belonging to the Slovenian People's Party, although it is our member who ran this fund poorly, which in some way caused such or other problems. I am very happy to have the opportunity and opportunity of someone else coming from another political party to take over this difficult and responsible place. For this reason, I will support him, I want him to drive the farm fund as well, at least as the predecessor did; and all those accusations that have been made in the media, respected fellow Members and colleagues, we know where they come from and who the author of those accusations came from. It is important, however, that services as such and the Fund must function irrespective of the political discrimination that has taken place in that institution. After all, it is a very important institution, which, in some ways, operates with large assets and also with large real estates. Therefore, I think it is wise for this institution, the agricultural land fund, to receive the Director as soon as possible, and for these reasons, I will also support the distinguished Mr Sergi Daoli.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u243	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u244	On behalf of the Group of Members. We closely monitor the work of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of Slovenia in the LDS Club. Unfortunately, we cannot participate as much as we should, and we will not, of course, support the candidate. Not because we would have something bad to say about the candidate, it is simply another type of political personnel, where it is more important whether the candidate is our candidate or not, than whether he is literate. In this story we have been able to read Stale on agricultural land for about 13 months. Today we must say that the barn is no less bright, no less bright, on the contrary, there is more weed in the fields around this barn and it is even bigger. Mr Daolio, whom I wish in spite of all the happiness in his important business, because if he does well, this will be positive for Slovenian rurals and agriculture, he will have no easy work, because his seed goes to the field from which weeds were not previously cleansed. Just look at the example, when the former Director was dismissed for political reasons, the Supervisory Board has been dealing with a 400 000-dollar error that is valuable and important to taxpayers. However, the same supervisory committee, when the Court of Auditors finds more than a billion 660 million errors, tries to clear the matter and place it under the carpet, instead of settling the matter on the Committee on Agriculture, is moving it so much that the soup is a little cold and dusty. Such solutions are simply not good, and our important reason is that the LDS party as the largest opposition party does not participate in the Supervisory Committee of this Fund, as our candidate was rejected on the mandate-immunity committee for the same political reasons. Nevertheless, we wish the candidate a happy hand, a successful job, because it will be good for Slovenian agriculture and rural areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u245	Thank you. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 13. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We turn to the proposal for a decision appointing the President of the State Audit Commission. The proposal for a decision was tabled by a mandate-holder committee, Mr Sam Červek being appointed President of the State Audit Commission. I give the floor to the President of the Commission, Mr Franz Sušnik, to present the report of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I have no intention of reading the report because you have received it, but on this occasion, before voting on the President and a member of the State Audit Commission, I would like to explain the ambiguity that has taken place in the work of the Electoral Commission, which concerns understanding the terms of proof and confirmation. I think that this needs to be done before we continue to vote that the matter will be clearer and that every shadow of doubt about the candidates proposed falls away. In the invitation to tender for the application of possible candidates for president and member of the State Audit Commission, published in the Official Journal, No. 68/2006, dated 30.6.2006, states: "Possible applicants must submit the following evidence...", and then, according to the indents for a Member of the State Audit Commission, it is written: firstly, proof of the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia and that they actively master the Slovenian language; secondly, a certificate of university education of a legal direction and a legal examination or a certificate of university education of an economic or technical direction; thirdly, a certificate of not being convicted of an alleged criminal offence for a period of more than 6 months; fourthly, proof that he has at least two years of work experience in the field of public procurement and fifth time, a CV describing his previous work experience. In all the calls so far, and also in this case, the candidate had to provide a certificate of education and impunity and proof, I repeat - proof of citizenship and knowledge of Slovenian language, proof that he has at least two years of work experience in the field of public procurement, which proves by a CV indicating his work experience so far, and by accompanying a copy of the working library. All of this has been properly submitted by the candidate for president and candidate for membership. I would like to stress in particular that the written certificate of the employer you requested on the work experience in the field of public procurement on the basis of the invitation to tender did not have to be submitted by registered candidates because they had proved this by mentioning it in the CV. I have said this in order, once again, to clear up doubts about what the evidence is and what it confirms. And I believe that, after what I have just said, you will be able to vote in favour of the proposal of a mandate-holder commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u247	Thank you. In the absence of the panellists, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Sam Červek as President of the State Audit Commission. The function will be carried out from appointment until 23 December 2009. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u248	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you to Mr President of the Election Commission, who, in view of the discussions that have taken place, felt that it was necessary for him to really explain to us in depth what it had confirmed and what the proof was. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I would say that we will still vote against the candidate for president and also for the member of the Audit Commission. What's been going on with the audit committee in the last few months, we know. What happened to the role of the audit commission and what its definition should be today, we also know that there was no concrete evidence in the CV, but confirmed, Mr President, that the CV should also carry out the public procurement tasks. Perhaps, but above all, there was not a single word by the proposer responsible for such an important proposal, that is, the government, the government's opinion, we feel inadequate, and because of this such proposal for such an important role as a Member and we will not support Members. We don't want to say that candidates and candidates are bad because we just don't know it. However, we believe that responsible decision-making on such an important function should go beyond conduct or not, and that it would be necessary for a mandate-holder commission, after all the complications it has had with resignations and appointments, to be able to convince and ensure that all Members and Members are able to make a firm decision, not just on the basis of very dry résumés. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u249	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u250	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club, I would also like to say that we will not support the proposal for the President of the State Audit Commission, despite the fact that we have received some clarification today, we still cannot find any experience in its curriculum, either in the field of public procurement or in the field of audit procedures. [[...]] We are extremely concerned that, in fact, in the entire debate that we have had recently on audits, we are putting a man in such a responsible leadership position, because this man or this candidate is likely to be professional and capable, but if we were to look for someone in the National Assembly to advise us on how to protect our fleet by car. The experience that we can read relates exclusively to insurance and automotive insurance, and the only indent that I have found to at least partially touch public contracts is that it has participated in the preparation of tenders for public tenders attended by the company. Anything else on these two pages, not a sentence on public procurement, not on audit. I do not know, in Slovenia there is a whole range of additional audit education, I know that we have also sent members from the municipality, internal auditors to such education, and at least 100 people in Slovenia now have much better reference and professional education in the field of public procurement and auditing. I do not go into other segments, Mr. is an expert and can be seen, but legal advice in the management of the insurance company, legal advice to the professional services, the production of insurance and legal bases, the operation of the committees of the Slovenian Insurance Association, participation in major compensation disputes, this has nothing to do with public procurement and you need to know that, everyone, including those who have at least partially participated in public procurement and audits. Of course, it is obvious that the only reference of the candidate is that he obviously belongs to the right political direction. And that is what I would say, a candidate who was in such a sensitive phase when it was not really clear what the position of the audit commission in Slovenia would be, in fact, report to this call, who, in my opinion, already knew what was ahead of him, and what would be the function of the future audit commission that he would lead, and in this sense, he probably did not care whether it would be the right audit committee or not. In short, we absolutely cannot support a proposal where true expertise cannot be detected.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u251	Thank you. Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u252	Thank you for your word. Apparently, my fellow Member here today, reading, really thinks I'm going to tell him that I'm going to support this gentleman as well. But I'll support it for more than one reason. The first reason is that we cannot leave the audit committee in a state like this. This is a very important reason, and at the end of the day, the discussions of the predecessors, and my interlocutors confirm exactly what I have been fighting for a number of years in this National Assembly. When people appear for more visible functions in this country from other parts of Slovenia, but if we are talking about Maribor today, this man, Mr Červek, I do not personally know, but obviously some oppose him because he does not come from central Slovenia. I'm sorry, gentlemen, it's a law degree, it's a reference that can be drawn from this decision or a proposal for a decision proposed by the KICS to the National Assembly, I understand, I'm sure that the man will be able and that he has so much wisdom and knowledge that he can lead the audit committee well. Of course, I am almost certain that my thinking in this direction, why some oppose it, is right in view of the reactions that I now hear from various benches.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u253	Thank you. Mr Bajc has the floor to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u254	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Since the President, Mr Sušnik, felt the need to explain what it had confirmed and what it proved, and since I was asking these questions on my mother's working body, I must say that what he told me is neither one nor the other. In the application submitted by the candidate for a member of the audit commission, she wrote: "I have confirmed that I fulfil the conditions of two years of works on public contracts, I cannot submit because the persons responsible for issuing these documents are on leave." Nevertheless, also because this audit committee is starting its work, I will support both proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u255	Thank you. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 15. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We turn to the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the State Audit Commission. Ms Sonja Drozdek Shinko is hereby appointed as a member of the State Audit Commission. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of Mrs Sonja Drozdek Shinko as a member of the State Audit Commission. It will take effect from appointment until 23 December 2009. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 12. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 4th item of the agenda - the third is the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in the management of European cooperatives. On Wednesday, 12 July 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal service or the government has not warned me that the law would be inconsistent with the amendments adopted on the basis of the domestic working body. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 7th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on foreigners. On Wednesday, 12 July 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would be inconsistent with the amendments adopted on the basis of the domestic working body. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 63 Members present and 60 voted against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the 8th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the proposed takeover law. On Wednesday, 12 July 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been adopted to the draft law, it is not possible to submit the amendments in the third reading of the amendments, and therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we are moving on to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would be inconsistent with the amendments adopted on the basis of the domestic working body. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 64 Members present and 56 votes against 2. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on Kobilna Lipica, an urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill and to the debate and decision-making on individual amendments and articles. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the two amendments to this Article, the first amendments proposed by the LDS, SD and SNS Members' groups and the second proposed by the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. If the first amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 2 becomes irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Tarchoon, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u256	Thank you, Mr. President. So for the introduction, on behalf of the Group of Members, please. Since I am not one of the masochists who obviously wants to sit down by tomorrow, I will explain both amendments or both. So, in the introduction, I would like to say that it's obvious that the coalition has something "took" to give her one ray. Obviously, we had too little debate and a few things are running out to get it to the end to come up with some, even more correct decisions or proposals, although I must say that we have pulled something out of the debate. Let me begin by saying that Article 9, although this is not the subject of debate, that they have taken more or less into account the comments, they were obviously misled or did not know what we were discussing in the second reading and they realized that the opposition was right. And that's why I thank you. As far as Article 5 is concerned, let me put it this way, I think this solution is better than nothing, including what you are proposing. However, I would ask you to vote in favour of the amendment proposed by the LDS, SD and SNS. This amendment is substantially better because I do not really know what you were going to say if you were going to do something in Article 5, when you said that interventions to space were not allowed in the influential area of the cultural monument. What does it mean? In order to carry out disputed interventions, they must not be planned. And if the problem is in planning, I must tell you that the tenth paragraph, what we are proposing, is that the detailed purpose of use in the influential area is determined in the spatial act of the municipality of Sežana; that is, the one that plans. Obviously, you understood something, but you didn't fully understand it. Since you are telling us quite often that we are against it, I must say that I have found that at least so many votes have been in favour of you both, now in this evening, and you, please prove in that you are somehow able to support some of the substantively good amendments that we are proposing. So, you take one step, too, because we've done a lot of them this evening, and I don't want to stall. That's all I'm gonna say in the end. The affected area was invented by you, so far it's gone. I understand you've had problems with the protected area, but the fact that you've invented an influential area and expanded it will present new problems. To some extent, these amendments also make it easier. Even if it were yours, even if it would be better if the one we're proposing was adopted. In the final stage, help us fix what you've managed to smoke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u257	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will be happy to support the amendment to Article 5, because if we really take that word about decentralisation, then it is unacceptable for local communities to take responsibility, even if it is a natural monument. In the case of natural cultural heritage, it is about that, less human interference, more beautiful and better. Certain things can be best and best handled by nature. I am concerned that by adopting the Lipica Act from a noble white horse, which was once in the time of the Austro-Hungarian Imperial Horse, we will ride the empty grey donkey, which will carry the bath with golf equipment and, of course, the cargo of herbicides, which will turn the empty karst grass into green English grass. Slovenians, I think it's because of the Lipica Act that we'll hear from our friendly neighbors that we're just "beige stablemen". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u259	Thank you. Anyone else on Article 5? Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Since it is an influential area where there is talk that the local community should play a role, we are in the documentation accompanying it, which on a few sheets we have obtained materials that show that the protected area is expanding three times, and that perhaps, on the surface of this document, if we look at it, we think that it is a few hectares. Those who drive around Lipica, they're hard to pass, they're hard to transport, it takes some time. And that this area of Lipice, when it expands three times, covers about a thousand hectares. And that we are now deciding what is going to happen to thousands of hectares, and the Ministry of Culture has also provided us, to those who have read, with a document, with a starting point for determining the border of an influential area in which, at point 4, the relationship between the influential area and the regulatory area of the settlement stated that there is a need for close coordination with the congregation of Sežana in this part. And in point 6 - implementation of the protection regime - the Ministry of Culture has re-written the protection regime by harmonising and incorporating the use of the spatial plan of the municipality of Sežana, etc. It means that this document states and requires us to accept the amendment to Article 5 as proposed by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. However, you will decide whether you will otherwise regulate some law on matters, as already stated in the baselines for the implementation of the regime in an influential area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-19.ana.u261	Thank you. Anybody else want some? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate and move on to the decision on the first amendment to Article 5. Is there any explanation? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 37. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment to Article 5. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 5. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments to Article 9. The first amendment is proposed by the LDS, SD and SNS groups and the second amendment by SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving to the vote. Of course, the amendment is being ruled out. If the first one is adopted, the second one is irrelevant. We're voting on the first amendment. There are 64 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 39. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to Article 9. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 4. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 12. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. Dear Members, before I conclude this meeting, let me wish you a pleasant holiday, happy and that we will all return to rest, good will, smiling, full of new elena. And once again, I invite you to look at your e-mail and respond to the invitation to Triglav, August 22. I promise there won't be any procedural complications.
