ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I am opening the 19th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Before we continue the meeting, let us allow exactly 15 years ago in Primorska, and the evil war for the liberation of Slovenia, which brought us to a free and independent home country, began a day earlier. Sadly, some have missed the end of it because they have sacrificed their precious lives for our better future. Please show them honor and deep respect with one minute of silence. [[...]] [[One minute of silence.]] [[...]] I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Franz Jazbec, Mag. Borut Saiovic, Dimitriy Kovacich, Roberto Battelli, mag. Majda Potrat, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Bogdan Barovich, my trifle from 2 p.m., Aloise Posedel and Mag. Janez Kramberger from 3 p.m. We invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda and representatives of the Slovenian University Sports Association and Mayor of the Municipality of Maribor, Borisa Sovič, on agenda 2nd. I would like to say hello again to all present. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 19th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting on 22 June 2006. I have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda, so we are moving on to a decision on the agenda. Mr. Pece, I assume you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u2	Respected presence, in the framework of the legislative procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the revision of the procurement procedure does not meet those standards which the law should deal with in plenary session. A motion to withdraw a minute ago has been tabled in writing, and at the moment, in the parliamentary procedure, I propose that, in respect of compliance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and in particular parliamentary democracy and the role of the home labour body, the withdrawal of this point be supported for the non-compliance with the conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u3	Thank you very much. More mag. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u4	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! This morning, we had a meeting of the budgetary control commission, at which we discussed the amendment of the law on the procurement procedure, an urgent procedure. On the basis of the discussion, based on the debate we had on this committee, we have not adopted any of the amendments, we have not adopted any of the articles, and therefore the law before us is empty, so it does not exist. It follows that the conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure have not been met in order to deal with this law today. Therefore, I propose in accordance with Article 61(2), which states that the National Assembly cannot decide on matters to which the position of the parent body is not taken, not to deal with, and at the same time reminds everyone that we have already had such cases and practices in the National Assembly, namely, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act. We had the same case, and in this case it was decided to study at the College, on the proposal of the President of the National Assembly, that this law should be re-examined by the labour force of the mother. It is therefore quite clear that the conditions are not met, so I propose that the President withdraw this from the agenda and that we hold a discussion and debate and decide on the other points.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The situation is next. The fact is that the condition laid down in Article 61(2) of the Rules of Procedure is not satisfied that the Commission has not taken a position on the proposal for legislative amendments. The problem we have is that on the other hand, there is a constitutional right for a certain number of Members to propose the inclusion of a specific item on the agenda. I'll do the next one myself. First, we will vote on my assessment of the correct proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. In the event that this proposal is not put to the vote, I will be forced to start with the agenda item and to rediscover that the item or proposal is not ready for consideration at the meeting of the national assembly, which means that we will decide again on this point. I will continue to say that this is called open leadership, even if this proposal is not put to the vote, then I will be forced to suspend the meeting and convene a meeting of the leaders of the Group. Let us begin with the first step before we vote, I give the floor to Mr Tank. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u6	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone. Mr. Chairman! I suggest you take a 20-minute recess before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Of course I'll grant your wish. Before that, I would ask if anyone else would like to make a statement on the position of the Group of Members? Mrs. Breda Pecan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u8	So I would like to say what is just a matter of putting this item on the agenda; I believe, Mr President, that you, as the current president of the National Assembly or the chairman, on the basis of Article 61(2), do not put the motion for withdrawal or inclusion on the agenda to the vote, but only the findings of the fact that there is no law and therefore cannot be considered and delete the item from the agenda. I am sure that there is no record in the Rules of Procedure that the second paragraph of Article 61 is voted on in the National Assembly, but it is your duty to withdraw the item from the agenda without discussion and without vote. Otherwise, as the conditions set out in Article 61, paragraph 2, have not been met, there is no law. Moreover, the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances has not voted that the law is appropriate or that it is not suitable for further consideration in other readings.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, this is not possible under the rules of procedure, since the item has already been placed on the agenda. This option would have been given by the President of the National Assembly before being listed, this has already happened several times, but because of the unfulfilled conditions the point has not even been placed on the agenda, and now it is on the agenda and, as it has come on the agenda, it is only by our will that the State Assembly's will to leave this agenda. If there's no more speakers reported, I'm taking a 20-minute break. We continue the meeting at 12:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats so that we may proceed with this meeting. And I ask Mr Tank if I would like to explain the request for the suspension of the sitting. Please, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u11	Thank you very much. In our Group of Members, we will not support the withdrawal of the item from the agenda. I must say that we were also a little surprised by the developments on the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, as there was no proposal that the law was not suitable for further consideration. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that, at the College of the National Assembly, we have heard the President of the Liberal Democracy propose amendments that are European-oriented, which will make this law European comparable. Although the amendments were proposed, but were also later withdrawn in the procedure, in short, the eminent party which announced proposals for improvements to the text submitted did not do so. However, the coalition has drafted an amendment that has partly taken up part of the European solution and part of the solution, which is exclusively limited to the part where the area of safety or threats to human life and health is primarily addressed, but we are surprised that such an amendment, which would thus regulate the text of the law, has not been adopted. We estimate that some are obviously in the interest of continuing to be vulnerable to human health and that they are not prepared to approach and help create solutions that are acceptable and also suitable for the situation we are currently in. We believe that further consideration of the law is necessary, and we are prepared to develop appropriate solutions in the follow-up procedure, which will, in particular, allow for the direct threat and threat of human beings to be made in such a way that the country can act responsibly and effectively.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u12	Thank you very much. There is no further discussion or explanation of vote on the withdrawal proposal, but there is a mag. Robbery procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u13	Procedural proposal, Mr President. According to the Club of Members, the second paragraph of Article 61 is perfectly clear. If the conditions for treatment are not met, then we cannot carry out the examination. And all I can say is that today, on the Committee on Budgetary Control, we had a lot of discussions and were looking for the possibility of having a discussion today. It wasn't possible. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we have drafted an amendment that is rational, which is European, which allows, if there is a real desire, to care for and to enable, in some cases, a faster audit procedure to enable us to do so. However, it was clear and clear that the ruling coalition that the SDS representative was not up to such a solution that an independent state institution in these cases could allow the procurement process to continue. They insist, insist and insist that the concept of health, the notion of danger, be used to bring into law a non-European, non-professional solution and a solution by which politicians will decide, non-professional institutions - when will the situation really arise that human health is at risk. So if the desire was indeed to save people's health and to speed up such crises, then our amendment would be supported. However, the discussion has made it very clear that this is not yet the purpose of those who were on board the coalition. That's why we didn't see any point in continuing to push our amendment. Therefore, there was no point in continuing to explain what European solutions were, because it was clear that the proposed solution, which has been proposed since the beginning and is still on the table and is political and means a political takeover of public procurement and the wide opening of the doors to corruption and customerism. We have appealed, and we still appeal to the coalition to think about it. Our amendment has solutions, a representative, the President of the State Audit Commission has told them what the right solution is. And you can prepare the right solution. The right solution is to amend the law on public procurement to amend the law on the revision of public procurement procedures, and we will be happy to support such a solution. Today these conditions are not met, so I propose that you presidents find out for yourselves that these conditions are not met, and withdraw this item from the agenda or find that today we have only two items of the agenda that meet the conditions for them to be dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u14	Thank you very much. I'm afraid I don't have a business opportunity for that kind of withdrawal. However, your proposal is incorporated both in the first proposal to withdraw the agenda item or in the second instance, if this proposal is not voted out, into the proposal to postpone the agenda item, which I have already announced at the outset. Before we vote, a classic warning to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Mr. Petan, do you also have a procedural proposal? Please, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u15	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! So, we also received a written motion for withdrawal on the table. In our Group of Members, we believe that some are now playing too much with people's life and health, especially when we compare certain statements that have been written and spoken in the past month. Apparently, some talk about European solutions, which are then on the committee itself, but when they do, when this needs to be confirmed, they withdraw. I have two more minutes and 18 minutes to explain a procedural proposal that is then withdrawn on the committee itself and then discussed European solutions. The amendment, which was also made by the coalition, essentially summed up such a European solution, because it is explicitly written "in the event of a direct threat to human life and health". Why this was rejected, and the whole law was never rejected on the committee, because the President mischaired the meetings and gave the wrong decision to the vote. If he wanted to say no, he should have a positive one, but he gave a negative one because he was too hasty because he couldn't get rid of it. And now, with due respect, I propose procedurally, as I must also justify that this proposal, which is also written, is to withdraw - and some have also made an oral proposal - do not do so, because we believe in the parliamentary group and also broader in the coalition that we cannot play with people's life and health as stated; and that is what we wrote, and that was also on the committee, which has not been taken into account. I therefore propose that this proposal should not be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u16	Yeah. In fact, Mr Petan, you have explained your vote, which is not possible under the rules of procedure, and I will conclude with procedural motion to withdraw. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 30 votes in favour, 37 votes in favour. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the proposal for a decision to withdraw the first item of the agenda is not adopted. We are still voting on the agenda as a whole. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem, please. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u17	No, it is not possible to explain the vote in relation to the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u18	No, the explanation for the vote is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u20	Please. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, look. I think that what is happening today in this national assembly is at least a violation of two articles. First, Article 59, where the draft agenda may only include matters for which the conditions are met and then Article 61(2). I think we should find that Mr President of the National Assembly convened this meeting of the National Assembly on point 1 before the conditions were met. The mother’s working body did not deal with this law, but today it did, but the mother’s working body could not support the law. We have an empty law at the 1st item of the agenda. The first article was not supported; the second article was not supported. Members of the ruling coalition are responsible for this, which, of course, did not support the proposal I made myself, in order to find out, of course, that the law is not suitable for further consideration, which is the opinion of the legislative and legal service, which is what the representatives of the State Audit Commission are talking about. I think that before you propose the agenda for the vote, after the coalition has not accepted the withdrawal, you should find that the first item of the agenda does not meet the conditions. Therefore, Presidents, I really ask you to find out this before you put the draft agenda to the vote, to find that the Commission, the parent working body to this law has no position or position, which states that the law did not receive support in those articles, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or was not supported by any amendment. Therefore, of course, Mr President, I regret that today, the President of the National Assembly first violates the Rules of Procedure when he listed a point for which the work on the working body has not been carried out, and that you, too, today on the basis of an apparently non-existent seminar, have not initially found that this point simply does not exist. I also want this procedural proposal to be decided by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u22	Master Squeakl, I told myself in the beginning how I'm going to lead the session, which scenario we have. I am holding a meeting in accordance with Article 282(1), which means that I am interpreting the Rules of Procedure on my own knowledge and on my own best faith, and that will be the case as long as I am presiding. We vote, I will not make any more procedural proposals, because they are unconstructive and at this moment irrelevant. We are voting on the agenda as a whole. Please. Thank you very much. If you calm down, I'll read the outcome of the vote, and if you don't, I can stop the session. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 29. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 29.]] It means that the draft agenda has been adopted. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law supplementing the law on the revision of public procurement procedures. Now, of course, we're moving on to that third part of the script, so I'd like you to listen. Since the proposal for a law by the home working body is not ready for consideration at the meeting of the national assembly, in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I propose to the assembly that the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the revision of the procurement procedures be submitted to one of the following meetings of the national assembly. Representatives of the Group shall have 3 minutes to give their views on this proposal. Please, now is the time to explain. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u23	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House. We will, of course, support such a proposal to postpone this point to one of the next meetings. But we're in this national convention in some, I'd say, very strange situation. There has been a lot of talk about these operating tables, and I think the opposition has demanded that this point be discussed on the committee, and this has been discussed twice. Today, when we have before us a proposal for a law and through a change of law, however, we will ensure that this point is resolved in some way, but it has happened to us that the mother labour body is a real committee for the control of the budget and other public finances led by a member of the opposition, mag. She did not want or prepare a report and did not create the conditions for discussion of this law. That's how this story goes on. And one may wonder who the members of the commission or some members of the commission who did not want to support the law or to support the amendments do not write a report for further consideration of this law, for whom they are actually working. This question is ahead of us right now. I wonder what they're actually trying to do. It is clear that at this point this Commission is composed of three members of the opposition and three members of the coalition and that it is not actually possible to continue this procedure in this committee. Our proposal will be to agree eventually and complement this committee, as it should be supplemented by the rules of procedure. Comrade Squeakle, you can laugh about it, but your commission has to do something about it, so you don't do anything. And here you continue to read and talk in advance about some corruption and similar things. Well, that just doesn't work. I must also say that the law on public procurement, which you say the government must change, and the government will propose to the national assembly this year, but until we change this law, we cannot simply wait and allow what is happening at this time. I know you're rooting for things to be the way they are, but the way they are, they can't be. Today we will support this, and I hope that we will continue to discuss this law as soon as possible and to adopt it to the extent envisaged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Decisions taken by the National Assembly shall have legal effect and legitimacy only if they are adopted in accordance with the relevant procedures. If they do not comply with the relevant procedures, then the rules of conduct of the National Assembly and the Coalition shall not apply, irrespective of whether one of the 10, 20 votes is no longer available, it shall not be able to act beyond the Rules of Procedure. I think that we all know that the conditions for deciding on this item are not met today, which is why we will vote in favour of the proposal for a postponement of this item in the parliamentary group, and I expect that we will take such a decision in order to avoid non-business conduct. I'd like to say two of them. First, it is our desire to create a law that is consistent with European solutions, which will distinguish between the powers and the role of the contracting authority, possibly the government and the audit commission. In the course of the review of the procurement procedures, it is impossible for the Government to authorise itself to decide when and how the audit procedure will continue. The legislative and legal service has clearly and unequivocally ensured that this is an unacceptable solution, and this is also why it is right and wise to postpone decisions on the content of the law in order to find a different, acceptable, better solution. And one more thing, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament. Talking about patients, talking about being unprepared to save people's health, is now unfair and unfair. We all want to save the law, but in a legally correct way. As for the hospital tables, at least our parliamentary group asked Minister Bručan at the last meeting of the State Assembly whether there was a direct link between the law and the procedure currently under way in the ministry, and the answer was that he hoped that the direct link would not be necessary because, through the procedure he started, this problem would be resolved directly. So please, gentlemen, don't talk to cheap demagogies about solving this problem. The problem could be and should have been solved long ago, in different ways. We also need marriage for other reasons. We will therefore support the proposal for a postponement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u26	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SLS, Mr President will speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u27	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The Group of Members will support this proposal. As this law is obviously prepared primarily because of the operating tables, I am confident that the Ministry will bring this procedure without this law in the process that is currently under way, and thus, of course, demarcated all those thought, even my opinion was that the team that is taking this matter with the operating tables is incompetent. I am confident that the Ministry will only take the procedure into account in the process it is now concluding and that this law will have to be incorporated into the new law. Above all, it is important that we prepare amendments to the Public Procurement Act as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u28	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LDS, mag. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. This proposal, which is here before us, is, of course, bad. And I think that if this decision is taken further, that despite many arguments, the law we are trying to adopt forcefully, it will in no way contribute to the greater efficiency of the public procurement system in our country. Today we were able to listen to the chairman, the one who runs the State Audit Commission, who said that the government's proposal is weak, that it is non-European, that it does not bring any solutions. Today we were able to listen to the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly, which has told us that the legal system of this proposal is inconsistent; and we have also heard the thesis that it is constitutionally controversial. Last time we were able to read and listen to the newly elected President of the State Audit Commission, who explained to us that such a way could not work forward, that this proposal, which is here, is a unique one, is something that no modern democratic European country knows. Despite all these arguments, despite professional arguments, we have failed to convince the ruling coalition, which obviously wants to move forward with a solution which means that the one preparing the orders, which is responsible for transparently preparing the orders at the same time, will also decide when there is no audit procedure. We have not proposed anything but that an independent professional institution in cases where lives are at risk should decide and decide. We have been told: no, an independent institution cannot judge this, only a ruling policy can decide that. This is a bad and this is a significantly worse existing system. And there's something else about revisions. Audits are not a key issue of public procurement, audits are not a key problem, nor are they in the case of operating tables. If you look at what was going on, you will see that the competent Ministry of Health spent 14 months in this case within its procedure, and the State Audit Commission for two decisions, if you look at exactly one month and then one month and a half. If you look at the data on the State Audit Commission, then you will see that the State Audit Commission decides on 92% of the cases within 15 days. So, it is possible to improve this system, not so non-European, but please, today to rape this law will have negative and bad consequences and in no way will it solve the case of operating tables, so we propose not to support this law, to take time to think and adopt a consistent, modern European solution that will improve the system of audits in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Pece will speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u31	Your Honors are here! In the National Party, we will support your proposal to postpone the consideration of this item under the two headings. And allow for the beginning of the less important one, in particular this respect for the rules of procedure and the rules that we have written ourselves. I believe that every single one of us knows that the actual law before us does not meet the conditions for consideration. What is happening and why this has happened on the working body is the matter of those who have their members in the representation of this working body. We do not have any members in the National Party, but the fact is that all members of the Commission have had the opportunity to talk about the amendment and accept it, which we have tabled within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Here let me refer to the more important reason why we support the Chairman's proposal, Dr. Pavlich, because we want to improve the law. We all know that the law that the Ministry or the better-spoken Government of the Republic of Slovenia has forwarded to us for consideration and acceptance, takes up or pursues two objectives, the first objective is positive, it is easier to approach, it is easier to implement the call, and above all that we will have the final desired effect, but the second reason is to disable control, transparency and care for public finances over the work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. From practice, better said in the history of the work of this government and not least the previous governments, we know that unfortunately, also politics, government policy is subject to the so-called secondary objective. However, secondary objectives cannot, of course, be in the interest of the credibility of the government, not of the MPs of the national assembly. We therefore estimate that the damage has already been done on the labour force when the ruling Members were not prepared to support the amendment of the parliamentary group and, in return for the right under the procurement procedures, do not give the Minister responsibility for this. For the only goal pursued by the National Party amendment to resolve the situation was that the minister stands for his billions or millions of dollars in decision. But the Minister was not prepared to do so, so the outcome of the vote was 3-3, which of course means that the amendment was not adopted. For the sake of the stated decision in the National Party, we welcome the announced decision of the other parliamentary groups to support your proposal, Mr President, and thus take the step forward that we consider that citizens and citizens want to be done, namely in the field of operating tables or in another substantive area defined by the law in their content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u32	Thank you very much, buddy. The SDS position will be presented by Mr Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u33	Thank you so much for saying that. We will support your proposal in the parliamentary group, but I would like to point out that the European heritage we inherited in the field of public procurement and the revision of public procurement is extremely difficult. And this heritage has burdened the public sector for many years. I am sure that all those who are talking so vehemently today about new proposals as bad proposals, some non-European and other solutions, when you have had this opportunity and have faced the same problems, could come up with a better European solution, not that nothing has happened in this area. I must say that I am pleased that the government has made at least a bad proposal that is a good solution to the problem we have faced. The former government has failed to come up with any proposal, but it has faced all these problems. I believe that some find it extremely difficult to take better solutions, especially those who have just left the government and coalition. We face this practically in all areas, in all laws, when it advocates some kind of solution that has produced no results and given no opportunity to anyone, but the obstacles themselves. I must say that I am extremely surprised at the work of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. Obviously it is a single-member committee, because the President of the Commission in his own way concludes the matter in his own way without correcting the appropriate votes until the end; and I think that in a number of parties we should also have a little fun with the work of their people who have been proposed for the responsible positions of the presidents of the working bodies. In short, we will support the proposal to present the case. I must say that these political footnotes on the resignations of the members of the audit groups are also more attracted to hair due to the anticipated amendment of the law. When we passed the Law or the Law on the Court of Auditors, powers changed substantially, and no one gave up, and the powers were substantially changed. There's one more thing I'd like to say because there's not much time. The proposal proposed by the Government nevertheless provides for the possibility of appeal and success in the complaint. The proposal submitted by the audit committee is final. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u34	Thank you very much. He'll be the last to present the position of DeSUS mags. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Our Group will also support the submission of a hearing on this law, mainly because today there would probably be a serious debate about it in terms of how it was prepared, and also since we were not united in the coalition on the content. It is commendable, however, that we have substantially mitigated the sharpness of the proposed solution in the sense that we have retained the possibility for the audit committee to resolve the complaint within the time limit set by the law if it comes to it. On the other hand, we have exceptionally narrowed down the area for which this solution, which is, in any case, temporary in our firm belief, would apply, which means that in the coming period another consideration of the final solution of the proposed option may be possible. On the one hand, there is even a theoretical possibility that we should not go into this change at all if the issue of operating tables is resolved in the meantime following the ongoing procedure. On the other hand, in the DeSUS Group, we firmly believe that the government will shortly prepare changes and additions to the system's legislation for this area, which will, for a longer period, eliminate the possibility of such complications as have occurred in recent times and which, of course, have made it impossible to obtain in development time, which is at the same time one that can harm health or even endanger people's lives. We think it is right to postpone or postpone this item from the agenda of today's meeting, and we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr Školč, we are deciding on my procedural proposal. Mag. Robbery said the LDS position, I see no reason to give you the floor to your procedural proposal, unless my procedural proposal is put to the vote. Mr Školč, if you have a proposal concerning a possible suspension of the sitting, you can say, I will give you my word, black very much I do not like because I have the feeling that this is a delay. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would ask for attention because my proposal refers absolutely to these procedures. I think it is necessary to reject the motion for postponement, if such a vote is to take place, because this is the shortest way to reach a new law; and it is necessary to take an appropriate decision on the completion of the procedure. This is what the report of the relevant working body states, which is written in such a way that further consideration of this law is not actually possible. We're putting something in the next session that isn't. If the coalition and the leadership of the council really wants to change this law and the government, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u38	Mr. Školč, this is an explanation of vote why you will vote against.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u39	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u40	I have not yet considered the procedural proposal from your debate, a proposal. What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u41	I will propose exactly what you have suggested to me to give 10 minutes' rest so that the leaders of the parliamentary groups can reconsider this vote. What's going to happen? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u42	Mr Školč, do you have the authority of the Head of the LDS Group to make such a proposal publicly available?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u43	Mr Pavliha, if you were to conduct the meeting so closely, as far as this is concerned, we would not be able to come to this conclusion today. I don't have the authority, you know that, you gave me your word anyway, and I'm asking if I can proceed. But if not, then I apologize for stealing your time, but I assure you that it is more worth taking 10 minutes to think about these words, to come up with new solutions quickly than this complication to carry on. The stamina of the coalition and the inability of the leadership of the National Assembly will not solve this.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Sculpture. Nor will your severe crisis be solved, and because you do not have the authority of the leader of the parliamentary group, we are moving to a vote on the proposal to move the 1st item to one of the next meetings of the national assembly. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 63 votes against 1. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I'm closing this agenda item. I thank all the ministers for their patient wait. If you don't mind, I'll continue with 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is the defence of the previous agreement on the application of the candidate for the organisation 25. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the We have two hours and 35 minutes to discuss. The proposal was submitted by the Slovenian University Sport Association in prior agreement with the Council. I'm guessing there's probably no representative yet. They're probably coming. I give my word to the liaison representative, Dr. Otmar Kugovnik, for further explanation. And I'd like to ask Dr. Kugovnik to explain behind the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u45	Presidents, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I'll be brief. A few years ago, the Slovenian University Sports Association began to place very intensively in the international university sports space. During this time, we have achieved visible success here with the help of extremely high-quality student athletes, and also with our approach, with our work, with our ideas and we have become actually, I can say irresistibly, one of the factors that co-form policies in the international university sport space. In addition, we followed the universities that have been happening, now winters, already six times in Spain, South Korea, Slovakia, Poland, Italy and lastly in Austria. And everywhere we've found that these universities leave these extremely positive effects on local, regional environments, on countries. Not only in terms of extremely enlarged and improved infrastructure, but also in terms of the visibility of university space and wider. And so the idea matured, in fact "timing" was convenient, we became a factor in the international space, we found that the university as such had extremely positive effects, and we were encouraged and we said why not try to organize winter universities in Slovenia. Just thinking has led us to find, as our first potential partner, the municipality of Maribor, not only because of the famous organizers of the Golden Fox at Pohorje and the winter sports event, but also because of Maribor as a university city, but in the beginning, with representatives of the municipality, the mayor found that their medium- and long-term plans are extremely covered by the expected "upgradation" and with the infrastructure requirements of the university. And it started. We have defined other partners in this project, besides the municipality of Maribor as a partner, all three universities, the University of Primorska, Ljubljana and Maribor, as partners, then the partner of the Olympic Committee, the Association of Sports Unions and the Slovenian Student Organization. All partners recognized this project as positive and also supported it in the written support attached to the material. In this respect, an extremely large consensus has been reached for all those interested in this winter university. And what I am particularly pleased about is that these universities in all the dialogues that we have had so far do not only understand the opportunity to realize a sport event that is very likely, I can anticipate, or I would certainly be the greatest in the Republic of Slovenia so far, and probably ever. It's actually a second-largest event for the Olympics. All the partners, as I mentioned, supported this university with an extremely large consensus and also understood it not only as an opportunity to realize the event, but mainly as a major challenge, which, somewhere synergistically, seeks to sum up financial, human and environmental potentials for the implementation of this project. In this sense, we understand the university as a mechanism to build more in this environment. On the other hand, we consider that the age of the Republic and the development of democracy are also one that needs to be shown to the world as a great success, even in such a way as to show that, within the highest percentage of civil organisation, such a major event can be achieved. Ladies Members, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I am informed that I would also like to have the floor, Mr. Mayor Sovic. And since the five-minute time for further explanation has run out, I inform the Mayor that he will be able to take advantage of the five minutes that the applicant has at the time of the debate. And whenever the debate starts, you have the opportunity to make full or separate use of this time at your discretion. The proposal also addressed the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body and I ask the Committee member, Mr Branko Marinič, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u47	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, distinguished other representatives, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Report on prior agreement to apply for organisation XXV. The 2011 Winter Universities in Maribor were, of course, also addressed by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, at its 9th emergency meeting on 13 June 2006. In a broad presentation, the representative of the Slovenian University Sports Association presented all the basic starting points that dictate and give a positive opinion to previous consensus and stressed that such events have other effects, but of course also Slovenia, especially Maribor, gained sufficient experience in these winter sports to perform this winter university. The representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also presented their written opinion, in which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees with the previous consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to the candidacy of the Slovenian University Sports Union for the organisation of XXV. Winter Universities. In a broad discussion of the members and members of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, we expressed broad support for the application with different conclusions, so first what this means for Slovenia itself, what this means for Maribor itself with a wider and narrower environment. We agreed that the university city and all the sports facilities that are already available and which, if this happens, will, of course, receive the many additional infrastructure facilities needed to carry out this university. Following the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee adopted the following conclusions that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia had previously agreed to submit an application for the organisation of XXV. The University of Maribor of Winter 2011 and agrees to co-finance the event from state resources, with the police working resources provided in the special budget line at the Ministry of the Interior. The organiser of the event shall submit to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a detailed report on the use of the financial resources no later than six months after the end of the event. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Culture, Education and Sport proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to review and adopt that decision by 30 June 2006, when the deadline for the submission of applications for international university sport is reached. And maybe for closure. Members and members of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport confirmed the conclusions unanimously.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u48	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Marjetka Uhan has the floor on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u49	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, motioners, Members and Members of Parliament! At the beginning of the presentation of the New Slovenia Group's position, let me say that we support the application for the organisation of XXV. Winter Universities Maribor 2011. These are student Olympic Games Slovenian athletes - students have achieved many awards in the winter universities so far, and Slovenia can also boast as a good organizer of various events, even though the university is offered for the first time, there is no reason that they would not be organizers of the biggest winter sports games for students. In Novi Slovenija we have no doubts that Maribor could not run for this event. But thoughts and questions arise when we start talking about what we have, what we don't have, where we're going to learn about each other's sports games and how much it costs. Since it is not known at this time whether we will go to the construction of all the missing infrastructure in the Maribor area, we believe that in Slovenia there are relatively small distances, that we have objects known around the world, we have running routes, ski slopes, jumping alleys, halls that are not used to call for reconstruction. Let me give just one example, for example, the Planica, which is planned for reconstruction, because it is intended to compete for the World Cup in Nordic disciplines in 2013. We wonder if we're going to use it, we're going to rebuild it by then, and we're going to use it for the needs of the university. We would probably be even more dissatisfied if this project were to "stemble" at the expense of another event. We also ask, the funds for the construction of missing facilities are provided for in individual ministries. They're not. We mean, we support the candidacy, but we stress that we must act rationally and make use of existing infrastructure. It would be difficult to justify the taxpayer's money if any objects were to be singled out after the event and not to become eloquent in tourism, the economy, as we all expect from this event, so as not to go to the development of the region, so as not to get a new impetus so that there is no emphasis on tourism, on new jobs, etc. In New Slovenia, we believe that the university is a gift to students and in this spirit we should think that more emphasis could be given in the future to the development of recreational sport, not only to top sports, which has relatively few students, I think only 3% of the students compete at the university. In Novi Slovenija we see another opportunity for Maribor and the University of Maribor. But it may be worth thinking about opening up in Maribor, for example, a college for sports that would raise and cultivate a sports spirit not only among professionals but also among other students. However, the university and its associated costs will certainly be justified if this yields fruit and investments are justified if the capacity is used for more than 14 winter days. We support the candidate in New Slovenia. But in terms of finance, we're gonna have to pour ourselves some clean wine, start with what we're going to invest in. I believe that we will be able to agree and that the role of Maribor will not be less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u51	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished applicants from Maribor, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We will also support the Slovenian People's Party's previous agreement to apply for the organization of the University of Winter in Maribor and also agree to co-financing from state resources. The opinion of the Slovenian People's Party is that the organisation of each international sport event means an extraordinary promotion for each country and positive economic effects for the environment, while the organisation of such an event means a great responsibility. The fact is that many of the achievements of our students' athletes at these winters and also at the annual universities and at the world and European university championships place Slovenia among the most successful countries, so these successes must also encourage us to support the organisation of such an event. Of course, in the Slovenian People's Party we feel that it is necessary to ensure rational construction of new buildings and to ensure what we believe is most important: their functionality also after the university has finished. We believe that, on this occasion, it is necessary to use those objects that already exist after Slovenia and, of course, allow such events, and to build new ones only that are needed, of course, as a complement to existing facilities. In fact, it would not have happened, as it had been before me, that there were large sports facilities, large sports centres that were collapsing. This should not happen with the event or with the facilities to be built during this event. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party we wonder whether it makes sense in this case to build a new jumping center in Maribor, because we actually know that several jumping centers in Slovenia already exist, because of course it is possible to take advantage of this sport as part of the university. We will certainly support this prior agreement in the Slovenian People's Party for the submission of the candidacy, but as has already been said before, we will be careful to ensure that the money from the budget is spent as carefully as possible, responsibly and rationally as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I invite my colleague Peceta, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u53	Your Honors are here! With certainty, on behalf of the Member and Members of the Slovenian National Party, I would like to express my thanks to both the representative of the Association of Dr. Kugovnik and the Mayor of the Municipality of Maribor to Mr. Sovič and, of course, to the representative of the University of Maribor, Dr. Radonjič for the activities carried out so far around the project, for which I sincerely hope that the city of Maribor will meet him, around the project for which I can sincerely hope to say that the Republic of Slovenia will meet him. To say simply that this is a project of the city of Maribor and not a project of our country of the Republic of Slovenia is not finally inappropriate. We are talking about a major project that will reflect in all its synergies both for the city and for our country, i.e. at the highest possible level. It is right that cooperation is taking place both between the university, the city of Maribor, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, last but not least, between the legislative branch of the authorities, namely the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia. According to our assessment, it is slightly bad today to expose or predict the blackness of the project or the blackness of the objects, according to their, say, 14-day professional use. The city of Maribor with its surroundings as well as the Republic of Slovenia in all its smallness, unfortunately, geographically small, of course needs sports facilities, especially if we take into account our every thanks, when we are abroad or when we are home, that Slovenia is a university country, that Slovenia is a sports country. These projects, which are ahead of us, will, in the long term, allow us to lay the foundations of this project and similar projects in particular with regard to that commendable foundation, i.e. that Slovenia is a sports country. At the national party, we would like to see a majority or unanimous support within the framework of the National Assembly put forward for the organisation of the University of Maribor in winter 2011. We want the financial situation within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to be ensured in a timely manner, particularly in the sense that the city and, on the other hand, the Republic of Slovenia will be able to carry out the event with pride and, above all, successfully. In the national party, as we say, we will, of course, support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Willy Rezman will speak on behalf of Desus.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Let me say some thoughts on behalf of DeSUS, some of my own, and also of some representatives of the organizational committee. In opening, let me say that, with the great joy that comes from me that this university in Maribor should only receive support, there is growing fear in the opinion that even those who unconditionally signed under the letter of support - over 50% of the parliamentarians and parliamentarians of our National Assembly were in agreement that support should be given - so, I am concerned that those of us who were most active in gathering support will finally have to have great concerns. Because we see that the judge thing is now slightly different than our ambitions. Our ambitions were very simple - to achieve, say, plebiscite support for the 2011 University under the name Maribor, to happen in Pohorje, in Maribor, in Russian, in the surrounding cities, and not to move it far around where it would fit in with different ambitions, interests or needs. The 2011 University project is not a project to rehabilitate some missed moves in the past. At least some of us will resist that. We're thrilled to have Planica rehabilitated, but not by these means. We are thrilled that it is also built elsewhere in Slovenia. All Slovenia needs investment, all Slovenia needs new jobs, all Slovenia needs recognition, both in Europe, in the world, across our borders, but some parts of Slovenia need further incentives. Maribor, Podravje, Pohorje, Ruše and some others who are active in this regard. And not only because they have been affected in the past by many economic and other stresses, but also because they have started, from the very beginning they have been active in terms of gaining affection for this to happen at our end of Slovenia. Let me say that I already asked our Prime Minister about this months ago to talk about it, and that he gave his personal consent in principle, and that we did not speak in a word about how we would crush it in Slovenia. Let me say that we have also spoken the same way with the minister who is responsible for this department, Dr. Beast, who was also in favour of this idea. We haven't even talked in a word about how to break it down as much as possible, how to sow it in Slovenia. Even those Members and Members who signed a letter of support, which I thank all of them sincerely, did not discuss how they would move or take advantage of existing facilities at different ends of Slovenia, but talked about supporting faster regional development. Rapider regional development also means, among other things, that in those regions that have been somewhat retrograde in the past, there is more investment than usual in trying to attract European funds and not only the costs of organising the event. And if you look at the calculations, you will see that if Maribor and the surrounding area gave up the jumping center, the ice halls, and some other trinkets, there would be almost nothing left on this maribor end. Look at the numbers written down. There would be other costs, expenses for the organisation. If it were just to borrow the name and brand of Maribor with its surroundings, I don't know, the Golden Foxes or something like that, you've accumulated costs and won nothing, then of course, it would be ours, so those who were most active and for that, supporting slightly under question. Therefore, when I believe you will continue to support this project plebiscitefully, I would like to ask you to make a contribution to the stated policy of the Government and the National Assembly on faster regional development here and there, too, to the real implications. In order for this to happen in the environments that have prepared it, which are willing to invest in it, which are necessary for these funds, domestic and foreign, as well as for partnerships, the public and private sectors. When the DeSUS Group supports this proposal when it also asks for a week's support for this proposal, it also asks that we stop working with these means to remedy some mistakes from the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Hwauc to the floor, on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u57	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support the application to organise the 25th Winter University in Maribor in 2011. It is a project which, in our opinion, has all the national importance of Slovenia and is very important for the promotion and visibility of Slovenia, especially its north-eastern work, which will successfully offer new opportunities in the field of sports and tourism infrastructure, the development of sport and tourism. We can expect long-term beneficial effects on the development of the wider region. We have already shown broad support for this project in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Finally, on a good day and a half, we chose the signatures of all the Members who were here at the time, and they were accessible, which is particularly gratifying, is that these signatures or those Members from all parts of Slovenia, which only indicates that we are aware that this is not just a local project, but that it is a project that is important for the whole of Slovenia. What other reasons are there for supporting this candidacy in our parliamentary group? We are convinced that it is right that such an event or most of these activities take place where certain facilities already exist that are suitable for the execution of these individual sports types. Here, of course, we see not only Maribor or the Maribor Pohorje, but the entire Pohorje, with Areh, Rogla and Russian Pohorje, another building in Slovenia that was suitable for execution. At the same time, of course, it does not seem reasonable and good for us to crush the event and actually lose meaning or Maribor's importance as a carrier to make it an event that would be fragmented across Slovenia. The other thing that seems important to us is that urbanisation of such an event, where there will be more than 4 thousand participants for 14 days and where more than 10 thousand visitors can be expected, is certainly a very demanding undertaking. Maribor or Pohorski organizers have many experiences in this area not only with Alpine skiing competitions but also elsewhere. They have a rich tradition. Let me also remind you that this tradition also dates back to jumping sport, a tour of three countries started in Slovenia in Beijing. The important thing is that the candidate is the place where the university is. It is a sport game of students, it is a university and Maribor, as far as this is concerned, it also fulfils this condition. It also seems important to us that the construction or modernisation of some of the necessary facilities is largely in harmony with the development plans of the city of Maribor itself, the University of Maribor, as well as the municipalities of Ruše, which, of course, gives some assurance that these facilities will not only be built to serve the purpose of those few days when this great sport competition takes place, but that they will be held as much as possible and in their function even after this event is over. It also seems important to us that much of the funds for the construction of sports and tourism infrastructure can be expected or, with great certainty, we expect to obtain them from the European funds as well. With the participation of the country, local communities and other investors, in particular some tourism organisations that have a great interest in this event, this will be a very large contribution to the wider region and to the acceleration of development, at the same time it will be a step towards eliminating the relatively large differences already mentioned among the regions in Slovenia. It will also be one of the projects that will mean some new wind in the sails, a new life, a new start. We are convinced that Maribor deserves more than a few shopping centres and a very valuable Lent festival. Such an event is certainly a good opportunity to start a new development cycle. In addition, we are convinced that the construction of some sports facilities, which are not currently available in this area, will create conditions for the development of other sports industries that have not been able to develop so far in this area. The Maribor region itself as a centre with a high concentration of people represents the great potential of potential athletes, but at least in certain areas today they have not had the opportunity to participate in sports. Finally, we estimate that the chances of success of this candidacy are relatively large, but also, if it fails, there will be no major negative financial consequences due to this candidacy. We know there are some concerns about financing construction, locations and so on, but I think there will be an opportunity for us to talk when we receive encouraging good news from Torin on 10 January 2007 that we have succeeded in this candidacy. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will be pleased to support the candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Petek has the following word on behalf of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u59	Colleagues, colleagues! Mr. Kugovnik, President of the University Sports Union, Mayor of the Municipality of Maribor, Rector of the University of Maribor Dr. Radonjič! In the LDS, we will give a brief report, as in the Group of Members, there was little doubt that this project would not be supported. In the LDS Club, we join, as it seems, all political parties in submitting a nomination for the organisation of the University of Maribor 2011 Winter University and in supporting or co-financing the event with State funds. The candidate for the University of Maribor, I firmly believe, the headquarters of the future province, we conclude on these foundations today, and also the other co-organizers, has experienced in the activities so far and the support of many institutions that are or will be participating in the event. Let me list some of them: all three Slovenian universities, Ljubljana, Primorska, Maribor, City Council of Maribor and Celje, Ruše Municipality, Austrian City of Gradec, Olympic Committees of Slovenia, Student Organization of Slovenia and, last but not least, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Home Committee for Culture, Education and Sport. So a wide range of those who think and support this sporting event. If Slovenia's candidacy succeeds, Slovenia will perform the second largest World Sports Event in Slovenia, after the Olympics, which bears this primate of the greatest. In the event of a successful candidacy, the city of Maribor, as the venue of the event, will be recorded in history and will join the current and future organisers. Let me list some of them: Zakopane - Poland, Trbiz - Italy, Innsbruck - Austria, Torino - Italy. So I counted the nearest cities, all very famous for sports events and a prominent position in sports circles. With the organization of the university, we will allow Slovenian athletes-students to intervene in the local field, ski resort, ski slopes, ski slopes, racetracks and other events in other venues after good ranking and we firmly believe in medals. The direct and indirect effects of the event will be important both for the Republic of Slovenia and especially for those cities and places that will be organised, headed by the University of Maribor. The expected effects both in the area of the promotion of Slovenia, the economic effects, the restoration and construction of sports facilities and other university infrastructures, the creation of new jobs, the promotion of young people for sport are such that there is little doubt about support. The experience of previous organisers, to mention only the closest, is the Trbiz or Visarje, which we know more about by Slovenian name, so there is experience that also strengthens our belief that the event needs to be supported. An important element in assessing the eligibility of the candidature is the fact that it is in most locations, but we know that it is Maribor with a narrower surroundings and Pohorje as a whole, because the games or other activities will already be or are planned to build still missing sports facilities, and that the construction of infrastructure remains in the plan. We know those who live in Maribor or in these cities. Maribor also has a top-notch group of organizers, which makes it even less questionable that the University City of Maribor is a suitable organizer. We believe that, for these reasons, the costs of the organisation will also be lower. This fact also excuses the candidacy and our positive decision. The LDS Club supports and wants to welcome candidates for the winter university in Maribor in 2011.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The latter will present the position of the Social Democrats, Mr Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we support the candidate for the 25th Winter University in Maribor in 2011. In the light of the provisions of the Sports Act, it is necessary to obtain prior agreement from the National Assembly in such a step, which I suppose will be voted by this High Council unanimously or by at least a large majority of Members and Members. This will be an important event not only for our country but also for the wider region. Therefore, there is no need to overemphasize the inclusion or participation of some neighbouring countries, such as Austria or even Italy. Universities are the second largest world sports event, according to the number of countries and participants, so we are talking about them as student Olympics. After the 2002 World Chess Olympics in Bled, we are looking forward to a new major international sport competition in the Republic of Slovenia, which will be attended by athletes and athletes, students and students from 141st National University Sports Organizations operating today within the framework of the International University Sports Association. The last university was attended by 55 countries and about 4,000 athletes and escorts. According to the Slovenian University Sports Association, however, the university is expected to be record-breaking in all respects in 2011. There is a need for consensus at national level to be reached for the organisation and implementation of such a major event. Here I am referring to the participation of the Slovenian University Sports Union, institutions at state level, in particular governments and competent ministries up to all three Slovenian universities of the student organisation of local communities, the Olympic Committee and national sports industries. However, our economy, particularly in the field of tourism, can play an important role here. This, of course, will also be an important financial contribution, which is not sufficiently detailed in the material for this point of the agenda of the National Assembly. Already on the Sports Committee, a representative of the Government explained that the State could contribute to the organisation up to a maximum of 30% of the total resources envisaged. I am convinced, however, that, with the cooperation of local communities, economies and other international financial resources such as the European Development Funds, it will be possible to build all infrastructure and to carry out the university successfully. The effects of the organisation of the winter university will be multilayered, from promotion and economic to the acquisition of new sports and university infrastructure to the creation of new jobs. In particular, we can count on the great developmental importance for the country and the individual areas where sports competitions will take place. We must not forget, however, that all the acquisitions around the new sport infrastructure will be an incentive for a more active way of spending free time among young people for a healthier life, as it has proved in practice that universities are those types of projects where young generations are systematically focused on sport over the years, and the conditions for sport for the entire schooling youth are improving. The Group of Social Democrats supports Maribor and Slovenia's candidacy for the 25th Winter University in 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u62	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The first one has the word, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Guests of today's debate. I am very pleased that today we will be able to accept support for the organization of the 25th University of Winter in Maribor. I'm glad that I'm somehow extremely attached to Maribor. There I attended high school and, in fact, during the 10 years of parliamentary action, I somehow feel like a Member who cares and has to take care of Maribor's affairs as well. Just as we supported the establishment of a medical university in Maribor with all our efforts, so of course I also support this event, which is the second largest sports event in the sports world, the most prestigious for the Olympic Games. Of course, I am glad that this has happened now, at this time, that there was an emergency condition only with the government of Janez Janša, that Maribor can finally run for important projects that will contribute to the development of Maribor across the board. However, in order to make full use of this project in international sports activities and in the university sports public, it is, of course, necessary to ensure adequate synergies. I must be honest that unfortunately, the fact that Maribor has been lagging behind in the past period is unfortunate. It is generally known and also in this hall it has been repeatedly said that Mariborians wonder how Celje can progress in all areas, in areas of sports infrastructure and Maribor is lagging behind. With all due respect to former Member of Parliament and now to the mayor of Mr Sovic, who in my opinion was a significantly better Member than the mayor, because there could be account for his verbal ability, but the place, such as this project, of course, also needs managerial skills. Sure, I'll do it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u64	Mr Jerovšek, we are not discussing Mayor Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u65	Of course, I must also point out to the public at this point that the successful organisation of this project depends on several matters. When we supported the Members of this candidacy, or before that, when there was a speech, I was also surprised that in this national assembly some opposed the guarantee for the construction of motorways, where the largest share is in the Maribor area, and even the future mayoral candidate opposed it. While we are all aware that without road infrastructure such an event is not possible at all. This is a necessary prerequisite, building road infrastructure [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u66	Mr Jerovšek, we have now gone to the third area. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u67	in the vicinity of Maribor, for the organization of the university. [[...]] It seems to me that I am obliged to draw attention to these matters, which are a little wider, which I must be aware of before the public is faced with an important decision: whether, when the government has supported this project, this project will also in fact be carried out in favour of Maribor and the whole of Slovenia. At the last celebrations of the 15th anniversary of Slovenia, we saw what political will means, how it is possible to organize in the direction of the promotion of Slovenia, such as these celebrations. We've come across an extraordinary response from people. Before there was a political will, when it was somehow ashamed that Slovenia was an independent state, the market of the Republic was always empty, under the previous authority. It was loaded now, and so it is here. If there is a political will where there is will, there is also a path, and that must be reiterated today. And I think that at this point we must take advantage of this government's will to offer Maribor in some way with our support a hand so that it can actually carry out its development projects through this project in the future. Not only Maribor, I am sure that it is possible to do a lot of things in Slovenia. I'm not that careful here. From now on, I think we need to do everything we can to get this project organised. Because if disputes start now within Slovenia, then in this committee that will decide on the adoption of the candidacy, we will not succeed. I therefore plead that we do everything in public, both by political, sports and organisational means, that the candidacy will be successful and that we will continue with this project Maribor and Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I suggest we go from the mayor through the infrastructure and celebrate back on a proposal of agreement, if you don't mind. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u69	I'll try to get back to Winter University 2011. I would like to remind you that not only the university, but also the candidacy for it is important primarily from a sports and economic perspective, not so much because we have the autumn local elections, because the university will only be successful in 2011, if we succeed in this, because of the candidacy. For those of us who understand what is really going on here, it doesn't matter what is actually going to happen from our basic intentions. We certainly know that this is a very important incentive for the development of sport, resulting in the development of health, resulting in the development of young people, resulting in the development of colleges, the development of student homes and everything else, i.e. for the promotion of the University of Maribor as a kind of gravitational force in that end of Slovenia. We know that this is closely linked to the economic potential, in particular to those talking about it also in Slovenia's development strategy, that one of the first priorities should be encouraged by the tourism economy, because we have some organisational advantages here, because we have certain natural and other comparative advantages here, and also because the intention of those local communities gravitating to Maribor and Pohorje is precisely in the sense that the former industrial power, which has dried up in recent years or decades, is complemented by some other economic activity. And this way, we have a chance to add some stone to it. Of course, it is very important that we continue to stress this, in particular where the development of the regions is slightly weaker and where the differences between the development of the centre and the surrounding regions are increasing, we stress this importance of regional development. In addition to this, the university of students or the 2011 Winter University in Maribor and the surrounding area can help greatly. If this event were to break down, then this would not be bad for the promotion of Slovenia, Slovenia would also be promoted. It is also likely that this would be good for the promotion of sport in general, and it would be slightly worse for the economic potential of the environment that is the most committed to this event. Therefore, we stress this, not because we would be selfish, because there is a potential for this, because there is a need and because there are people there who are willing to work for it and not just attach themselves to it after the train is already running.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u70	Thank you for your discussion. I also thank Vice-President Pavlich for his leadership so far. I give my word to Ambassador Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u71	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to give my own support to the project so that Maribor will finally have an important function, and this is how to perform the winter university in Maribor in 2011. I would like to point out here that I have also been very interested in accompanying only the meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport and that I am very pleased that this proposal has received the maximum support of all political parties. This means that more or less all Members of Parliament and all Members are aware that Maribor has the opportunity and that Maribor needs to be given the opportunity to get this university and to take it out. Many times it was said at Maribor's expense, either with regard to centralisation, which is present in our country, or with regard to regionalisation, or with regard to some other sports, cultural, any events. For many years we have been able to follow, even in those days when the Lent Festival is held in Maribor, which is not only Slovenia, we could say that it is Central European and is very important for the Styrian capital itself. I am confident that there will be sufficient wisdom in the National Assembly today to adopt the appropriate proposal and to support the project of the Winter University of Maribor in 2011. Maribor has the potential for some infrastructure facilities, and all other facilities, which would be urgently needed in the city of Maribor itself, can meet the needs of the winter university in the immediate region. And allow me to thank the little man who also comes from Maribor, who was in some way an instigator and brought this idea to the very city of Maribor or even Slovenia, is the city councilman of his colleague Pučnik, who is also present today in this national assembly here on the balcony. And once again, Comrade Pučnik, thank you for your efforts. We also talked a lot about this topic in those days when we traveled together through the European capitals and, together with the rest of the team, Pučnik lobbyed well in the European Union and I hope that we will succeed in supporting the national assembly, supporting the government, supporting some other institutions to get this opportunity for the city of Maribor. Thank you very much again to all those who have made any effort to make Maribor the city of the University in 2011.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u72	Thank you, Comrade Kangler. Before I give the floor to Mr Pojbič, allow me only to remind the applicant once again that he can be included in the debate at any time within the time declared. As it is said, Member Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor! I will be very happy to support the candidacy for the organization of the University of Maribor in winter 2011. I am convinced that the organisation of such an event represents a great opportunity for the country, the city of Maribor with its surroundings to promote, rebuild and build sport and university infrastructure, while at the same time creating many positive economic and other effects, which are of particular importance for the future of faster development of backward or less developed areas in the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the Republic of Slovenia. That is why I am very moved to the center of this candidacy by the right city Maribor with its surroundings. I also think it is right to say that the city of Maribor in the last few years would need a substantial number of such important projects that could be put aside for those Slovenian cities that are developing very well and rapidly. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! As we can see, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia fully supported this candidacy. I also believe that this proposal will receive absolute support in the National Assembly, because in this case it is an all-Slovenian project that foresees very strong, long-term positive effects. In order not to be too long, I must point out that I am extremely glad that there has finally been a change of power in this country, which also has a hearing to the environment from which I come, for which it was not possible to find obedience in the former authorities. I am very happy to support this proposal with great joy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u74	Thank you for your discussion. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Anton Kokalj has the floor. [[He's not here.]] The word is Christian Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleague, Mayor of Maribor City Municipality with colleagues, respected on the Tribune, a nice greeting to colleagues and colleagues! The University of Winter Maribor 2011 is certainly considered to be an MP, the mayor, and a sportsman by soul and by profession certainly an exceptional opportunity for Slovenia, an exceptional opportunity for Styria and for the capital of the Styria area, an opportunity that can also at this time prepare the organisation and everything that belongs to it, especially that Members, who have this opportunity to give full support and agreement to this important story for Slovenia today, but also because we speak a lot in this national council on decentralisation, more consistent regional development. Even in this area it can be a good gesture, a good traveller, that not everything and every story in Ljubljana, but that something can also happen in Maribor, in Gorenjska and elsewhere. And I think that this wisdom will prevail today in the National Assembly, that we will all say unanimously, because in the last days, weeks, we have agreed on a number of things. And that was what I thought was extremely positive as a Member of Parliament. Today we have the opportunity to reaffirm here in the National Assembly, to think seriously about these matters, as I mentioned earlier, and to give Maribor this opportunity, together with the government, to support this, because I believe that even after this story is successfully carried out, Maribor will be able to need these facilities, because the end of the sport is what I am, and I believe that many of you, especially our young people, can increase this opportunity in our habits, so that they can use their leisure activities also after the university for their own good and for their environment. Sport is the best answer to many of today's negative youth issues that we face daily. That is why I will be happy to support this proposal, and I wish you, the distinguished mayor, and the city of Maribor, and all that you will succeed in this area to the best of your ability. You have proved this with your Golden Fox, where it is an excellent organization both in Slovenian and European space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u76	Thank you. My word, Mag. Franca Capudra. G's not in the hall. I'm asking you to excuse me at the same time. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I'm in the hall. Nice hello to you all! The university is an event which, I think, is very important and which brings to the country where this event takes place, a large number of visitors, both the contestants and the viewers, the journalists and the accompanying staff. Of course, the audience’s visit to such an event is not like the audience’s visit to the biggest contests. And the media response is probably not the same as in major international competitions. However, I am convinced that even if this media response is not the same, more attention should be paid to this project for other reasons. I think that investment in such a project is an investment in the future, and for several reasons, I would mention two in particular. First of all, this is an investment in sports and tourism infrastructure, which is also mentioned in the presentation prospectus of the applicants. I very much agree that this can be an ideal opportunity to rebuild and expand the existing infrastructure that will be necessary for the implementation of the competitions at the university. Of course, this is also an opportunity to develop and expand the existing infrastructure for suitable competitions. At the same time, again and again, I also have a dilemma over this infrastructure, which is better, or to restore old infrastructure in places where it already works, where people around whom we acquire competitors are gathered, or to build new infrastructure in new locations. Of course, I cannot pass through this jumping centre, which is envisaged within this university and which is supposed to be built under Pohorje. The estimated value of the investment is 2 billion Slovenian tolars. Personally, it seems necessary to consider whether these funds are intended for the rehabilitation or modernisation of the already existing jumping, Nordic centres in Slovenia, for example in Planica, or for the construction of a new Nordic centre under Pohorje. As already mentioned by colleague Uhanov, in 2013 the World Cup will be held in Planica, which will also require modernisation of the facilities. Here I would just like to give my thought that I strongly agree with those who say that it is necessary to have infrastructure to develop high-quality sport. However, for the development of high-level sport, it is also necessary to have backdrops, especially young competitors, who we know are developing right around jump centres, which are in principle much smaller. Two jumpers, 90 - and 120 - foot - long [90 - 120 m], are designed to be built here, but we know that pioneers and, say, boys up to 14, 15 years of age are jumping on smaller devices, and these are devices around 50 meters away. And if we don't build these things together, then I don't think we've done anything. We can only build a monument for a while. That's probably not what any of us want. Similarly, it is possible to build an ice room. I am sure that Slovenia is so small that logistics in the context of the University competitions should not be any problem, but even at the time when we would be moving, although perhaps it is a bit difficult for them to learn about the beauty of Slovenia, we could also get to know other parts of Slovenia, as if all the competitions took place in one place. The second reason I would mention is why this is an investment in the future. The university is an ideal opportunity to promote all Slovenia, not just the northeast part of our country. The University should be the project of all Slovenia, not just the project of the northeast part of our country. I think it is necessary to use this project to promote all Slovenia, and therefore I fully support this project. I wish the organizers great luck in choosing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u78	Thank you, you. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Franz Pukšič. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues. Nice greetings to the guests. Personally, I don't think it's a decisive project or a position that someone takes or acquires. The most important thing in all these stories is people. It stands or falls on people. They are able or unable to organize and carry out something. Unfortunately, that part of Trojans on the other side often resented what he was missing, what was not done, but it was not that the places or conditions on the other side of the Trojan were worse, but, in my opinion, it was more that the people who came from that side to the center, many times when they took over the Trojans, had received a softly bent beam instead of a hard spine. That is why, of course, I am so much more pleased that at last there is also a good proposal from some capable people on the table and that he has seen, which is also reflected in the discussion by other Members from across the country, one good project to support. That means, a good idea, a good project can get the right place. Otherwise I would not define myself, like my predecessor, directly with regard to the financial construction of the centre, or all that yes or all that, I think this is a matter for discussion at another level. However, I am sure that if we have any other sports centre in Pohorje, it can only contribute, both in the short and the long term. The importance of this project is, in my opinion, not only in the economic, sporting, tourist and promotional fields of the whole of Slovenia, but also in the field of engagement and interest of young people in all areas, both educational and sports, and for a slightly longer period, but the objective that is attainable to them. Perhaps we could also say this: more sports of less alcohol, more sports of less drug addiction, and what I think is extremely important at this time, more sports of less traffic accidents on the roads that are happening. Sport will also increase the number of other accompanying events, and culture and cultural events will certainly come into this account, which will take place at the same time as this event. It also seems important to me that all of this will have a positive impact on young people from a long-term perspective, not only in these activities, but in gaining a variety of experiences. After all, we have been in the European Union for some time now, and these experiences will also help them to continue their employment and wider integration. At the same time it will gain, I am sure, Styria, along with the lower Podravje, Prekmurjem to a greater extent, but of course the whole country, because if one place or part of the country acquires both on infrastructure facilities and on content, which is more important than infrastructure then the whole country gets. This time, it is possible that Maribor, as such, can follow some others, as has already been mentioned today, for example Celje is a shining example in the last few years, which could be an example to many a larger and smaller city. The light case, as my colleague Moze tells me, and I will not speak specifically to Dester, but I will certainly support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u80	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Ljubo Germić.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u81	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear guests in today's session! I will be happy to support this idea, which we will decide today, because, as a sportsman all over the soul from young legs, I am very pleased with such initiatives to organise the largest sports events and at the same time to participate as many Slovenians as possible in such activities. It seems very important to me to draw attention to one fact, because six years of my work here in Parliament has often been on the agenda of a project. When we discussed various regional developments, it was also often possible to hear that Maribor himself was often responsible for the fate he was in and that he was coming to the National Assembly with too few ambitious projects. Today, there is a very ambitious project for which we Members and Members of Parliament today have the opportunity to confirm it, to enable something that already has a continuity. I would apologize to all these Members and Members who today say that we are living at that end of Slovenia, that is in Styria, only with this government got the first lamp. I should have warned them that the Fala power plant has been on this end for a long time and that enlightenment on how we want to live there did not come only with this government. Therefore, I am sure that a more thorough consideration will find that a number of things have already been done in this area. Of course, I can agree with all the topics that you are saying are Slovenian projects. I can't even imagine it as if it was the promotion of Slovenia, of course, but I can't imagine it differently in the sense that the carrier of these activities will be the city of Maribor with its surroundings. I had the opportunity to see different world sports centers and to set Norway as an example. Norway had already had more Olympics, not just Universities, and they were always built in other cities for one simple reason. Because they have found in distributing locations opportunities, which we are talking about, that there will be multiple effects of this university, that will of course be on a certain tradition that Maribor certainly has, because we do not have another Golden Fox, but we have a rich tradition of the Golden Fox, we have a rich tradition of developing sports recreational tourism in Pohorje. That is why I want to develop such sports centres and disperse them throughout Slovenia. And of course this initiative, which was designed by the organisational committee together with the university, with the student population, with the city of Maribor, with various municipalities in the vicinity of Maribor, of course we see as one development strategy that only builds up with this university. So the road map, which for several years has also had the consequences of a certain investment, will only be upgraded with this university. And that's why I don't think it's in any way problematic for this environment to get a jumping sports center. I would like to remind you that Pecrska bittera and I also had a baker on one side, where the sun was brighter over the year, but that we also had a more focused jumper, for which we were happy in the crowds to take a look at this sport, which means that also a hopping tradition in this area has a long tradition and we would like to restore it with these projects here. I would point to just two aspects, just briefly, as has been said today, sport also strengthens people's health and today we are saying that, of course, poor nutrition, insufficient movement causes great costs on the health segment. And let the promotion of the university also be the promotion of sport for everyone. And the last thing I would like to point out, however, is that the university will have the opportunity to be able to even at the university, even in the entire school vertical, to talk about sport as one of the virtues or as a value, because it seems to me that the university and preparations for the university will be able to talk about the whole of sport redefining, because we want the university to be the success that I am convinced of; convinced as Styrian, as a Slovenian, where we have been proving ourselves to be very successful organisers over the past decades. And, of course, that is why I want this proposal to be concluded today with the support of the organisation of the 2011 Winter University in Maribor, supported by consensus and, of course, by the organisers and all of us, Slovenes and Slovenes, I want us to participate actively in this and prove ourselves good organisers, as good hosts and as top athletes, where we will achieve the highest results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u82	Thank you. I call to the word of Ambassador Joseph Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished guests, welcome. In opening, I would like to say that I will support the previous agreement to organise this outstanding sporting event. I would like to acknowledge and congratulate the hardworking and loving people, the Mariborians in particular, that they have hoped to bite into such a project of global dimensions. Of course, we, who are geographically closer to Maribor than the Ljubljanans, today, seem to be better off with the word. However, I would like to point out that I am pleased that we have this topic on today's agenda, and I am sure that you are the very hearty people who are proposing this project, because only loving people and enthusiasts are able to achieve such great goals, people who do not ask what the kilometer is today and what the overtime or night supplement is. In my brief contribution, I would like to say this and join the debate and those who said it was a Slovenian project, not just a Maribor project, although it will be written - I hope that we will all succeed together, that is, in Turin - although it will be written by the 25th University of Maribor in winter 2011, I am only calling on all the organisers to in some way also follow the principle of connecting Slovenia. If I'm talking about connecting Slovenia, this is where I think about Planica. Planica is a world brand, especially as regards ski jumps, even more as regards ski flights. And perhaps it would only suggest that those disciplines relating to ski jumps would be organized on the Planica. I am not opposed to the restoration of the Pekrska bittera, which is also a brand in slightly smaller dimensions. But maybe it would just suggest a maximum rational approach when you decide to build new buildings. I conclude with a sincere wish of the organizer and once again with a congratulations card, and first I want a lot of happiness in Turin and then on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u84	Thank you. Member Rudolf Moge has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u85	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Dearly beloved to this session, colleagues and colleagues, a very nice greeting! Initially, I say that I am not a mayoral candidate, that I am essentially a Member representing all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and that is why I will speak as a Slovenian, not as a citizen of Maribor. But I do notice that in recent times in the National Assembly, every reading, there's always a song called "My Is Better Than Yours" by always adding to this song. Kitice added to this song by my colleague Marijan Pojbič, who is not here now, who said that the previous authority had no hearing for Maribor, had no hearing for the university, had no hearing for sports, but this can be spoken by someone who does not even two years of status in the National Assembly, because if he had been, he would have seen that the previous authority in Maribor had built a university sports center, hall, Ljubljana and Koper did not have it. That the former authorities had built a bunch of student homes, which even this time in Ljubljana had not built, that they had built a bunch of new colleges, a bunch of new programs, that the Golden Foxes had given when they asked them to do these things, half a million then German brands, because inflation was so great - the cheap thing wasn't, without 10% being taken away from what they demanded. However, we have now come to this from this government, because we are not only talking about a transitional agreement to apply for the organisation of 25 winter universities in Maribor, but also that we have an agreement on funding from state funds. But here this government has gone from 56%, as was said, down to 39%. Now, whoever didn't have a say in these matters, you can decide for yourself. I don't want to, because I wouldn't be smoking it if my friend didn't say what he said. However, I would like to say that I have been fortunate enough to have worked with prominent people in life in the preparation of sports competitions in Maribor as Vice-President of the Executive Council at the Golden Fox, as Chairman of the Sport and Higher Education Committee or Education Committee in the Republic of Slovenia, and I can assure you that I know what I am saying, that there are a lot of excellent infrastructure in Maribor, not only sports, but also accommodations, and that there is a good organisation in Maribor in carrying out such a demanding project as winter games or the winter university. Politicians usually say that it is important who speaks, how he speaks, and what he speaks, the latter being the least important. I tell you, however, that now that we are listening to each other and we are singing out that we will all support this project, that it is justified and that the objective and the design, as expressed, are justified. Look at what my colleague Capuder said about becoming a monument for a while. When we were back years ago, I was a little older, in Sarajevo we set up winter Olympics - we all know what happened to that infrastructure. Even now, it is a monument to a certain period of time, and only a little of it has been left or has been used because of circumstances that later occurred. As chairman of the Sports Committee, I also came to the dilemmas when I was repeatedly challenged, in discussions when we prepared the chess Olympics in Bled, that there was no infrastructure there, let's spread it all over Slovenia, because we had a lot of these halls, but we thought it was right then and we supported in one voice all the Members to build it and the Ministry of Education and Sport built a huge hall at the shortest possible time, and this hall is not a monument for some time, but if it is a monument for some time, it is a good monument for some time, because there is something going on in this room. And to imagine Bled's offer now without this hall, that offer would have been extremely squandered. I myself performed several times with our parliamentary band in this hall in front of a few thousand people, and I must say that there was a unique atmosphere and when I played, I also saw through mathematical eyes how much money was flowing at such a moment. I would like to say, at the end of this, that I admire you, your distinguished delegation, the three-headed one, that despite these problems on the way, you have decided that you have set yourself this heavy backpack with which you will reach your goal. In doing so, I wish you good luck, especially with the first goal to skip the first obstacle, the international acquisition of the project. On the other hand, I wish you good luck swinging between the administrative carts when you go towards the goal. I believe that today all Members of this matter will be supported. I wouldn't start with those who aren't in this spirit of consent, but if someone pulls my tongue, of course I will. Once again, good luck at the end and goodbye at the University 25 in Maribor 2011.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u86	Thank you. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! In the beginning, I was hoping we wouldn't even remember any of Sarajevo, but good. I personally support this idea and this project for several reasons. One of these is certainly the promotion of Slovenia, because it is the best promotion. Also for the promotion of sports among young people. The fact is, sport is much better than a lot of drinking and drugs. Finally, this is also a promotion of healthy life in general. The fact is that certain sports industries are already developed in this area, for example, Pohorje with certain infrastructure, here I think Maribor as the center of this. This infrastructure will sometimes need to be restored, re-established, restored. The fact is that this is also a great promotion of Maribor itself as such and sports in Maribor. Personally, like my colleague before me, Jerovšek, I supported important investments in Maribor. Comrade Jerovšek has counted some of them, and I will no longer list them. I supported them despite the fact that I will be assigned to another region by regionalisation, but this is not an obstacle for me because it is a project that is important for Slovenia. In doing so, it would be good to have a strong economic activity in places where there will be competitions, which, of course, could be behind such projects. I'm going to mention one of these centers, this is Rogla, which has an extremely strong economic backdrop, and this also has a successful backdrop that doesn't work with losses, but with profits. And backwaters in Unior and the entire congregation of the congregation of the Viennese. In this area there is very good running infrastructure for skiing and alpine skiing. Therefore, I think it would be right for Rogla to make a successful contribution to this Slovenian project. Last but not least, I'll mention another reason. This area, which is extremely economically successful and strong, is also a major taxpayer. We're in the system today, and even in the world, it's not going without money. And that also means that taxpayers can say something. This project of the University of Maribor as a centre has come to life now that Slovenia also has strong economic growth, which has a tendency to increase, which means that the country is also successful, that this government is also successful and that Slovenia, as such, as a result of good economic growth, can afford such a competition. We have a lot of wishes, but we can't afford much. However, according to Slovenia's performance, it is obvious that we can also afford a financial university, thereby improving infrastructure, and that is why I will support this project. In doing so, I would point out that the situation that should be at the competitions should also be taken into account. Here I am thinking mainly of snow, which must be there for more than a day, especially in those competitions that take place in the open and in the snow. We know where individual competitions belong, that above sea level is also established as a condition, because the atmosphere is heating up and where there was once six months of snow, today is a much shorter time. So here, I know, there will be no problem and I will also say my own consent for this prior agreement because I know that in Slovenia we have a lot of experience with sports events in the snow, especially in this pohorje region. Therefore, once again, I will vote in favour of this prior agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u88	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador William Trofenik. [[He's not in the hall.]] I give my word to Mr. Martin Mikolitch. [[He's not in the hall either.]] The following shall have the word of Ambassador Kvetka Zalokar Orazem, after the list of registered names. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Maybe I'll break this pre-election idiot Styrian with the surrounding area. Last but not least today you are mostly reaching out to Members from the end, which is logical and normal, but allow me to say that there is probably no one in this Chamber who would not support projects related to sport and sports infrastructure. This is clear and will also be my position on this. Nevertheless, I think that there are still some concerns to be said, but above all it is a matter for the future. Of course, I welcome a policy that is ambitious, as well as aspirations that favour sport and, in particular, progress in the field of sport infrastructure. However, I have doubts whether in the future we will equally support other sports environments and other sports industries in Slovenia, because the fact is that we cannot manage these things exclusively from the top down. But it's been observed lately. It is noted that in some ways the state wants to decide what, how much and where sport will happen, how much investment will be made, what will happen. And in this sense, my thoughts are justified today, according to my assessment, because not least I congratulate the Mariborians for actually coming before the Slovenian public in the last 14 days and also getting two major projects. I think he was selected for the football center of Slovenia a few days ago. The investment that will be built there certainly means that we are still talking about the university today and I think that there will be extremely large funds invested in Maribor by all taxpayers of Slovenia. For this reason, I expect that others, including others, will not be turned around by other industries and that others will not be affected by their ambitions by the state, in fact by the state with its decisions, because you believe such ambitions exist and are also in other environments. And it does not seem to me to mention that these adjustments will not only take place and exclusively through budgetary resources, but it is also increasingly evident that, in fact, some para-state companies, exclusive state-owned enterprises, are forcing only certain environments and forcing only certain clubs, if I say so. And in this sense, it seems to me that I am giving a warning here today, we are closely monitoring these things, very carefully, and we expect equal, scattered things to happen in Slovenia. Last but not least, the sponsoring funds of para-national companies are delegated by the state and we are careful to see what Telekom signs, what the Post Office of Slovenia signs, what Nova Credit Bank Maribor signs, what insurance companies do and so on. And here we must not allow things to be regulated from above down, but we must take the initiative and by doing so you will or will today express my support for this project. Absolutely! I am a great lover and supporter of sport, which is also daily and I want to prove with my work, but I expect this to be done in this way. Above all, I am sorry that today, in a way, I think, those who are not from the Styrian end, we are watching a pre-election show here, and I think it's kind of funny because we can monitor, who wants to attach a medal just to make an application. That January then won't matter how it's decided. After all, we know what candidacy means, and there will be a lot of effort. But at the conclusion of another little wit, one that has been a little more burdensome and busy lately. I am also talking about how the government reacts to what things, and here it has shown great support. I hope that it will not be necessary to organise any more "ajeznpondiades" in Slovenia in the future in order to get some 100 million for 640 unsecured railway crossings, for which there is still no funding available, and here we will need to think a little bit about a respected coalition, including something that will also be found to save human lives. But I'm talking about "ishenponiadi" that might be able to get these funds that they've been looking for for months and months and they haven't found them in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u90	Thank you for your discussion. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Thank you. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u91	Of course, it would be heretical, stupid and inappropriate not to support such a proposal, but we can only wish that those who will be involved in the lobbyist phase should make sure that this event also occurs, in the end, that we know that the organisational rights or rights to pay entry into this event are not small, are at the height of all these operating tables that we are currently trying to obtain. In short, I don't mind either, and I'm going to support this candidacy, regardless of whether I'm not gravitating geographically there and I'm not a candidate, but let me say something. Today it has been repeatedly said that Slovenia is a sports country, that we are a country of athletes. That's right, that's right. That's exactly what we've also seen and heard on Sunday night at a very welcome celebration on the 15th anniversary of the independence, when there was nothing else between the achievements of the Slovenian people, at least in the film work that we were given to those who were there, even those who were behind the television audience, we probably saw nothing but feats, I think there was nothing else in the field of sports: nothing about Jančar, nothing about Lipica, nothing about Liebach, nothing about Cvitkovic, nothing about Globokar, etc. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u92	Ambassador Shirtz, please stick to the subject we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u93	In this context, this concern for other events that Slovenia will have to deal with earlier than before 2012 is not so pronounced. 2008 We will preside over the European Union and the programme of investment in cultural events, or those that have been said many times today to send the name of Slovenia to the world and that it is not only in the domain of athletes, it is not produced. Also the competition or I will say conditionalisation or candidacy for the Slovenian capital in the field of culture, where Maribor's interests meet, once again Celje, possibly Ptuj and Ljubljana - it also has no network plan to show clearly what Slovenia's intentions are. But what I was about to say in the end, and what my colleague Moga had already warned, perhaps it was too quickly going through your ears, a big difference was made between what the organizers wanted when you turned to the government, and what the government said to you in this candidacy. The organizers wanted the Republic of Slovenia to finance this event in 56% of the share, but you got back the government's response to give only 39%, so you will have to cover up to 30% of the costs, not 15%, as you wanted when you applied for a candidate. What I'm saying is that, I'm going to say, the government has already sent you out here somehow, with a lot of support, but it's already tied you up with its cost-sharing of the scrotum.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u94	Thank you. To the word of Ambassador Aloys Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Mayor and everyone else. As I come from the end of Styria myself, I like this initiative and I am pleased that it has come to this and, of course, I can only hope that it will be successful, because today is just the first, I would say, relatively small step on this path. Although I am aware that the student university is not nearly the same as the Olympics or anything else, I would like to point out here that Maribor, as a Styrian metropolis in the past, lost a great deal in this country after independence. In Maribor a number of jobs and tourism have been abolished, which could certainly be accelerated in many ways, is one of the opportunities that can also have an impact on the greater impact and greater enforcement of this region in Slovenia itself. That is why, of course, this needs to be supported today. Members can draw attention to a number of needs on this occasion, even if you want railway crossings, which are a particular problem as unprotected and need to be tackled and, of course, protected and equipped in the right way, but I do not think that today is an opportunity to talk about all of this, but today is an opportunity for all of us to support this issue together and that we are helping those who are trying to do so on this path. Of course, what will be the financial cut at the end of the day is a very topical question, as long as this is accepted by the government, it is obvious that it will also have to provide adequate resources within the budget, in particular to help ensure that an appropriate proportion of the European funds are also used for this purpose. So I will be happy to support this proposal today, not because of the upcoming elections, but because Maribor gets something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u96	Thank you. Member Srečko Hvauc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I'm not running for mayor myself, and I'd like to ask that you don't take my performance as a pre-election show, as I've heard before. I could say a lot about railway crossings, and I will also abstain from these comments. But the only thing I'm going to say is that the transitions to the Depala village haven't been since this year's pre-election year, but quite a long time ago. However, if we return to the agenda, then I would like to say with satisfaction that, according to my project of Maribor's candidacy and the region and Ruš, a well-prepared project is well-coordinated among all the actors involved in this candidacy, and as we can see, it also has very broad support and I am sure that, as such, it also has great opportunities for us to succeed in the end. Of course, I would argue with those who see problems in building individual sports facilities on the site around Maribor, if we have facilities on other locations that need to be updated a little bit, what has been transported in the past and we will cash in so much and so much money, we will act rationally in the short term. But, on one occasion, I would not have been offended in Planica, said that jumping sport in Slovenia would not have been developed as it is, would not have achieved such success if we had a super jump center just in Planica. The fact that we have a network of these jumpers in Slovenia, we also have to thank that we have received from this wider base a selection of some, one very good set of these contestants. And Maribor has a tradition of jumping sports, in Maribor we had a jumper in Beijing Mustard, we had a bunch of some good games, and I don't see any special reasons that this sport in the good of the entire jumping sport in Slovenia would not even start to develop again at the Maribor end. Whether we need a 5 or 10 meters longer or a shorter jumper, there's probably going to be a lot of speech after we make the run. And one more thing. I agree that these games will be a very good promotion for the whole of Slovenia, absolutely, even for the region, even for the city of Maribor. However, I am disturbed by some subtony that I feel, I feel a little bit "fosher" as we say that it will now be in Maribor, that this region will have more than the other end of Slovenia and so on, and then I will be a little bit caught up in it, and I would ask the question of what the promotion, investment, investment, investment had Styria or Maribor when we had the peak of OSCE, the top of NATO in Ljubljana, and what will Maribor and Styria have in that we will also chair the European Union over time. I hope that then the colleagues and colleagues who are concerned today that one piece of Slovenia might get a little bit more will also have a hearing in the opposite direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u98	Thank you. Before I give my word to the next person on the list of applicants, allow me to invite all Members and Members who are in the lobby or in their premises to join us, because the vote is on the contrary and we will move shortly to a vote on the motion for a decision. As we say, we continue with the next debater, that is mag. Milan M. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I think that today's debate has shown how something is being done in Slovenia. If the opposition had proposed this, I doubt it would have been accepted. However, since the Slovenian University Sports Association proposed this very meaningfully, it has experienced and experienced full support. Of course I'll support that. I will support such a proposal for a decision of the National Assembly because I think that support for the initiative launched in the Slovenian University Sports Association should be given to Slovenia running for the 25th University of Maribor 2011. And as can be seen from the prepared material, the fundamental organisers have approached this activity quite correctly and appropriately. What I miss a little is a more appropriate complement to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, as a financier, I would like to point out that when you are coordinated with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is important to determine which ministry will and how much will contribute to this. Almost half of these are: government, education, sport, economy, higher education, science, technology, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and ultimately the Ministry of the Interior. And already this additional decision adopted by the mother labour body shows that the Ministry of the Interior already wants to have a special exception and a specific budget item. I think it would absolutely be worth supporting today. However, I do not understand why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia says that in the end the organiser himself will submit an accurate report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I think that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should be in the interest of giving a clear justification first for how it will participate in this project, how it itself will contribute 30% of the funds and how these funds will be used at the final stage. The Slovenian University Sports Union will report mainly to the Slovenian public, and I think that, in the end, political responsibility will be sought primarily through the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, if this candidature does not do everything as it should. And in the end, today, obviously with a large majority, we will support this conclusion. I regret, however, that we, for example, have failed to do so when we made decisions by some other Members to, say, build a national university library. And now I wonder whether it is necessary to form a Slovenian link for the establishment of the National University Library in order to obtain a similar consensus in the National Assembly as is sought today by the Slovenian University Sports Union in order to organise the 2011 Winter University. This is more a matter of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is not a question of you, gentlemen organisers, nor of the Mayor. It is simply a new relationship in this Slovenian policy, where it is easier to get support from a proposal coming from below in the National Assembly than to use proposals that parliamentary parties can make. The proposal is good, it will experience support, but, of course, it is primarily the responsibility of the next government, the government of the next mandate, to provide enough money for which we will make a "promise" in the National Assembly today, in pronouncing a financial guarantee. Congratulations and I hope that you will succeed on the basis of today's support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u100	Thank you. We have exhausted the list of Members and Members of Parliament. I invite you, on behalf of the proposed Mayor of the Municipality of Maribor, Mr Boris Sovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u101	Dear High Council! Thank you very much for supporting the project presented here today. This is a project jointly prepared by the Slovenian University Sports Association, the University of Maribor and all Slovenian universities and the Municipality of Maribor. This is a project with great development potential. Many countries are working to make such projects possible because they are important investments in sports, tourism infrastructure, and thus in development infrastructure. It is about promoting active leisure for young people and for all generations. It's about promoting tolerance, "fair play", all of these are categories of the 21st century. This motivates many to opt for these nominations. In this case, too, there are more candidates and a hard fight will be needed to win it and to be fully successful for this candidacy. But an important key prerequisite is today's decision. There were some suggestions and comments in the debate, including opinions, and let me at least try to respond to some. First questions related to the assessment of the development of Maribor. Some of you felt that this development should be more intense. I am grateful to accept this idea and such opinions, and I politely invite you to support the projects that are ready. In Maribor there have been about a billion euro investments in recent years, I am talking about larger investments, mainly in the economy, housing, road infrastructure, culture, sport and education. Over the next few years, in Maribor, it is prepared for about € 1.6 billion in investments, and I politely suggest that you help us do so. I believe that those of you who have discussed this today will no doubt do so. Today there was also a debate on the jumping center. Yes, those who said in the debate that in Maribor the jumping center had once been. This is where a well-known tour of three countries began. Today this center is gone. I think Mr Hwauc has said the most precisely. Slovenia needs a network of jumping centres if we are to make the Planica, which is a global dimension, a success. In Planica, we want local grasshoppers to jump, if that is to be the case, we need a network of jumping centers around the country where young people will be able to train, where young people can engage in this sport. It is therefore important that this project also be supported. I think it is very important for this support to take place today, but it is true that we must be aware that there will be a lot of work, a lot of government involvement, a competent ministry and, of course, a national assembly. Finally, many decisions will also be linked to the state budget, but this is a developmental stimulus; this is a conscious decision that there is a need to enable certain development breakthroughs in this country, and this is certainly the case. Therefore, I respectfully request your support and politely invite you to the opening on Wednesday, 19 January 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. Owl. May I have your attention before I read the proposal for a decision? Therefore, since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decision, we will move on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has previously agreed to submit an application for the organisation of the 25th University of Maribor, 2011 and agrees with the co-financing of the event from state resources, with special budget items of the Ministry of the Interior being provided for police work in the event insurance. The organiser of the event shall submit to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a detailed report on the use of the financial resources no later than 6 months after the end of the event. Before we go to the vote, I ask who wants to explain their vote. I would ask if you would sign up first for the one you will explain on behalf of the Group of Members. On behalf of the Group of Members, Comrade Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Our parliamentary group will vote as it has announced, it will support this proposal, and it seems important to me to stress that the four Members are not many of us, we come from different parts of Slovenia, and that we have not thought about and thought about geographical definitions. Another time. We would like to say that it is regrettable to discuss that our commitment to this event is pre-eminent. Those who don't know that it's a university that's of global importance, which it's going to participate in, teach, over 50 countries, and don't know that the organizers somewhere else in the world didn't know that we have local elections this year, and they set us on June 30th as the last day for the deadline to apply, the ones who better keep quiet than to leave behind nonsense. Some of us, or all of us, supported this proposal and many supported it with a delivery - but. I would like to say that this "but" is probably too much, because to do so - I hope that there will be no one who would do so - that we all know that 2 times 2 is four, and some are unhappy about this. We can't do that. Those who spoke of the Slovenian project being this university are right. We proponents are aware of this, but if we stress Maribor and Pohorje and the surrounding area, we feel that we are also part of Slovenia and that Slovenian projects can also happen with us. And it is no less Slovenian if it is on Maribor, on the Maribor Pohorje, on the Russian Pohorje or in Maribor, than if we were jumping on a mountain range. Some spoke of the need to exploit the existing network. Some spoke of the need for proper backing. We had the right backseat for jumping sport, and we lost it. We're trying to get him back. We had the right backdrop for top runners in Lovrence, and we lost it because we built objects elsewhere. We had backdrops for great shooters, for example, in the Russians, but they can't be beatlons because they don't have anywhere to run. And so we could keep listing for the rest of the time. But I just want to say this, the back is there, and the back is where it's not there today, and we have to start building. And that is why we feel that this project is worth all the support.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u104	Thank you. Explanation of voice. A messenger from the oven in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u105	In my name, yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Not because of the elections or because she would be at home with Styria, but mainly because I believe that each such project is a whole of Slovenia, regardless of where the event will take place, where the university will be in this case, or perhaps sometime in better times of the Mediterranean game in Slovenia. That each such thing is a project of all Slovenia, is our project and therefore I think it is right to support and draw all Slovenians and all Slovenes out of it as much as possible. We can draw more things, one thing is that we know, regardless of our local characteristics, to step together and do things together. After the second salary, we can also benefit everyone for ourselves, because if something so beautiful and great is happening in Maribor, we can benefit from it in Izola, Koper, Piranu, because we can promote ourselves through Maribor. Last but not least, the Primors and the Styrians always stick together through Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u106	Thank you. Voice explanation, Happy Hvauc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u107	On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group, I would like to say that our Group of Members will support the candidacy of the City of Maribor and Slovenia for the 25th Winter University. In our opinion, it is an exceptional opportunity for Slovenia, the region itself, where most of these competitions will be held, and the city of Maribor to promote in Europe and in the world, to increase the visibility of Slovenia and our places and to take one important development step with or without help from Slovenia, as regards the development of sport and tourism infrastructure, general development, the opening of new jobs. We think that the project is as well prepared, and it is good that it has very broad support in both the local environment and the wider one. Today, it appears that he will also receive the support of this respected congregation. It is also particularly important that the project, as such, has the support of the current government, which, as announced, will do everything to ensure that the project is also successfully implemented and that we will achieve the objectives that we can pursue with this project. We believe that such an event is an extraordinary development opportunity not only for tourism and for a narrower space, but in fact for the whole region and that it can also bring long-term positive effects after the games are over. In view of how the project is set up, we are convinced that sports objects that will either be updated or even rebuilt are set up in such a concept that the bad history of some similar cases will not be repeated when the objects are then, obviously, my debate is not too interesting because [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Because the concept is set so that the facilities can benefit from a wider purpose and for tourism and sports activities further, we believe that the project needs to be supported and supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u108	Thank you. Voice explanation, Member Grimes. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. I am very well aware that the time of the electoral campaign, as well as the match of future and current Maribor mayors, to whom we have witnessed, is very talkative here today, but I would like to point out something. The whole debate that we have witnessed on the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, which I am leading, has gone to the point that this project is meaningful, good and will only be successful if it is actually a joint Slovenian project and that it is necessary to anticipate costs in this context, in this context it is necessary to anticipate funding and in this context it is possible to take responsibility. In fact, when it comes to distances, because this is supposed to be a key problem, I would only remind you of something. The last Olympic Winter Games, as an example of a few of these, were usually held by individual events, venues from where they were formally arranged, up to 250 kilometers in one direction. It's more than all over Slovenia, by the way. On the other hand, you will understand why, at the time of the North American position, all our plankness sounds rather ridiculous, just one example, Winnipeg in North America has its annual swimming pool, which is more than 120 kilometers away from the city center. In the light of some of these debates that have been here today, I hope that says a great deal. As it is said, let this be a joint project and in this context I will also vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u110	Thank you. Vote explanation Member Tomaž Šteba, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will support student Olympics, organisation in Slovenia, and I believe that this is such an event that athletes from around the world are attending, that it is also important for Slovenia, let alone for the university city Maribor, which also has its winter sports centre close by. I also agree with the fact that the government has been very specific in the proposal, which means that it is responsible, and that it does not promise anything and does not cover the whole project simply without an unknown and undefined amount. I am afraid that there are still a considerable number of billion missing in the financial structure and that the part of the money that is missing from the investment will have to be taken care of here in particular. However, I support the allocation of resources from the State budget for the infrastructure that is intended for students, universities, one or the other. I also believe that without the cooperation of an economy, which is not properly shown here, such a project will not be possible and will not have a final effect. I would like to point out, however, that in Slovenia, it usually happens that built objects are not really in the function and utility that we all want, and they are not intended primarily for the mass and the kind of sport that we all talk about to benefit from work performance, study and so on. I think that distribution of locations across Slovenia is also not controversial and should also work in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u112	Thank you. The word is Mitja Slavinec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u113	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will support this proposal myself. Given that there has been a lot of positive talk, I will focus mainly on two things. It seems important to me that there will be a university in Maribor, not only because of the already anticipated organizational success and many infrastructure gains that we can expect, but also because of sports success, which should be accompanied by the event in the home territory. This desired sports success can also be understood in such a way that more will have to be done in the area of the popularisation of sport and thus create an additional incentive for the development of this sport. And the other thing is next. We have already heard that a relatively large share of the funds will have to be provided by the local budget and not by the state budget, and that is why I believe that this is one of the additional guarantees that the funds will be used so carefully and will also be provided for later maintenance. For all this I congratulate the Slovenian University Sports Association, the University of Maribor and the Municipality of Maribor for its successful journey to date. But to all those who can help, of course, I lay on my heart to continue with your activities and lobbying, and happily even in the final acquisition of the university! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u114	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Ambassador Franz Kangler, allow me - Comrade Squeakl, please do not use the center of the hall to walk during the course of the meeting. Please show so much respect for the National Assembly and the guests, and you don't do that anymore. Thank you. As a matter of fact, an explanation of vote, Ambassador Franz Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. On behalf of the Group of Members. The Slovenian People's Party's delegation supported the decision on prior agreement to apply for the winter university in Maribor in 2011. In the parliamentary group, we believe that it is important, given that Maribor is a university city and that this is all a Slovenian project. After all, in the Group of Members, we are aware that obtaining this title to obtain Slovenia in 2011 the university in Slovenia, in the city itself, Maribor, would be a great success for the Slovenian state. After all, we are aware that Maribor was also well known for his time by a well-known world gymnast, the late Leon Stukl, and certainly if you remember those times when Mr Leon Stukelj represented Slovenia throughout Europe and around the world, the recognition of Slovenia was at a higher level. For this reason too, as some of you have said here today, I must point out that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we are very pleased that the Slovenian Government has taken the whole project seriously, and that it is ready both financially and lobbyally to be behind the project. We certainly believe in the parliamentary group that the local community with the other local communities in the region and the city of Maribor is also ready and able to carry out such a project. We are also convinced that the Maribor economy, an economy in the region, will, as long as the opportunity and opportunity for the city of Maribor itself is given and bring this university to Slovenia to join the project itself, cooperate closely in both the tourist and economic fields. We will therefore be happy to support the proposal for prior agreement in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u116	Allow me to afford, perception and culture are one thing. I ask that this is at the height of every individual Member and Member's ability. I ask all Members and Members once again to show so much respect and not to go through the central speaker when the debate or debate is taking place. Member Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. I will support the proposal, but at the same time I would like to think or propose the very way of carrying out the university. It follows from this point of view that the previous football championship was realized in two countries, that the current football championship was organised in the major federal states of Germany, that Switzerland and Austria run together for the next championship, and that the venues are likely to be scattered across cantonal and federal Austrian countries. It was the idea of the joint Olympics of Slovenia, Italy and Austria, and in the light of all these ideas, when the venues are dispersed and as many participating organisers as possible are involved, I might want to see that even in 2011, when the university and Slovenia are already divided into regions, that the venues of the universities are at least partially taking place in the regions. I would like to have at least one game somewhere in Gorenjska, but I don't care in principle whether it's running at Pokluka, whether it's jumping in Planica, or whether it's some hockey game in Jesenica, or in an unbuilt ice room in Kranj, which is the one that was destroyed for the needs of the shopping and business centre, which has not yet been built. That is why, of course, I will vote in favour of the nobleness and importance of the idea. I want it to be a centre of events in Maribor, but don't forget any other part of Slovenia, and let some competition be organised elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u118	Thank you. Vote explanation, Comrade Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u119	In a personal name. I will also support this in my personal name, first of all because it is a sport, because it is an economy, because it is a greater opportunity for development. Then Slovenia's sport comes and Slovenia's economy develops and so on. And then it's the regional labels that some of you are so committed to, and it's the individual game that should be right at your doorstep. But I don't think we should think like that. Because, as some say, Slovenia is really small and logistically manageable, but ask yourself if you do not have in mind only one match, what will happen next 10, 20, 30 years when these objects stop, whether those who want to run the biatlon game will always have to from Murska Sobota to Pokluka, from Maribor always to Pokluka from Dolenjska, or would it be wiser if, when you talk about the distribution of objects, you think about bringing these objects closer to people and giving everyone the opportunity to also perform their sports activities on these facilities. So, for the sake of this, I plead that there would be as much as possible, if not all facilities in Maribor, in Pohorje and in the surrounding area.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u120	Thank you. I invite Ambassador Aleš Gulič to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u121	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I will vote for the university even though I am not a candidate for mayor in Maribor, even though I am not an abderite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u122	Thank you. Vote explanation, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u123	I will support the proposal myself, but of course I have said earlier that I am surprised by the so-called consensus on one side of the government, the ruling coalition, on the other side of the opposition, when it comes to a project whose responsibility the Members will bear and their political responsibility will be the government of the next term. I am, of course, expressing my surprise here, but at the same time congratulations to the organizers that they have managed to bring the project together, but I express my surprise at the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is so easy, without having to take this into account, either in the development programme plan or perhaps in the debate that should take place in Slovenia in these weeks, and this is a debate on public finances, of course. I really suggest to the organisers that they get very detailed from the government, which items, which ministers, how much and when will they really provide money. Perhaps it would have made sense to propose another decision, but it was not possible on the working body, except that you suggested that the police should have a special item, perhaps it would have made sense to ask Minister Žagar, who is sitting here, over this circle, to obtain some additional European funds for this, even though I know that you are very successful in Maribor in view of yesterday's decisions. I'll back the decision myself. At the end of the day, would you still ask the chairman of the National Assembly to tell me what point and provision of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I have violated if I have walked in the middle of this room? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u124	Allow me to make peace in the hall. I believe that my colleague Squeakle answered it himself, but if he doesn't, you're still his Members and Members. And I won't insult you with an answer. In short, we've completed the voice-explanatory phase. I conclude, we move to the vote. Please check your voting devices. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one's against it.]] I am pleased to note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I thank Dr. Kugovnik, Dr. Radonič and Mr. Sovic for their participation. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, we are continuing our meeting. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE DECLARATION OF THE ESTABLISHMENT LAW ON AMENDMENTS 121, 140. IN 143. Member of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We have 1 hour and 55 minutes scheduled for this point. At its 18th meeting, on 20 June this year, the National Assembly adopted a constitutional law amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 182 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Constitutional Law shall be proclaimed no later than 8 days after its adoption, unless at least 30 Members request the amendment of the Constitution to be submitted for approval to voters at the referendum. The request for a referendum has not been submitted and therefore the National Assembly may declare a constitutional law amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution of Slovenia. The Constitutional Law declares the national assembly by adopting a decree on the declaration. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Constitutional Commission for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory presentation of the opinion, Mag. Jagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Proposal for a decree declaring constitutional law amending 121. Articles 140 and 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which you will accept today and which contains a proposal from 72 Members with a first-signed Member and President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr France Tsukjati, is an important directory in the development of the country of Slovenia and its local self-government. The constitutional changes and legislation that will follow from them will and must enable a modern and rational organisation of state and local self-government at both levels, both municipal and provincial. The previous amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, inter alia, allowed Slovenia to become a member of the European Union and other international organisations. This time, however, will give us the opportunity to organize within the country, as dictated by the needs of time and the space in which we are present. By establishing the landscapes as self-government local communities, we will decentralise the decision-making of the country and thus apply the idea of subsidiarity, which is one of the fundamentals of the European Union. In particular, the amended Article 143 of the Constitution will allow us to establish the provinces more quickly and to decentralise the power functions, which means transferring an important part of public affairs from the state to the provincial level, at which they are better and better aware of the needs in their environment and respond more quickly to them, so they are closer to people and for their greater benefit. The landscape regime will also bring new quality in our internal political life, and this is a greater responsibility to individual areas for their faster and more balanced development. In the area between the municipality and the country, the provinces will carry out those tasks of local importance that the municipalities will voluntarily transfer to the provinces and, on the other hand, matters of regional importance that will be determined by law in order to implement them. In doing so, it should be stressed that the change in the Constitution and the legislation followed by it should, in particular, enable the transposition of a number of state-level tasks from the state level down, together with the relevant financial resources, which will in particular allow for a new organisation of the executions of state tasks at both levels of local self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion, I thank you once again for the great support or political will of the procedures for the regionalisation of our country and the application of the principle of subsidiarity. At the same time, I hope and believe that this level of cooperation will also be maintained when we adopt legislation that will actually allow our country to decentralise and make a significant contribution to Slovenia's balanced development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u126	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Before that, let me just get to know you about the item that is now under this item. I will only allow the National Assembly to debate the following words: the Constitutional Act amending the 121st, 140th and 143rd Articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at its meeting on 20.6. Only this is the subject of today’s debate, because the actual change, the content of the obligation and the financing, was discussed by the State Assembly on 20.6. As we say, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups. A colleague, Josip Bajc, has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u127	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we have stressed the importance of local self-government as an extremely important aspect of a democratic state for several years. For the local community allows people in their territory to regulate those areas of social life that directly relate to the lives of the local population. For the better life of the population, it is also important to regulate the landscapes as well as other levels of local self-government to regulate areas beyond the capacity of municipalities and covering the entire territory of the country. The examination of the provisions on the promulgation of the Constitutional Act amending Article 121, Article 140 and Article 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia shall be governed by the Constitutional Act amending Article 120, Article 140, Article 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which we have unanimously supported by the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, and will also support the ruling under consideration. As we have already presented in the presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party in the consideration of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to Articles 120, 140 and 143 of the Constitution, we also repeat today that the change of the Constitution itself does not allow local self-government, but we expect that the government will simultaneously prepare the other laws necessary for local self-government at the second level to begin to live effectively and formally. Therefore, the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the resolution on the declaration of constitutional law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u128	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group, Member Willi Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Let me just say that the DeSUS Group shares both the belief and the hopes expressed in the introduction by the Minister concerning the decree declaring the constitutional law amending these three constitutional articles, although we are not overly enthusiastic about the excessive and frequent change of constitution. But this path is meant to be due to the fact that individual articles are somewhat rigid in our constitution as regards local self-governments. Because we believe that it is a need to stop those trends that are crushing our country, because we consider it to be a strengthening of self-government, democratic processes, and also because it is a possibility of a more balanced development in Slovenia. If we have talked about a specific case in the previous paragraph, we are now talking about the principle options that this door will open up a little bit more broadly. We support this decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u130	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members. Member Branko Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u131	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the decree proclaiming the constitutional law amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The constitutional law that we are considering today or the decree interferes with those areas that allow Slovenia to conclude the second level of local self-government. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been making a huge contribution from the beginning, and last but not least, there has been a great deal of support for Members and Members, with 72 signatures supporting constitutional changes and today we will be deciding on a decision to declare that constitutional law. We are confident that by adopting this decree we will take an important step in the field of local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia. As it is said, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will also confirm the decree declaring the constitutional law on amendments 121., 140. and 143rd Articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u132	Thank you. The presentation of the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy is intended to be presented by Dr Slavko Gaber. [[He's not in the hall.]] Here comes a presentation of the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Mr. Ambassador Bojan Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will be convinced that, with the proposed amendment, we mean everyone in this Chamber who supports this change seriously and with the arguments that we have repeatedly reiterated in the debates so far, and with the desire that the Government and the Ministry in particular take seriously the necessary legislation, we have supported the decree proclaiming the constitutional law amending the 121st, 140th and 143rd Articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u134	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. As some Members of the debate have given up, I call on the first Member of Parliament, Franz Kangler. Comrade Franz Kangler, do you give up? [[Yeah.]] The following is said to be the word of fellow Member Davorin Terchón. [[He's not here.]] The next one should have the word of Ambassador Maja Shirtz. [[She's not here.]] I'm supposed to give the word to the Members of the Flower of Zalokar Orazem. [[She's not here.]] Member Joseph Školč is supposed to have the word. [[He's not here.]] My colleague Trofenik signed up for this. [[He's not here.]] In addition, colleague Anton Anderlich has also been reported. He's not here. I give my word to Dr. Mitja Slavinec. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u135	Thank you very much. In view of the introductory explanation I will briefly explain, of course, the proposal for a decree declaring a constitutional law amending these three articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as has already been heard, we support this proposal. I'll personally support him. In doing so, I stress that the decree itself does not yet guarantee what we want, with this support, that only the change of the constitution will not be sufficient and that there will then be even more important work that needs to be done in a responsible and real way, so that these processes of decentralisation will indeed ensure a more coherent regional development, faster development of areas that are at present behind the Slovenian average. We need to be aware that when changes to the law on regionalisation or the constitution that will allow for religiousisation, and if it is made on the basis of this decree, it will allow for faster development of all areas, this will also be very useful for Slovenia as a whole. There is always an example that the chain is as strong as the weakest article can bear, and let us now try to regionalise Slovenia in such a way as to get the chain out of the strongest possible articles.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u136	Comrade Slavinec, allow me to reach into your debate. In the beginning, I mentioned what I would allow and what I would not allow to be debated. Today we are discussing the decree, the content you are submitting, we made at the previous meeting, that was 20.6.2006. I'm asking you to stick to the content like all those who are supposed to talk in front of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u137	Of course, the parable of the chain, as I said in the introduction, was meant by a proposal for a decree that would allow for the achievement and pursuit of the objective to which this decree is intended. I'll back you up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u138	Thank you. I give the floor to Darja Lavižar Bebler. She's not here. Dr. Slavko Gaber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. I myself will support the proposal for a decree declaring the constitutional law amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution of Slovenia. This is the final act on a very long road and with the desire to come to the preparation as soon as possible of actual landscapes, the formation of landscapes, will also be supported by the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u140	Thank you. And to my word, I invite the last Member of Parliament to report, mag. Milan M. Squeakles. He's not here. I give the decision speech to the government representative, the minister. You're giving up. Thank you. I also conclude the debate with this. In the meantime, I ask all Members of Parliament and Members who are in the lobby to join us, and we will soon proceed to the vote. Since no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision. Decree declaring the constitutional law amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you. Voice explanation, Comrade Tanko. Here you go. We're moving to the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u141	On behalf of the Group of Members, I request a 10-minute recess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u142	You will, of course, get a 10-minute break before making your decision. But I ask, does anyone - the first two things - want to explain their voice? And secondly, colleague Paula Rupar, do you have the authority to make your procedural proposal by the leader of the parliamentary group? Yes, you do. Then I'm setting a 10-minute break. We're adjourning the session, which will be resumed at 4:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u143	Dear Members! We continue with the adjourned session, suspended at the request of a colleague of Pavel Rupar, who requested a 10-minute recess on behalf of the SDS delegation. Comrade Paula Rupar, you will inform us of your decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u144	Thank you very much, buddy. You know why I took a 10-minute break, because some parliamentary group still does not take this vote completely seriously, it would probably take three days to break. Nevertheless, we have decided how many provinces we will support, and with this purpose, of course, we will vote in favour of this decree. But how many there will be, some other time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-27-SDZ4-Izredna-19.ana.u145	Thank you. So we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 5. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the proposed decree was adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 19th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. But I wish you all a nice rest of the day. Good luck.
