ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin with the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Anderlich, Roberto Battelli, Aurelio Juri, Drago Koren until 16:00 and Victory Jelinčič Nobleni. We're moving to six. Period of the day -- that's a third defensively proposed law on civil society. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. I give the full floor to the representative of the parliamentary groups to present my position on the draft law. Mr Marjan Pojbič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u2	Respectable. The proposal for the Law on municipal registrarship, which we have in our third reading today, lays down the rules of statutory powers for the organisation of municipal registries and lays the groundwork for the formation of various types of authorised municipal officials by name and authority, or by name and by the content of various municipal administrations and criminal authorities. The Law on Road Traffic Safety and the Law on Local Self-Government also imposes on municipalities to carry out their duties. On their basis, we have already regulated municipal offices as organisational units of municipal administrations in 23 municipalities, and in the 11th, the posts of municipal editors are systematised. Nevertheless, the congregation finds that the regulation is not properly regulated, mainly because the officials do not have the so-called security powers, although they are virtually the same measures and resources that the legislator has granted to private security years ago. These powers are now provided for in the new Law on the Protection of Public and Peace, which we have recently adopted and will also be drawn up by the Law on the Civil Society, which is an additional reason for its adoption. In view of the preliminary assessment of the state of public security and public order and peace at local level and the situation of the municipal editors, the reasons for the adoption of the proposal of the Law on municipal governance can be summarized into three points. Firstly, a lack of adequate systemic and legal arrangements to allow for a coordinated assessment, management and control of security problems and processes for their regulation at horizontal and vertical level. Existing legislation, in particular those in the public administration system and local self-government, does not provide all the necessary conditions for the exercise of public security at both national and local levels to be coordinated and as successful as possible, which is essential for the strategic and crisis performance of public security at both levels. Another time. Official estimates of the rise in violence and vandalism that threaten the safety, lives of people, property, public order and peace in the local community are becoming increasingly worrying. Individual local communities have high costs at the expense of vandalism, although statistics show the level of these costs, which may be one of the important indicators of measuring the needs for a different approach to addressing security problems, are not at local level. Thirdly, all other reasons for drafting the text of the law. The proposed law is based on the conclusion that the provision of public order and peace and, in this regard, the protection of life and health and the property of the inhabitants and the local community constitute the necessary interest of both the municipalities and the countries as a whole. These are tasks that can be performed independently by municipal officials, but the exercise of these tasks is inseparably linked to measures that may constitute an intervention in human rights and fundamental freedoms. This means that it is necessary to ensure the organisation of the services and the competence of the performers or the authorised persons in order to ensure the legitimate and proportionate work of the authorised officials of the municipal departments. The bill is based on the principles of the rule of law and on the principle of equality before the law. It should be pointed out that the proposed Law on Municipal Editorial is governed by the work of red tape by virtue of the principle of equality before the law, which excludes the will of the municipal editors and exceeds their powers, since it does not, in accordance with the principle of professionalism and supervision of the conduct of the red tape service, allow for doubts to be raised about the correctness of the work of the municipal editor. At the same time, the text is based on the principle of sharing responsibilities between individual holders of security tasks in the Republic of Slovenia. In the third reading, an amendment was tabled by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, which provides that in the case of injury caused during the course of the proceedings, the municipal editor is obliged to inform the mayor in writing without delay. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will not support the amendment because it would introduce a subjective assessment of the time it takes to inform the mayor of such an event. We are convinced that the original text is more specific, since there is no doubt at what time the Head of Staff must inform the mayor. We fully support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group because we believe that the proposed law is good and must be put into practice as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor on behalf of the LDS delegation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the LDS, as in all the stages so far, we will not be supporting the Editorial Act today. We believe that it is prepared on the very wrong grounds, because the starting point, based on the police withdrawing from the local level and the establishment of new large-scale municipal editorial services as local police, is completely inappropriate and pointless. This is also not appropriate because of the size of Slovenian municipalities, as I think only two, perhaps Maribor and Ljubljana, meet the basic criteria of size. The municipal government law will not have a positive impact on security and the establishment of order in local environments, as Minister Žagar claims and as the hope of the coalition. It is only a matter of putting the police's responsibility on the side of the country, because ensuring public order and peace is certainly a state function, putting it on the local community is blocking the eyes before what is really happening. It is true that there are behaviours in society that deviate from some pending legal order and rules in society, but for such violations in Slovenia we have already established competent institutions that should operate and function, and we often see that this is not the case. We do not agree with the scope of the powers to be given by the municipal editors, which are enshrined in the Proposal for a Law on municipal registrarship, as well as in the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace. We believe that they will be overly affected by fundamental human rights, such as personal dignity, the right to private property, freedom of movement and the like. How sensitive this can be, especially when it has not been completed to the minimum accuracy, we have been able to monitor it in recent weeks, and it will be too much, according to my assessment or assessment of the LDS Club, also the responsibility that the mayor will receive. I must say that I would be very afraid of such responsibilities, I would be afraid, and the mayor, who will become an appellate body, will be very lonely in this function. If you look at how this is happening at the police level, we can see that the police actually have the whole system of internal control, how and how they identify and deal with the situations at issue. The mayor himself or at the first stage is expected to act in this respect by the commission. I do not believe that, with all the other powers, tasks and duties that he has, he is not ready, unable to do, he does not have adequate knowledge of such sensitive matters as complaints may be due to the inappropriate conduct of the municipal editors. Municipal officials will be able to find themselves in a situation where a security review of the person, the seizure of the items, the detention of the perpetrator of the offence or of the crime will be required, or where even the use of the means of locking and tying is necessary. Of course, there's not a lot of this stuff, and I think it's only right that it doesn't get it; it has a sprayer, it has the means to bind and lock. However, in the Liberal Democracy Club, we are afraid of what situations such a editor will be in, how and who will take care of his protection in these situations, when he is actually left alone, because I reiterate that the police also have the whole system on this segment, how police are actually protected and in what sense they are going to act when these situations are more controversial. He's a director, interesting, and he's also subordinate to the police. In these cases, it is not a matter of acting when citizens park their car incorrectly, for example, but rather of acting or exercising powers conferred on the national repressive authorities, specifically on the police and in accordance with constitutional principles and the Constitution, ensuring public order and safeguarding the life and health and property of everyone throughout the country. In doing so, we would also like to point out that the congregations will have major human resources problems, as there is a shortage of staff from this area, as they also find in the police. There will not be enough proper editors, and some training within the meaning of 160 hours of training will not be enough for the solid and responsible work of future editors. At the LDS club, we cannot agree to an arrangement that would transfer these powers to a new repressive body. These are tasks that we cannot leave to the discretion and regulation of the municipalities, which, due to their material capabilities, will carry out this activity in very different ways. In fact, they will decide when they will intervene and when they will not intervene, but believe that congregations will soon be forced to decide on their own editorial services, for pressure from citizens and citizens will be great. They will demand that the congregations be active and, of course, there will be very awkward and inappropriate situations. In general, it is necessary to say that the municipalities will have to find, according to our assessment, very large new financial resources, since there is no equipment, no space, no vehicles, no tools, no personnel and no training. According to our assessment, one municipal editor alone will stand at an annual level of about 5 million tolars with everything he will have to offer. The assessment is also that at this point it will be necessary to employ at least 150 new municipal editors if we want these services to be truly effective, which means that over 60 million new tolars will need to be provided. It's a matter of public administration employment. I would like to know what the position of other authorities in the government is, because it is an extremely fundamental intervention, and we have not seen in the LDS Club that anything would be reduced, redistributed, reorganised in the area of police, which has performed these tasks so far. Despite the fact that we have the most employed policemen per 1,000 people in Slovenia, it is obvious that because of their poor organisation, poor conduct within the police will only continue to write unnecessary papers, while what we find particularly as citizens and citizens is the fact that we do not actually see them on the ground. The new law will not improve security. More importantly, the powers between the authorities and the police will not be divided, agreed, and the responsibility will be transferred from the body to the body, they will look at who is more and who is less guilty, which is, of course, the practice in many of the most advanced recent events, at events in recent years, when we have watched the translation of responsibility from inspectors to minister, from minister to municipality, from police and so on. What we need would be a change to the law on police, which would allow for the establishment of special departments within police stations to ensure the security of public order and peace, and by no means establish local police. This law is a bear service to the municipalities. Interestingly, many solutions under this law also point to the subordinate role that the congregations will play in certain matters governed by law. For most things will still have to be coordinated, reviewed or even acted under the intervention of the Ministry of the Interior or the Police. This is a bad law, a law that will not bring about any new progress in ensuring greater security and order in local environments, but only new problems, especially the extremely high new financial costs to municipalities for which funds have not yet been provided, and citizens will require their mayors and their municipal managers to be active in this area. Unfortunately, they will have in their hands a poor legal basis within the meaning of the Law on Community Regency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u6	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! There is a need for the bill's proposer to do more for security, or, above all, more at local level than has been done so far. For in the hierarchy of values between people, security is very high. Many of us are reminded of vandalism, crimes, and many times of their hardships and fears, when many individuals fear for their own safety, i.e. their own safety, do not even hope to draw attention to the individual acts of violence and debauchery. Most of the warnings are related to vandalism, drug trafficking and non-vehicle traffic traffic, and there are many offences. In some local communities, or in order to improve security, we have established co-operations to improve the safety of citizens, where preventive measures are being implemented with the competent services, including the police. In doing so, we are constantly faced with the fact that the police at police stations are understaffed by those police officers involved in prevention. The police once collaborated with the people, and the leaders of the security environment knew the residents and their way of life. We may also feel that this police work has a taste for socialism, thus stopping the police from being willing or reluctant to distance themselves from their actual problems where people live. The bill that we are considering today could be said to have a good purpose: it also gives local communities new powers in the field of public order and peace, giving new police powers to municipal officials. However, the intention of the bill's proponents to take responsibility for public order and peace to the mayors of the local community is well-meaning. The police will withdraw from the scope of their current operation and often also, regrettably, leave the activities and activities to the editors. The work of police officers should certainly bring people closer to where problems arise or where they assume that these problems might arise. I'm thinking mainly of preventive action. Just walking a uniformed police officer on a non-transportable surface for a while will deter potential traffic violators. The presence of police officers in the vicinity of schools is also very quickly resulting in the movement of drug dealers outside the school area. Many times people find that police officers are present where this is not very necessary, but they are missing in areas that they call after their presence. The right solution would certainly be to provide additional police officers, i.e. the staffing of police stations, better technical equipment and a better driving park, not that, as it is now many times seen in the streets of cities, but also villages, that drug dealers use high-class cars in their work, and police officers are old, worn out and therefore dangerous vehicles. Already in the general discussion of the law, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, I announced that amendments should be tabled, with the desire to improve the proposed law. The amendments were tabled as far as Article 20, and the vast majority of them have been rejected. Also in the second reading at the November meeting of the National Assembly, the story was repeated. As I have already said, in the Group of Social Democrats we wanted to improve this text of the law, unfortunately we have not been successful, including colleagues and colleagues from the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, both at the working body and at the meeting of the National Assembly itself. In the Social Democrats' Group, we agree that the area of municipal registries should be properly regulated systematically, but we fear that the proposal for a law means transferring measures in the event of police violations to municipal registries and thereby transferring the responsibility of the State to a certain part of the security issue to the mayors without having the necessary resources and, more importantly, the necessary or appropriate personnel available for the implementation of this law. The Road Safety Act and the Law on Public Order and Peace provide for new additional powers for municipal officials. In doing so, it should be pointed out that municipal registries are not adequately qualified for all actions in cases of breaches of public order and peace. Police are trained to act, police are trained to handle or use coercive means, and municipal officials are certainly not. Municipal editors already have problems with ensuring supervision of peaceful traffic, where they sometimes also receive physical bills and would often need police assistance or cooperation. Municipal officials will not be able to implement certain measures envisaged in the bill. Detention of the offender of the offence and of the offence, use of coercive means, physical force, means of locking and tying, gas dispenser. We believe that the draft law should further define the relationship between the police and the municipal authorities. With regard to training of municipal editors, assistance from the Ministry of the Interior is provided. Of course, this aid will be paid from municipal budgets. We believe that such training will not be effective after the adapted programme, nor is there a clear time frame for such training, nor is its content itself. We believe that the debate on the content of the proposed law, without making a thorough analysis of the existing system of registries in municipalities, their equipment and skills for the conduct of the procedures so far, has not been made. So, analysis and assessment of the existing situation at this time, one that is based on professional grounds, we do not have. And as long as we do not have this, and until we have clearly expressed the needs of local communities, the adoption of this law is premature, according to the Socialist Group of Members. And by then, we could clearly improve the security issue by increasing the presence of police officers, as I mentioned in the introduction. Increase the presence of police officers where people need or expect their presence. Gradually, which will probably take as many as a decade, as well as in the municipalities, we will establish a municipal registrar who will be adequately trained and equipped to be accepted or respected by citizens at least as the police are now. For all the reasons that we have already mentioned in the parliamentary group in general, and at the home labour body, and at the second reading in the National Assembly and now in the third, we will not support this law. So we will not vote in favour of the law that we believe is premature at this time and that it merely carries the responsibility from the country to the local community.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u8	Well-known, distinguished Vice President, Minister of Cooperation, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia, we supported the proposal for a law on municipal registrarship at first reading. At the presentation we gave special attention to the preparation of the municipal security programme. Through the legislative procedure, the test stone of the proposed law has proved to be a municipal security programme, as it will determine to what extent and how the police and the municipality will participate in the care of public and transport security. The law preserves the congregations’ friendly arrangements, leaving them with a decision to organize the editorial service. The municipalities may decide not to organise the editorial services and will be performed by the municipal editor as an authorised official. In view of the fact that the Community Financing Act retains 50% of the co-financing of the costs of the operation of the Joint Municipal Administration, it is likely that municipalities will be more likely to establish red tape in the form of a joint municipal body. By organising the municipal government, the municipalities will also arrange for the implementation of the tasks imposed on them by the Road Traffic Safety Act and the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace. In particular, due to the latter, appropriate powers shall be conferred on the municipal governors. In the New Slovenia Group, we support such a proposal for a law that requires, by virtue of the nature of the mandate of the municipal editor, that persons exercising these powers meet certain conditions. These conditions must to the greatest extent ensure the legality and proportionality of the exercise of powers and, in this context, the protection of human rights and freedoms. Due to possible interference with human rights and freedoms, we would also like to highlight the training programme of municipal editors in the New Slovenia Group. Through uniform professional training, the state will ensure the same standard of training for all editors. The proposal underlines that a person who does not carry out all the prescribed tests of knowledge must not perform the duties of a municipal director alone. In addition, it is worth noting that the Law on Offences also confers the status of municipal criminal authorities. The financing of vocational training for municipalities will not create additional financial burdens as it will take place under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior. The security situation varies widely across municipalities, so the development of the safety assessment and the preparation of the programme will require the expertise and capacity of individual municipalities, including mayors and police representatives responsible for carrying out the duties of the police in each municipality. How the municipalities will be able to demarcate the powers of the municipal editors and the police depends also on the proposer of the law and the departmental ministry, to what extent they will advise the municipalities in the implementation of the law. In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia, we advocate a policy of ensuring the security of all peoples of Slovenia. Our goal is to establish a society within which people can move freely and feel safe. We advocate the good training of both police units and municipal officials, and they deserve adequate payment and public recognition for their work. Through such efforts, we also support the proposal for a law on municipal registrarship in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Kristijan Janc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will support this law. In fact, communities or local communities face many problems at a micro level, particularly in the area of public order and peace violations. Citizens of municipalities expect the mayor and municipal administrations to make order in this area and to ensure greater security for their citizens. Of course, what does not need to be emphasized is that the jurisdiction of the congregations in this matter is limited to the level of congregational councils. Municipal officials have very limited powers, particularly in the security field, and cannot implement measures and resources granted by the law even to private protection. There are, therefore, several reasons for the adoption of the Law on municipal registrarship. In Slovenia we need an adequate systemic legal vision of this area. In addition, there has been an increase in the incidence of vandalism in recent years which threatens local people. The police are, of course, responsible for this area, but this, taking into account the increasing number of additional tasks, cannot guarantee effective protection of the lives of people and public order and peace in the field of local communities. The law provides a legal framework for the organisation of municipal registries. The law lays down the basis for the adoption of municipal security programmes which, in view of the increase in violations of public order and peace and other violations, are necessary for the effective work of the editors. It will also determine the type and scope of the tasks of the municipal editors as it is necessary to take into account the different specificities and needs of individual local communities. The clearly defined powers of the editors ensure a sufficiently high level of legal certainty and prevent managers from using powers in contravention of the law. At the same time, it is particularly important to highlight the use of coercive means likely to be devoted to much debate or to much debate. The law on the use of coercive means is very clear and binds them to a stay from a temporary unlawful attack. Expectations that we are establishing a local police force are not sustainable, but that it is a partnership at the level of the local community between the directors and the police, which will jointly carry out activities, in particular in the field of public order, peace, transport, security and control. This area is very important for our citizens, and with good local service, security will certainly improve, more orderly care, more prevention and a variety of warnings about the irregularities that are taking place in the place. The law on police remains unchanged and will continue to carry out, in accordance with its law, its mission under the law itself. However, in the area, according to our assessment, there is additional assistance and reinforcement for the greater security of our citizens, which will be adopted by the municipal council on a proposal from the mayor, because the type and scope of the duties of the municipal editor will be specified in detail. For any good work done in the field of editorial service, it will certainly be an important professional and qualified staff, which will also be properly motivated, because it is a very sensitive and difficult work and therefore the staff choice in the field of local community will be extremely important for this field of editorial service. However, all professional assistance may be provided by a well-trained competent Ministry of the Interior. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that this Systemic Law on Municipal Government is absolutely necessary and well prepared. We believe that there is a good law before us that is valid for acknowledgment. Finally, it is a law that will enable the local community to increase the safety of the lives of our citizens and citizens and help to reduce violations of public order and, of course, in other areas for which municipal officials will be responsible. The body in the local community therefore has the most direct contact with the territory and is most aware of the problems that plague a particular municipality. It is our duty to enable the congregations to meet people’s security expectations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respectable present. Allow me to announce at the outset, given that you probably have not yet received the amendment proposed in the Slovenian National Party: "In the event that a person is injured or killed during the proceedings, the head of the municipal governorate is obliged to inform the mayor of the municipality immediately where the seat of the municipality is located." So the word "in writing" is kind of, I'll say, sneaking into the original thought and the intention of the amendment, and we can delete that word "in writing." If you'll allow me a few words about this amendment, I'll put it this way. It makes sense that, within the limits of the powers conferred by this law, the officer shall immediately inform the mayor and not only the other authorities who have been called upon to do so in this country to cause injury or death to an individual by their conduct. It means he can call the mayor on his cell phone, but don't tell me the mayors don't have a cell phone! Believe me, even if they don't have one, it's better if we give them this phone in this law and give them a toll card and then let them know as much as they can. With this amendment, I also think that the reason for the failure to support the amendment by the Slovenian National Party by the party's largest coalition is because of the reason that it is "the subjective assessment of the time", I have just remembered this term, "imposed". Before that, I thought it was very "for the woods attracted", but you know what a subjective assessment of time, as was said in the presentation of the party's largest coalition, means? This means that the city dweller has this personal power, or personal will, by subjectively assessing whether he has harmed or even killed someone. He has this subjective, personal - subjective - meaning personal - for all those who laugh and stare at the computer, I must tell you that it seems to me that the city editor, regardless of his experience and education, even if the doctor is a medical doctor after education is performing the work of the city editor, very difficult to subjectively assess when he has injured and when he is not and whether he is subjectively qualified to determine whether he can inform the mayor immediately, within an hour, two, five or 12 hours. I think this component is out of order with this repair. I therefore believe that, given that we have also abolished this subjectivity, you will be happy to support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party. As far as the Law on Municipal Government is concerned, I must say in its entirety that we still believe in the Slovenian National Party that the introduction of the so-called other police working at the municipal level is concerned. The reason for such thinking is certainly found in the second paragraph of Article 10, I believe that everyone sitting in here has read it, but "if you have not, unless otherwise provided by this law, the provisions of the Police Act apply to exercise the powers of security review, seizure of objects and use of coercive means." So, the Police Act will be the foundation that will tell the editors how to act if something is forgotten in this law. Which is another proof of the fact that the state police are being levelled and the introduction of the so-called local police. Furthermore, I have heard from the advocates of this law that the congregations find that the officials do not have security powers. I don't think it's right for the officers to have security clearance. In our opinion, the editors may have the authority to either unpark or the editorial service is intended to help the individual municipalities, citizens and citizens, as well as the tourists who find themselves there. It was forgotten, however, that the funding of the congregation was not advocated and that the financing of this new law and the provisions of this new law were not advocated by the congregation. And let us quit being misled; let us put a great financial burden on the congregations! I agree in the part where you say that this is a systemic regulation; of course, we are systematically regulating the introduction of a new local police. And yet another point that surprised me most of all by the supporters of this law. The municipalities find that there is an increase in crime in the Republic of Slovenia. I do not know what communication is within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but the Minister of the Interior assures that crime is falling, while today advocates of this law say that it is a matter of spreading crime in municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia. Give me, please tell me, I see that your smile has disappeared from your lips, but, let me tell you what communication is inside the government. What is crime in Slovenia now? It's growing or falling. Let's make up our minds for once! And if we introduce some new powers to a new group of people that will be organised under this law and that group of people are supposed to influence crime reduction in our country, then we are introducing a new police force. It is said that we are instituting a new body to carry out the work of the police; it is said that crime has been reduced in our country. And there are some other reasons that are mentioned and, in our belief, according to the Slovenian National Party, they certainly do not. Public order and peace, violations of public order and peace - it is said, from today on or if I apologize for saying so from today on, but from the implementation of this law we will have the opportunity to call citizens and citizens of individual municipalities, or to demand the intervention of two groups of people, or the police, as far as the loud music is concerned, or the city editors, as long as there is too much music in a particular environment. Therefore, we do not say that we are not instituting a new repressive body in the congregation. In fact, we have introduced it, we have transferred the burden of funding to the congregation, and this may even reduce crime in our country. The use of physical force, as referred to in the last indent of Article 10 of the funds for locking and tying and gas sprayer, is completely or completely not in the account of the Slovenian National Party. And a one-hour hold. This means that a city dweller, according to his sense or under the provisions of this law, will be very uncertain when it comes to the use of the physical force, the gas dispenser, the means of locking and tying. And here they really touch on those subjective qualities or the personality of the individual city editor, who I have to say that he will even have 166 hours of education, given that he will be able to use all these resources and we give him here the opportunity to hurt or even kill someone. It is indeed the subjective decision of an individual editor. However, if I generalise the matter a little bit, some city editor will - whether or not - give me an example of myself not to offend anyone else - meet me at 10:00 p.m. in front of the Maribor city hall, legitimize, recognize or not, and he will find, according to his subjective assessment, that I have none of the documents because I forgot them in the car, and that subjective assessment will be his that he will be able to lock me up for an hour. Locked up either for -- as we say in Styria -- "telegraph stall" or for something else and would hold me there for an hour. We give them such powers under this law. I think or I'm sure that any use of physical force, locking and binding agents and gas dispenser causes physical damage. Of course, it depends on the person who he is, if he is a sportsman who deals with any martial arts or a little more in gymnastics, then maybe not. However, when it comes to the average citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, I think that each incubation causes physical injury. So, by giving them our powers, we also committed them to informing the mayor. Does that make sense to you? I don't think so. I don't think that makes any sense. And I give that to a man who has 166 hours of additional training for the use of physical force. And if I step into the defense of these editors in this case, let me tell you how this editor is going to use this physical force on someone, I don't know which is a little stronger and a little better than him. And then what will he inform the mayor? "Sorry, Mr. Mayor, but I was a little confused, tired in the performance of my job," he will not admit that he got them, or "fascal", so I find this completely pointless. Once again, congregation officials are expected to perform some kind of supervisory function, concerning the authority of the congregation in terms of parking offences, directing people, helping people in a congregation in difficulty. As a result of me, uniforms can stay, and it makes sense for us to know that this is a congregation official and that we can turn to him. But not give them the powers in the form it has, as stated by the Police Act. I'm afraid, I'm really afraid that when this law is passed, in about three months we'll get a law that says, between the tasks and powers of the city government, that they can direct traffic and that they can work, I don't know, investigate criminal acts, and after 166 hours of special education, we'll also get a small Sherlock Holmes who will race around the city in their distinctive uniforms. I don't think there's a lot of things going on in this marriage. The first thing I have already mentioned is certainly the funding of this profession by the municipalities. The other issue is certainly too much power if we know that, for example, in Slovenian municipalities there are 143 editors who have structured jobs, as has already been said, of which 9 have the most secondary vocational education, 82 secondary general education and 7 minimum vocational education. Nor does the educational structure promise to leave too much subjectivity to these city officials. I have given you a number of reasons why we should support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party, which we have proposed to this law. The cell phone is just something that happens to us, and I don't think there's any more people who don't use it, it's saying that they can tell the mayor immediately, but this immediately, I think it means rescuers and the police first, and then the mayor, if he's causing bodily harm, and I think we've dumped this subjective component. As I say, in the Slovenian National Party, we will absolutely oppose this law because we are giving one group of people absolutely too much power in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u14	Thank you very much and very much. Well, after we have heard in the introduction an interesting philosophical treaty on subjectivity of thought, I must admit two: for the introduction, for the first time, that I, too, would not know otherwise than to speak that subjectivity would burden me. It is also my virtue and the beauty of all of us, that we know subjectively how to think. Secondly, in no way do I intend to support this bill, nor do my fellow Members of the DeSUS Group. While we are inclined to consider the need to ensure greater public order and peace. We are also inclined to pay more attention to the protection of public property. I suppose there is no one among us who would not be responsible for the greater responsibility of the local communities for this common public order and peace, which does not yet speak of the way out. I believe that we are all in favour of preventing as much vandalism as possible from causing material, social and other harm. We even have to say that the intention of this law is real. At the same time, I express the hope that this law would not be adopted for the sake of an urgent need, because of the dramatic conditions that would have deteriorated so much, but rather that some of the legislation already adopted could not be avoided. The law is therefore an inheritance, a legacy of that part of the Road Traffic Safety Act and that part of the Law on Public Order and Peace, which binds the service of local self-government to continue this path. Unfortunately, it seems to us that this heritage, or those "dance shoes" that were inherited, is a bit narrow, that the government service does not move very bravorosically in these shoes, and that many times it is on the feet of those who must dance with them, but, as you have heard before in the previous process and what will be heard, it is probably not all by year. The applicant speaks of increasing road traffic problems, increasing problems with vandalism, domestic violence, noise, garbage, urban neighborhoods, home invasions, garages and business premises, car thefts etc., etc. This may not be clear, for indeed some of the information we heard when we spoke about the Law on Public Order and Peace was different, but at the very least it speaks of the fact that we should therefore adopt the law and impose on the congregation officials these tasks, which they are not able to carry out at all. What, though, do congregation officials have with domestic violence, private homes, and homes where violence has moved from road to house: What do municipal officials have to do with breaking into apartments, business premises, and so forth? What do congregation officials have to say about the collapse of urban neighborhoods? If all these assignments are managed by congregation officials, then they will be something special, an example in a world that is not like him. But these are empty hopes, that's not gonna happen. Second. What I was saying was, I was reading, I was quoting, and now I'm quoting again. The state police are becoming less and less present in the immediate living environment at local level. This is true, it's less and less present, but what's interesting is that the focus on the state police is now going to be some other police entering the local level instead of the state police. Well, some of us are not most pleased with this, but it would be good to be aware that at the same time that fewer and fewer state police are among the people, more and more state police in the offices are telling us that there are also ministers and directors of various Directorates and that there is something to be done here. In the DeSUS Group, we have no prejudice in front of the police, and we think it is necessary to upgrade the police, train them better and bring them back to where it belongs. And I quote again: "Citizens are increasingly less trusting institutions to investigate and suppress crime, which is fueling fear, a sense of danger and trust among our citizens." If the state police can't provide it, but the municipal officials will provide it, then there's not much more than a decision to reduce the state police. Yeah, well, what else is he doing? If he has to transfer these basic tasks to municipal officials who will be a few hundred compared to 8,000 approximately police employees, if I remember correctly, who are unable to do so. And then they complain even beyond the limited jurisdiction of the municipal editors, and because these powers are too little, they insist on taking action, tying, spraying, using gas devices to hold people back, confiscating their objects and so on. All these are things that we cannot strongly support in the DeSUS Group. We're rejecting this basic concept. It will even happen that one minister will only decide what kind of jackets will be on the uniform - see what rules will be issued by someone in the next period - and another minister will have to exercise everything in his hands. And the third partner, the municipalities, will have the right to pay their bills. Well, that's what we have to resist, at least. It's a police reunion, it's getting smaller, we've seen it, it's going to be where it's supposed to be, and it explicitly says in the bill that it's coming down gradually now, and in two years, it's going to be where it is now, it's gone. And she will no longer have the costs that she would now have to impose on herself in order to carry out for two more years the tasks that would otherwise be assigned to the congregation officials will not be done at this time and for some time. The municipalities do not have the choice to do this either, to emphasise that in any case they must provide one of the three possible forms and each of these three possible forms costs something. Nor is it true that there would be no financial consequences, since all the smart mayors will do everything by bringing at least one director from the neighbouring municipality to the common medo-ministerial service to shake off half of the funds that will be allocated from the state budget to those who have the inter-ministerial editorial services. The powers, however, are such that municipal officials will have the authority to prosecute bums. Take a look at the latest interviews in the Journal, what it said, how many ten cases and penalties have been imposed on bums who will never be paid, of course. And the police couldn't recover it, and if the police couldn't recover it, but the municipal officials would succeed, then there's a clear picture of what our current police are like. And if municipal officials are more successful in persecuting enforceable prostitution than the police, then it will be something similar. We therefore do not support such a bill in the DeSUS Group. We are also predicting opposition, not just non-support. In doing so, we are aware that we do not have much power to change anything, but at least we will not blame what happens to us later in the municipal budgets, between the municipal officials and, of course, between the people who will miss both of them in the future - the editors who will not be able to act or will act irrefutablely because they will not be qualified, and the police who will be looking for it in the light of day.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. A full discussion is under way on the proposal for a law. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u16	Thank you very much again, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! We have listened to the opinions of the parliamentary groups, which are quite different, both in the coalition and in the opposition. Different opinions, different views, different heritage, and, I don't know what. Well, we talk a lot about the Police Act. But today we're not talking about the Police Act, it's not about today's agenda, it's about something else. If the Police Act is not good, suggest improvement, improvement. I don't know if he's good, so suggest changes and additions. In short, it's not today's theme. Today’s topic, the agenda item, is quite different, namely the Law on Municipal Government. We have 210 municipalities, which are extremely different, specific, different problems in the field of public order and peace, one more, one less, etc. Of course, it's impossible to make the law so that every mayor can be whatever he wants and be the best. It's just impossible. I believe that, as far as I know this service, the practice of the municipal registrar so far, we have complained to the mayors that the magistrates have no authority and that there is nothing they can do, what they want. Municipal administration, municipal council, local community. Now we're talking, they have too many powers. Again it is not good, for then the laborers will have too much power in their hands to do their work. Now, what do we want? Sometimes we're full of mouths when we say, what's wrong, what's wrong, what should we do to improve, how should we improve? And we talk a lot, they don't have powers, they don't have powers, they don't have that. But when we give it up, it's wrong again, because we're giving too much authority. In short, it is difficult for a reasonable person to discuss such and other colleagues who never agree with something that is proposed either by the Government or by the coalition or by any means. I think that this Law on Municipal Government is going a step further. I am not saying that this is the optimal option for all this to be a "number" in all 210 Slovene municipalities. Yeah, probably not. There will be some problems, and things, I think, will do well if all of this is the interest of the mayor, the municipal council, the administration, to coordinate this matter and to adapt to such a programme, which is acceptable in his environment. What will be the program, and it will be adopted by the municipal council, as proposed by the mayor or municipal administration. And I believe that this mayor, the municipal council, knows what he will impose on the local community in the field of public order and peace, what he will impose in the field of security and security. I don't see any special problems here. However, I believe that it is in the implementation itself, then the director, the skills, the knowledge, the approach, but it will be very important what kind of people we will put here, how they will be educated, what knowledge they will have and how they will end up doing their job. I know there's gonna be a problem here, I'm sure it will. Even with the police, because even in the police force, they're not all real, and they won't be here. But it will be under the jurisdiction of the municipal council, the mayor, and I hope that these matters will be carried out in the way that the municipal council will establish a security programme in the field of local communities. But I do know that such a consequence must cost something. There's nothing without it. If we want something better, it costs something more. Definitely. I don't think we're keeping our eyes closed here, but it's gonna come into the local budget without any tolar costs. But every congregation, every municipal council, and mayor want more order, public order, and peace that does not exist. Certain problems have proved in the past that there have been shortcomings here, that it has not been handled well. However, the problems and problems that the congregation has in this area have so far had no special powers to take action at any time. I also see a partnership here with the local, current police and red tape. If this matter cooperates well with each other, then there will be more security for our citizens, more order, more peace. There is probably no equal partnership with these congregations everywhere. Sometimes this is better, sometimes it is worse, but of course it will be different from the case to the case, but I believe that the mayors, the municipal councils will find a good program, good professional support in the Ministry of Interior or the police, local partnership. If it unites in the interest of what one and the other are set for, then I see a step forward here, surely this is a step forward. Of course, I repeat that there will be no problem, but there will certainly be problems here and there where there are no problems as they occur in all areas, and they will also be here. But of course be such a pessimist and so prejudge that this is not a success, etc., but it seems to me a little but unfair to prepare this law, to this hole that has been created, and that so much dissatisfaction about the current police being debated here today in the National Assembly, which is not the subject of this debate, seems to me just a little too much. The powers, I think, are appropriate, which are probably what they are expected to do with such a job and, of course, necessary. It also seems very positive to me that in all of Slovenia uniforms will be uniformed for these editors wherever you come from, you will see who this person is and what his powers are. Fear of these financial consequences, and I think it is a little overkill, but it will be at the level of the congregation, the size, the appropriateness of the penel that will prepare for the security programme. In doing so, it will also have to provide the appropriate resources necessary for this service, if possible, and we recommend it, and the municipal budget also ensures its functioning. Let us be a bit correct and, say, because in the final stage this is necessary. Now, if we want to put more pressure on the current police and bring all the problems to them, it is sometimes inappropriate, because citizens still think that the congregation is the first one to take care of these matters, and so far it has been so halfway without legal powers, but now they have jurisdiction. They will have the power, responsibility, cooperation with the local police and citizens will certainly expect progress in the field of both public order and peace, security and security, so that I do not list any other areas of work that the editorial service will have. We will support the law and I believe that this will be one step forward in a positive sense, especially in the first place for the greater security of our citizens in each Slovene municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u18	Respectable present. My colleague spoke before me, and I quote that "the growing dissatisfaction about the police" may be justified, but at least in recent times the police deserve it. And from this title I would like to refer to the presentation of one of the positions where it has been pointed out that we actually have all too little police in the field among the people. All of this is absolutely true, but not this deficit, this lack of security for citizens and citizens of our country of the Republic of Slovenia to replace with quasi police, that is, municipal officials. This is a bad solution, a solution that is of course not worth this National Assembly, but above all is not worth trusting in the authorities that are responsible for ensuring peace and order in our municipalities and not least in cities. Personally, it seems very uncreditable to me that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has, of course, highlighted the Ministry without a licence as a portfolio holder of this bill. According to my assessment, on the basis of the Government Act, which defines the tasks of individual ministries, this material should contain the Police Act and, of course, bear it for this department, the Ministry of the Interior. With this per partes rescue and creating some sort of virtual security, which we all know will not be the result of this law; or even more, we will create some kind of chaos, without knowledge and without proper action, but we cannot expect a positive norm. And when it comes to the question of trust in law enforcement authorities, at the same time, I think, of course, in the confidence of the authorities that are supposed to ensure peace through this type of work, of course, we will only reduce it. This is not in the interest of all of us. From this title, I find it very unfair of those speakers who refer opponents of this law to amend the Police Act. I believe that you who refer us to this law have been present for the consideration of the Police Act, and I believe that if you do not, of course your professional colleagues will tell you that a few changes have been proposed, but this so-called state-of-the-art government has not taken them into account. So don't blame it if you try or even succeed with an argument of voting power to destroy all the other proposals and then afterward speak, yes, because you didn't try to do anything. This is not, in fact, true and not correct to those who have been preparing amendments to the laws, such as the Police Act to which you refer. I would like to point out that it seems to us to be completely, at least in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, unacceptable to try to make the role of police and city editors seem to be the same. Unacceptable so to the status of a police officer who has to give something for his status through not 160 hours of a fast course, but last but not least the entire education system. And if we look at the powers under the Law on Civil War and Peace, we see that in fact all the powers under the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are in the field of civil order and peace, not only in the field of municipal decrees, but even in the area of public roads, municipal roads, under Article 3 of the Act; and this is what the editors are supposed to do in a new way. But, gentlemen, probably all of us who are involved in traffic, either in the form of drivers or in the form of bikers, mopeds, not least of all pedestrians, we know that it takes much more knowledge to guide or maintain order and peace on the roads than 160 and a few hour courses. What will be created on the roads? In my opinion, chaos. No one with 160 hours of rapid course can master a system of control, at least public roads or municipal roads. The second dilemma set out in Article 3 of the Law on Public Order and Peace is, of course, intended to be highlighted. Many criticisms have emerged within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group and, above all, many questions about what this really means. Will they ensure public order and peace in the context of sports events by 160 hours? We need to know that this has been provided by so-called police specialists at the games so far. Do you not think that the degradation of people who have studied, educated, and dedicated their entire educational system to replacing them now with 160 working hours or school hours? On the other hand, the degradation of the police is not as important; the degradation of the protection of citizens and citizens or, rather, of citizens and citizens is more important. This is the main problem of this law and the tendency or tendencies of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the degradation of security, gentlemen and ladies. And whoever advocates the law that is before us today, even though we see that there are huge mistakes, it advocates less security within our country, rather than the Government of the Republic of Slovenia re-examine its ignorant attitude and change its ignorant attitude towards the Police Act, it creates such a paralytic in our country. And from this place, allow me to touch further the amendment that we have tabled within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, i.e. the amendment to Article 16. Believe me, when I listened to the presentations of the parliamentary groups, at least according to my assessment, it showed a lack of awareness of the amendment, for the first time, the second time not knowing the draft article 16 of the law or for the third time – not knowing the situation. In the National Party, we complement the third paragraph, which today says that the mayor will be informed no later than an hour. In the National Party, we replace this proposal with the third indent of the law by adding the word'suddenly' when it is caused by serious injury or death. Or it doesn't seem logical to you that we're trying to introduce with the amendment something that should be self-evident, not to report death only after 6, 8, 12 hours, but to do so immediately. Mr Zagorac spoke in presentation of the Group's positions on mobile phones. Allow me to supplement it from this place, the way of communication is not only possible via the cell phone, but through public telephones and through a lot of other means of communication, so there should be no technical problem for city officials either. And let me also point out from this city, at least to me an incomprehensible event in the capital of Slovenia, in Ljubljana and the relationship of the existing editors, by virtue of the Order on red tape by the Municipality of Ljubljana, but already existing powers. However, ladies and gentlemen, without offending them, do not respect them, they do not know how they will then exercise their powers under the general law or the umbrella of the law. Allow me only to tell you that, when I stepped in person, I will even say that I was following the warden because I wanted to inform him, but Mr. Director didn't want to look around here in the middle of the National Assembly, and when I asked him that because of the parking lot he had come to me after my assessment of the wrong parking, he replied to me: Send me a complaint by fax. By fax! Not by phone, not by calling anyone, was enough to tell him when he was in uniform in business time and with his equipment for punishment, but I was told, otherwise I would not have told this story if it had not happened to me: Send by fax to the house or to the seat of the editorial service, then we will be able to act, although the parking space number 1 on Tomšič Street was 100 meters away, these few meters, as far as I had to run after him. But of course I'm not the problem. The problem is the relationship. The problem is that city officials do not already know their powers in the current situation. By means of a bill that you are trying to bring through Parliament within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, you are not only demoralising them on the one hand, i.e. the police, those who have sacrificed their educational process, but you are destabilizing the issue of the security of citizens and citizens, or rather demolishing the entire system of preservation of public order and peace. And as my colleague Zagorac said, marriage is totally unacceptable to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good day to all Members and Members who thought it was worth attending today's debate on the third reading of the law which is extremely important for Slovenia's municipalities, and in particular for citizens and citizens in these municipalities. In doing so, I would say that I do not agree with the adoption of this law. I think that there is a hidden way in which there is a way to transfer authority, responsibility and, in particular, financial burden from a country to a municipality, not to talk about the first reading of this law, I have pointed out the house numbers that are recorded in the financial implications. I have now recalculated what 500 million tolars of costs are meant by the introduction of such editorial service in Slovenian municipalities, as enshrined in the Law on Editorial Service. If you were to count four million eight hundred thousand dollars as the initial cost, you would say one year's worth of radar, which I think is very low, if it's two million eight hundred thousand, and two million tolars for the first gear. It should be known that this equipment should be renewed, computerized at least once every three years and dressed once every two years. If four million eight hundred thousand were to be calculated, that would mean 104 editors for 500 million tolars. So, not half of the congregations would have a single editor if they went along with this logic. However, if we are counting only wages, but it would be about 175 or 178 editors, it is still less than one editor on average per municipality, as I have just heard that only the Municipality of Ljubljana now has 50 editors who have very limited powers of peaceful transport, some powers in monitoring the implementation of municipal decrees such as façades, cleaning of the surroundings of buildings, sewage, the use of public infrastructure and so on. What do I mean by that? I would like to say - as I explained in the first reading discussion - that the congregations that now have between 5 and 10 editors there will have to increase the number of editors at least for the number of police officers who have performed these tasks or should carry out these tasks in a particular congregation. Once again, it means for a medium-sized municipality, such as Izola, such as Piran, such as Ilirska Bistrica, such as many others, Logatec and other municipalities that have the city’s cores, which need to regulate also mobile traffic, which the police will no longer regulate on local roads, where the municipal authorities will have to supervise and take care of public order and peace, and a whole range of powers that are now the exclusive jurisdiction of the police. This means that the number of editors will increase by at least four times. In congregations that now employ 5, 6 to 10 editors, there are between 25 and 40 editors, depending on the scope of this supervision. Here I would like to join Mr Pečet, who specifically pointed out another serious problem - the maintenance of public order and peace at sports events, is a very, very serious task. Even if the officers are to connect with the police in such matters - and it is necessary to know that these are not just urban congregations that can have dangerous games where games can develop into dangerous because fans who do not know borders and measures come. In such cases, the police have been the one doing the work of order, and it has happened here that there have been severe, even physical consequences, even though the police have been present, and the security service, I don't know who else. Here, I think that this law is also about implementation itself - to talk about that there will be a editor who is already working in the editorial service, with a one-month course, because in those 166 hours it is also included, so at least I read, preparation for exam and exam. So it's not even going to take 166 hours. For this course, the minister takes - for the rules and so on - a year, while the congregations are expected to train all their existing and new editors in a year. I think that here there is a marked imbalance in the scope of the tasks entrusted by this law to the municipalities and in the scope of the tasks undertaken by the Minister of the Interior, so that, of course, this does not come to be interpreted in the National Assembly, because he has simply waived all the obligations to present this law, which is "de facto" his law, is the law of the Ministry of the Interior, because the whole law is intertwined and related to certain very clear facts. There is also something else going on with this law, which is that the Ministry of the Interior, "ergo" The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, intervenes explicitly in the jurisdiction of the municipalities. Indeed, the whole range of tasks to be performed by the editorial service in the municipalities is simply under direct supervision or direct supervision even by the Ministry of the Interior. The Mayor is in fact the only person who has jurisdiction to propose to the municipal council a security plan and supervises the work of the editors, legality, regularity, education management, rules on the red tape. This is all under the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. I think that a clearer takeover of power, I will say, the centralisation of power in one branch of the jurisdiction of the congregation could not have been carried out differently, more clearly than was done by this law. I believe that the autonomy of the municipalities has already been proposed and adopted by the Law on Community Financing, such as by not seeing anything in the Law on the financing of municipalities of any additional source of funding for a substantially increased red tape service. Unless you thought in proposing this law that with the existing number of editors or perhaps with a few "mandelians", as I would call it, additional editors, we would be able to satisfy and perform all those tasks now performed by hundreds and hundreds of police officers. I tell you that only in my congregation are there at least 20 policemen who carry out these tasks, which are to be carried out by the congregation’s new officials. Where do we get the money so we can pay these 20 editors to train them? Above all, the mayor's responsibility is, of course, that these officers are not only qualified to do their job, but also qualified to be able to protect themselves. It is said that the mayor's responsibility for the safety of his associates, the employees of the municipal administration is exactly the same as if he were a police commander, where his police officer could be exposed to any kind of violence. Who is the one who will tell the mayor where the border of his concern for the safety of the workers he has in the municipal administration is, or is there also security concerns with the Minister of the Interior? That would be a very meaningful question, in my opinion, and this answer would be very interesting. In fact, when the legality of work is monitored when the correctness of procedures is monitored, when editors are monitored, whether they have exceeded their powers or not, the Commission is at state level, the Minister who adopts the regulations is the Inspectorate, the Internal Inspectorate is called the Supervisory Officer. However, when it is necessary to ensure their own safety - and the fact is that, with such an extended scope of their tasks, these tasks are also very risky. Let's just say that the warden has to lock up an intruder, how he can do that. Now I'm going to conclude that my colleagues are going to save their time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Jagar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. I would still try to explain some things, otherwise we have explained them in a debate that has been going on around this law for almost some time now in all previous readings. Now, first of all, as far as the proposed amendment is concerned. I must say that this article has already been in the process of improvement. The initial proposal, if I recall correctly, was 24 hours and now this response time has been reduced to 8 hours, which means a time limit. Of course, I understand that "at once" is already covered in this eight-hour period and, of course, 8 hours is prescribed for the time to be notified. This does not mean that, of course, directors cannot or should not do so immediately or immediately, if you wish. As for the law itself and some of the indications that have been repeated today also in connection with the so-called withdrawal of the police and the transfer of tasks. However, I would stress that, of course, this law does not impose any new tasks, let us be correct. It is necessary to make it very clear that these tasks are already imposed by other legislation adopted in the National Assembly, both in this and in the previous mandate, and that, of course, this law is in fact only governing this area and this situation. The fact is, with the law on public order and peace, all these tasks have already been carried over and, of course, also with the Road Traffic Safety Act in the past period. If the police are withdrawing, they are certainly not based on this law, but on the contrary. I claim that, under this law, the police are returning to this area, at least until the Safety Programme is adopted, it is the responsibility of the police to make these allegations, or these articles of the Law on the Safety of Public Order and Peace and, of course, to implement them from road transport at that time. Which means a possible withdrawal, it can only mean an agreed withdrawal between the municipality and the police in that area, because a security programme must be adopted in which the part of the tasks to be carried out by the police must be clearly demarcated and the other part to be carried out by the municipal authorities, which we already have at the moment. And until the security programs are in place, we can't talk about the police withdrawing, but we can't talk about the other way around. With this law, we're bringing the police back to the field of action. As regards training and all these activities, one or two years is envisaged. Security programmes must be adopted within two years and we estimate that this time is the one where training and all other related and necessary things can be carried out, so that dedicated training is essentially the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. Otherwise, the current editorial services, in the other part of the performances they have, including training, are already funding the congregations, so that nothing new is added in this sense. However, as regards the financing itself, it is necessary to emphasise here several aspects related to the financing itself. Firstly, with a new law on the financing of municipalities after a two-year transitional period, since the budget has now been adopted for the next two years, the municipalities have the possibility - and I am sure that all of this will also be enforced - that through the new law on the financing of municipalities they will enter into an agreement with the State on the financing of tasks. Such tasks also, with each adoption of the next budget. This is very clear in the Law on the Financing of the Communities. However, as regards other activities in this area, it should also be said that last year and also this year appropriate spending has been raised to ensure 50% co-financing in those parts of municipal administrations where the so-called Joint Municipal Administrations are called. Yes, of course, individual congregations already have editorial services and are therefore also funding them for their own tasks. Finally, it means regulating this area to reduce, say, the costs of vandalism. We have received some estimates that these costs by some municipalities are extremely high. I am sure that the implementation of the editorial service will mean contributing to a greater order, it also means reducing such costs; and, last but not least, in some municipalities in this title, individual municipalities also have certain revenues. So that's one whole round package that's connected to the financing itself, and in this sense, it doesn't see that the municipalities would put some new financial resources through it. Once again, in fact, this law requires red tape to be reorganized within two years. And at this time for the budget in two years' time, through compliance with the Law on the Financing of the Communities, through their two associations representing their interests at this time will also negotiate for the budget in the next two years and also within this arrangement define any additional costs under this title. That much is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Well, people are wondering what we're talking about -- about the police, about their merging with those functions that they're currently performing. And about one of the "new," under the terms, the police, who will take over these functions, in two years, but will take over. Anyone who does not believe this should take into his hands once again the law, which states in Article 35, by the time the police do so and from when on the municipal authorities or the "reserved" police, under the slogans. And since it is true that Minister Žagar, which I regret in this situation, is merely carrying out what others have imposed on him, he may have to propose if he has found that the previous legislation is bad, the amendment of the Road Safety Act and the Law on Public Order and Peace, and many would support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister with co-workers! I have to say, as I have been before, I am also a little surprised today because the advocates of this law are mainly those -- also some mayors and MPs from an environment where they do not have these editorial services, but they also had this opportunity under the legislation so far; it is said that they do not have much experience. During this time, when we are adopting this legislation in the National Assembly related to public order and peace and the Law on the Civil Society, many things have happened to us in Slovenia. Of course, I mean the events that are related to Ambrus, and the events on the coast, in Isola in elections and in many other municipalities where people have self-organised and tried to resolve the situation themselves, past the professional state institutions. Personally, I think we are making two mistakes that could also result in an unpleasant situation and the continuation of a situation like that of the last month or two. The first is in this - and this is now in some way confirmed by the Minister - that no one in the coalition would listen to warnings when we adopted the Law on Public Order and Peace, pointing out that it is not good for the authorities to have certain powers and powers of the police. And today we have a law before us, which, in its 10th article through the indent, gives these police duties and powers that I think you absolutely should not, simply because this is a matter of a trained and trained police officer. Even with the police, we are often critical and criticise the exercise of these powers when it comes to young and inexperienced police. But if we are doing this, it would be far more prudent and wiser, as has been repeatedly mentioned to establish a city police or a municipal police force. This would also be logical, since we have almost completely removed the police in recent years from the area of residential areas, where they have kept an eye on the safety of citizens and have taken care of public order and peace. It would also be much wiser if, through this law, officials were already given powers and equipment to carry out traffic control, especially speed measurement, and not repressive police powers, if the police were also involved. This would place a heavy burden on the police and even less difficult work than in the case of the establishment of public order and peace through police repressive methods. And a second time. I believe that, according to the Constitution, it is the police who must ensure and protect human rights and freedoms and that this cannot be a red tape service. This is a complex, uniform, coordinated and guided activity throughout the country. And that's why there can't be any local community, mayor or anyone else left behind, or even when we're talking about whether it's some sort of security plan that we've done in the past. This is a serious error in the system, which can result in a wide range of red tape services with a different approach to ensuring these rights. Depending on the money, the skills and not least the qualifications of individual directors in individual municipalities. And third, which is of particular concern, I believe that by this law we are definitively allowing the police to leave the area, the environment where it has so far been the primary task of protecting public order and peace and the security of citizens in all respects. And if you ask me, it is also a green light that people will continue to organize themselves as they are now in the so-called village guards and try to protect their fundamental human rights and freedoms. We have already had a chance to see when they do not trust state authorities, as in this case the police, when they have even controlled their vehicles, can only increase this mistrust in the future. I am aware that the mayors are first among the first in each congregation and that the majority of the rulers are in their hands, the congregation council is only the other. Recent developments confirm this, but this is mainly about people who have political functions that deal with politics and not with expertise.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u27	Mr Kontic Boyan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u28	Thank you very much. There is little time left, so I will be brief in this debate. I have already said the essence in the introduction on behalf of the Group of Members. I heard one of the discussers say that this law or that we will take this law a step further. Step forward is not always very good if you stand, for example, at the edge of a swamp or a cliff, take a step forward, it can be a fateful matter. Since there is little time, I will focus mainly on two articles, which I have also discussed in the second reading. In Article 10, we have written down the possibility of using the physical force of means for locking and tying, a gas dispenser, hereinafter referred to as the term for coercive means. And Article 13, which states - the municipal editor may, at the scene of the event, retain the perpetrator of the offence and the person caught in the offence of which the perpetrator is prosecuted on official duty or on motion, the detention referred to in paragraph 5 of the preceding Article and in the preceding paragraph of this Article may last until the arrival of the policeman, but for a maximum period of one hour. I can't imagine how municipal officials will detain the perpetrator of the crime. It's so nice for you to talk for an hour, it probably won't work. They have the opportunity to bind it, under this law they have the possibility of using physical force, the means of locking. Thus, it will be most practical to place a lamp on a roadside lamp, unless the city’s municipalities, which will have to hold the congregation’s office, decide for themselves, and place containers in the city that will be useful for these matters. Even so, I would prefer to see or see an interesting look at the situation when that one hour runs out and when the orderly has to release the perpetrator. As this story unfolds in the end, it will be interesting to see. Probably the least interesting thing for the editor who will lead this process in this place, because it is very possible that, in the absence of police officers present, police officers will not be able to reach the position where the director will call them, but they will not be able to come because they have another job that they will consider to be more important than the one that has been transferred from their shoulders to municipal offices and mayors. We are talking about mayors, we are talking about powers, and of course we should also think about responsibility. It's not just jurisdiction, it's responsibility. The mayor will now be responsible for public order and peace, and this can be as interesting as the previous case I cited. The law has some inadequacies, as I said, and that is also why I will not support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. It's bad luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! As regards the law, I am increasingly and increasingly a supporter, including those whom I initially considered to be problematic, particularly in their implementation. The problem with municipal or municipal editors is that in many cases it is easy to obtain appropriate documents, evidence that would point to the perpetrator or prove and allow the proceedings against the perpetrator of the crime, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Offences, but often municipal officials, municipal officials, as we have told them so far, have not been able to identify individuals. [[...]] This will also allow measures or powers, such as the security review of a person and then the detention and some coercive means, to enable, in cases not involving peaceful traffic or cases where it is possible to act on the basis of a vehicle and a registration plate against a non-performing perpetrator or against the owner, in order to identify such an offender, to obtain appropriate evidence of action and, of course, to act. This is one thing that seems very important to me, and that these measures are also so possible that I do not say to the least threatened, and that the perpetrators are aware of it. In municipalities there is a huge infringement of, say, young people and those who somehow interfere with public property in a way that causes harm or that interferes with the environment and causes damage and costs, even disproportionate costs; and such offences are without the necessary additional powers to document, identify the offender and then, of course, take appropriate legal and formal action. In this regard, I support such solutions in the law. After all, congregation officials will be able to act more decisively or in some cases at all. Of course, for this to happen it will be necessary to further train the editors, some more, some less. In the follow-up to regulatory adjustments, I propose that some more delicate interventions, as well as on-calls, may be possible at a time when it is more difficult to provide on-call services by the municipal authorities, and that certain matters may be transferred by public authority to the competent authorities and also to all the regulations of the bound private agencies, which are very similar, difficult services they are already carrying out. It is practical in this respect that these guards work primarily and very thoroughly at a time when municipal officials perform more heavily, it is said during the night and during the holidays. I don't agree with the police stepping down. I do not understand this term; in fact, the law also confirms itself through a security plan or security programme, the partnership and responsibility of both the police and the municipalities are being strengthened. The advantage of such regulation and the transfer of certain cases more to the municipal authorities will offer the police to deal with the more difficult parts of the investigation, monitoring and identification of evidence of crimes, not to say worse crimes. In doing so, I see the greatest part of the involvement of the municipal authorities with the police, where it is possible to detect and prevent such possible crimes or preparations for crimes by informing and concentrating data at the police level. Actually, I don't know if it makes sense to discuss the amendment itself, because we are talking more about syntax or semantics of the Slovenian language. I think it is normal for the head of the municipal authorities to inform the relevant ones responsible in the congregation and at the police as soon as possible. In such worse cases, this is perfectly normal, since in these cases it is necessary to call the relevant other services, which must report it later. Such an amendment is, in fact, totally unnecessary, and it is difficult to explain it properly, to act and report without delay. I won't even support the amendment, but I will support the adoption of the law. I think in any case it's an improvement, you might even say a substantial improvement. All the consequences of such improvements - financial, operational - in fact, the government will, with adequate financial support and operational support from the police, in some way also help municipalities to properly train municipal governments with these additional tasks and thus start assisting the police in sanctioning, detecting sanctions for those offences that have been less noticeable so far and have not been sanctioned in the municipalities. I'm saying everything that's out of order and now also road traffic. Of course, I would like the municipalities to gain, for example, the powers to detect, say, violators who exceed the prescribed speed, so that the municipalities can take over this detection and punishment and, of course, that it would then be a source for the municipal treasury. This would avoid certain measures that also cost and cause problems to drivers who comply with the rules, contain different humps, measures to limit the speed of driving, etc. This, however, I think, can be achieved by continuing to amend the rules and also some regulations. I'll support the marriage, but not the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! A few things, or new findings, came together. The first thing I have to mention, given the powers that new municipal officials are supposed to have, seems to me to be a simple transfer of responsibility from the police to the city. If we look at the law on JRM, public order and peace, we will be able to call in certain cases either the municipal editor or the police. If one or the other cannot do so, there will be a confusion of responsibility. The hierarchy of legal acts, Mr Minister, as you have stated in your implementation, the municipal decree sets out something, and here I fully agree that the municipalities should determine for themselves what they will do and what they will not do. However, if the law provides for something, we must absorb the basic elements of the law in the municipal decree. You also mentioned 210 municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia. It is true that 210 municipalities are in the Republic of Slovenia, we have a transitional period of two years. Which one won't. We also have small congregations that also do not meet all the law - bound powers, and I am very interested in who will be the editor there. I am confident that it will be best for these congregations that a local matador who controls the entire congregation will be there. We know that. Don't shut your eyes, we know. Some French, Jože, or Peter control the whole scene in a certain small congregation, and I went to very small congregations. Third thing, officer. A police officer, a trained man, a trained man to use everything the law of the police requires him to do. Today we give similar powers to municipal officials who will spend a month on this, and probably not you, but the Minister of the Interior, who is not here today, still remembers those times when we introduced, and we said, we need more cops, and we did "Schnellkurs" for six months and you're a cop. You know, these cops didn't behave. At least not in a certain community environment. If I touch on the presentation of the largest coalition party on the law that we are dealing with, sometimes silence is gold, or if someone hears a matter, it can be much better than interpreting it here, even when it comes to not comparing the police with city officials, not even when we are talking about the powers of city officials, and when we are talking about the subjective intentions of the individual city director, that he may be able to inform something. You know, you're not doing the government any favors. I understand the Minister, I really understand him, believe me, because in this case he's not even a bit in charge of the law that we're considering today. It would be easier if Minister Mate sat here and told us that crime is growing because crime is growing and we have cops who are not doing their job, we're going to start a para-police. It'd be a lot easier. Today we have put all of this on the Secretary of Public Administration. Eight hours, the minister you mentioned is also a time limit, do you think? If someone hurts someone, gets hurt, kills them in an extreme case, what the law stipulates, is eight hours enough? This isn't the time, it's time for someone to go for coffee, have a beer, and I'll say, "screw up," and he says, "oh, I might have hurt somebody." No, the amendment of the Slovenian National Party is one that says "immediately", says immediately, not eight hours, immediately! Which means, at the moment someone says I'm hurt, the mayor gets informed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Nice greeting on my part, too! I give my word to Mr. Friday. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u34	Thank you, Chairman. I myself will support this amendment proposed by the Slovenian National Party. Not because it would now be the solution of the whole marriage, but because I believe that at least in this segment it improves the law. It would be more accurate and more appropriate not to consider the law at all and not to have to talk about everything we are saying today. This is where my Minister Zhagar made his mistake. In his previous speech, Sam also stated that we already have the elements for the introduction of such powers of municipal editorial services. We have a red tape service, which is a fact, and he said, we have adopted the Law on Public Order and Peace, which also gives us this task. If the Minister had previously thought about the consequences of what would later warm him up, he would probably have to react to the Public Order and Peace Act and simply tell his Minister's colleague Matthew that these are solutions that are not good and that the police should deal with it, but not to involve the ministry led by Mr Žagar. But that's the way it is. So, in this coalition, the ministers obviously can't communicate with each other, convince themselves, convince themselves, and therefore must insist, as in this case Mr. Žagar, on a solution that I am sure is not good enough. Not to mention the Secretary of State who, at the end of the year, is saying good-bye to a traveller who, in my opinion, will at least warm up to him when he starts to mayor or when he realizes what he is going to do with this law or what he needs to do when he sits down in a chair so tightly that he finds that he has to provide additional resources in the budget to provide equipment, to provide funds for the training or education of these officials, and that he will never, in fact, have such a ruler who would correspond to what he has in mind with the law. When we, or when you have adopted the Law on Public Order and Peace, have made that mistake that is now weakening and we are trying to somehow remedy the provisions of this law, but I do not think that the law can actually be adequately remedied. I spoke to many mayors during the previous session. These mayors have now begun to formalise, perform their mayoral function, and they are all actually facing these doubts as to how to impose this red tape on them to benefit from it. And I have to say, at this point, there's not a mayor I've been talking to, who doesn't realize that this is one big nonsense, that this is a thing that's not good, that this is a thing that will have some half-solution, that it's going to require extra funds, and in the end, there was no real effect of it. Here is the mistake that you did not speak well enough with the most representative authorities in the local environment to talk to the Minister of the Interior, who simply wanted to get rid of something, some responsibilities that are perfectly clear to him; responsibilities for creating conditions for public order and peace in some environments, but not all equally problematic, of course. There are some environments where, as Mr Štebe obviously thinks, these services are properly managed and there are no problems, but there are environments where this is to be felt. And if we are talking about these environments, indisputably Maribor is one of the environments in which all the citizens of Maribor feel that, as we say, the police or he used the term police, came down. The fact is that the police in some problematic situations are simply not available because it is not enough to take action in these cases, and these are cases in the late hours when they are simply handed over to the police on patrols, especially and more in traffic control, and they are not at those points in Maribor that are neurological, which are problematic where excesses occur. Then you find out there's no one there, and there's still no one. At two o’clock in the morning, who will arrange for a red - collar service so that they can intervene so that they can have the means to provide the equipment that will help them to relax from various entertainments? And no one can give us that assurance. Perhaps in any idyllic, smaller environment, this role of the police is unnecessary, and the role of the editor is unnecessary. This is why this marriage is bad, and this marriage should not be seen by light. But when we talk about these environments, how they're going to deal with them, they're going to do things so differently that we're not actually going to have a uniform pattern. And what is our constitutional obligation or what the Constitution guarantees that the protection and protection of the inhabitants of this country must be uniform for the whole area will not be achieved, it will not be ensured, because some of the environment of this service will be organised at the appropriate level, some will not be able to do so. For this reason, we are convinced that this would be easier and much more accurate and much more consistent and properly regulated by special police departments concerned with local security, for the local area, and would have only and only these tasks, but not that someone could move them to the Schengen borders, so that someone could move them to the environment in which they actually have a different task, rather than in the area of security in the local environment. That is why I myself will support this amendment, and I predict that I will not uphold the law in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Since there are some of them, it is already Mrs. Zalokar Orazem's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I have already said in my presentation of the position of the Member Club that we are much more committed in the club to establishing special units or departments within police stations working in the public order and peace segment. I'm really surprised, Mr. Jagar, you were my mayor's colleague and I know that you were known for your reasonable, rational decisions. I really don't understand how it happened to you that you went to these cans that were prepared for you in the Ministry of the Interior, because this story with the municipal government -- and I think you've heard quite a few opinions here today from experienced mayoral, former or current people who have great experience in this. It's some kind of doctrine that's been being carried out by the police since 1996. That's when it started, then the first police retreat was from the local level, and the story continues gradually. Of course, in practice, it has been used by police officers for all these years, and they will now finally withdraw from local life on legal grounds. We have already been observing the extremely bad effects of this doctrine since 1996, when police officers who cared for certain environments were abolished when police officers lived with their congregation, when they also came mainly from this environment, now most police officers are mixed up, leaving the congregation when they complete those hours. And all of this proves to be a complete lack of confidence in local life. They don't know people, they don't know situations, they don't know critical points - they don't know anything. And of course, the best answer to all of this is that they are actually gone and that they are gone and that the local police should take their place; in a way, of course, with responsible conduct, especially the mayors and the municipal councils. An extremely dangerous event that will excite us in the coming years with extremely dangerous consequences. Mr. Minister, it's not right to say that we let all this go with the Law on Public Order and Peace. We strongly opposed this law in our House of Representatives. We objected to the spread. Back then, of course, you weren't sitting, the Ministry of the Interior was sitting there, and they were completely deaf to everyone. For their plan has already been made: they have first adopted amendments to the Law on Public Order and Peace. At this session, when we adopt the Law on Municipal Government, you are in front of there, and now you have to look for such or other arguments to continue this story. I think it is also relatively cynical to ensure that after two years, when this is established and when it starts to work properly, the municipalities provide additional funding via associations. Then you may be gone in two years, perhaps you will be gone, and then they may arrange for them to choose to negotiate these funds. If we were a good minister, we would have planned and anticipated such a solution in the law, but not in the law. In the marriage, everything on the congregation’s shoulders is already in place, for it will not be necessary to do so in two years’ time, but it will be necessary to start with equipment, facilities, staff, purchases, training and so on, that this matter will work or work in two years’ time. I am appalled and, in fact, I do not understand the coalition itself, which brings so peacefully into Parliament a law with about 150 new jobs. If we had worked with the Ministry of the Interior in this law and directed 150 police officers to work at the local level, then I would have said that it was at least a neutral operation. In this way, all police officers will remain in their posts, in the functions of the country with significantly smaller tasks and competences, and the municipalities will look for new officials in the Slovenian staffing area and try to train and bring them into this extremely demanding new business. These are major new financial commitments. Anyone who covers either the state or the congregation will be covered by public finances. And I believe that bringing these samples to Slovenia, which you may have seen abroad, with local police, with city police, and so on, does not necessarily mean that we are carrying them in the same way. Slovenia is a relatively small country and has small municipalities. And I said before, maybe Ljubljana, maybe Maribor - everything else will also be an extraordinary organizational effort, because your answers are: will more congregations organise one editor together, which is their legislation Who will then supervise all of this? [[...]] How will all of this take place? Why are they breaking up the police, why are we letting it decommission itself if the police could do this? And in the first place is public order and peace everywhere in the world, and it would be good for the police to be in charge in Slovenia and not the mayor as it is now. And last but not least, when you listed the powers, not only in the field of public order and peace, the police also withdraw from the road traffic segment, as the new ones will also be responsible for traffic safety on all local roads and settlements. Thus, they withdraw not only from public order and peace, but also from transport matters within the settlement and local roads, which are the most important within the individual municipality. If there's a highway and a regional or a highway past the congregation, it'll be a police matter, everything else stays on the back of the congregation. And here I think it's a completely wrong doctrine and a completely wrong concept for us to agree to it. That you have problems, however, also speaks a document that I have in my hands with the Ministry of the Interior since 7.12. where you coordinated the national programme for the prevention and suppression of crime. And, Minister, this time you've reacted early enough, but if you look at this document, you've also been asked by gentlemen from the Ministry of the Interior -- or local communities that are under your emergency -- to translate a whole range of things. In the area of crime, too, they wanted to be very active in participating in the congregations, not there to talk, but even in a segment where they were even supposed to provide funds and through municipal officials had certain functions in curbing crime. We are now in the third segment: not only transport, not only public order, but also here you were "wanted to drive the thirsty through the water." Unfortunately or fortunately, you have reacted here and, although I see, according to a document which is publicly available, the comments, thank God, have been taken into account. Because of your reaction - this time correct and fine, but what they wanted and what they wanted to put back on the shoulders of the congregations, it is also seen in the crime segment that the police actually have one big plan: give everything away. Because they have financial problems, they put them on others, the responsibility to put them on others, to withdraw and to function only on, I'll say, those things that are already in their jurisdiction anyway. On the other hand, they want to maintain their influence. If we look at how the municipal security programme will be adopted as a basic document, on the basis of which it will also decide what to do, it must be aligned with the Ministry of the Interior. How will this coordination take place with 213 municipalities in Slovenia? 213 municipalities will be coordinated with the Ministry of the Interior in municipal security programmes. I would also like to see how this will take place in practice. And once again, I'm alerting you to two. Municipal officials, there won't be many, 200, 250, we'll see, they'll have the dispenser, the means to tie and lock and nothing else. I must say that I am surprised that we are sending them into such precarious situations where police officers in bulletproof vests, with special vehicles, with special knowledge, with special means, even with weapons, the officers will find themselves unprotected in these situations, individuals themselves. The police have the whole system - I have been taught - how to leave in a dangerous situation, how to protect myself, how to protect each other, etc.; the editors have nothing, maybe you'll teach them in those 166 hours, but I don't know how they'll behave in such border situations. I'm afraid of them if I were the mayor myself, I'd be concerned about how this is going to happen, not to say how I would only take power with great fear - if there were any bodily harm if there were any irregular reactions. The appellate body is the mayor - with what knowledge? With what legal knowledge we are passing on to a place for which the entire system operates on the police, the system of internal control works. Today, I have read that even the prosecution is thinking that it will introduce a new body within the prosecutor's office, which will in some way oversee this very area of the correct or incorrect functioning of a repressive body. Here the mayor will decide whether or not to use everything, use too much or too little, do the right thing or do not do the right thing. All this will be on the mayor's side, with all his work he will now deal with how and what to do with the editor; which would not be wrong if these editors, under these legal powers, were not to place in my assessment a totally inappropriate situation, a difficult situation, a disputed situation for which they are not prepared and trained. They're not trained and they won't. I think it would be the right concept if we changed the Police Act and introduced it into a security segment where we have problems in Slovenia and we perceive them, special special departments that would operate at local levels that would be organically linked to local communities, where we would also participate, as the sheriff and the mayor may do in America; so that the police would do what we have and pay for it, and would be more active than to withdraw. On the other hand, we should also adopt the Law on Red tape, but in substantially smaller frameworks, to complement what the mayors would tell you that there are problems in practice. Some of these things really are here, but not to the extent that you're doing with this law. I regret, however, that even after the third reading, it is not obvious that a bad, dangerous, harmful solution is being adopted, a "bear service" for municipalities that do not need it to that extent, have never been requested and expected. And above all, there will be a mix of powers, as in the case of Lipa, when, without any reason, they also prayed to the mayor under his nose and demanded: what did he do. In fact, the mayor had nothing else to do but give a letter or an initiative to close the place; others should do the rest. But the mayor was also asked. With these powers, everything else will now be asked, and if I were still the mayor, Mr Minister, I would then refer them to you to pray to the microphone, because it is possible to give authority and responsibility to others. And there will be a lot of such microphones in front of the county mouth; there will be questions, but the mayors will swim as best they can, as they know and know. That's not good.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. However, I must repeat again what we have already said several times, and it is obvious that it has been overheared all the time. Once again, we do not introduce any police in any way with this law, but we are talking only about red tape. Again, I repeat that the answers or answers to what you have just stated are to a large extent written in the security programme. Indeed, the tasks are not carried out through this law, but it is already through the adopted legislation and the security programme that will very clearly distinguish between the powers of the police and the authorities. And then the mayor will be able to answer the congregation very clearly in any case, in accordance with what will be agreed upon. As long as, I repeat, these things are not agreed on until the security programme is confirmed, even with an agreement of course, the police are obliged to carry out these tasks, which are now written so that one or the other can be responsible. I am convinced that we are moving forward in this respect, but far from now the whole Law on Public Order and Peace will be implemented by the regime. The police are still the first and priority to carry out these tasks and the editorial service, in line with the agreement to follow up on the security programme, in the part where the desire to act in individual segments has already been many times. These are, of course, significantly smaller matters than what you were talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u39	Thank you very much. And I'm already inviting Mr. Mikolitch to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. It is my view that it is somehow understandable that, from the point of view of the local communities, we can see differently, especially those representatives of local communities or mayors, where they have already had a branch office, or those who have not had an organization, either as a community body or independently in the congregation. It is perfectly understandable that we have a different view today at the third reading of this law. I am convinced that those who did not have organised regulation under the current legislation do not really know what problems this particular service has been dealing with in carrying out its tasks. I can say that the congregations that we had organized in the field service have identified shortcomings, as has been said many times today, in terms of authority. In the final stage, the editor was, on the one hand, a director who was able to carry out certain tasks of peaceful transport, or in part carry out certain tasks, which the local community would certainly have, on the one hand, the municipal administration, as well as citizens and citizens, wanted to be carried out - but he was not authorized to do so. Therefore, we cannot say today that we are now expelling the police by this law, that the police have done this or should have implemented it, but have not implemented it. Today or the last time we heard, many people have found that police in a number of local communities are too small, which is probably true, and in some congregations too much, because there are also facts. But not too much from this point of view that they are not needed there, I have discussed this for the last time or explained it. Surely, at the future Schengen border in this area, there are far more police than in central Slovenia. And in this area where many police officers are present, I must also tell you that there has been some exemplary cooperation between local communities and the police so far. But I can see for myself that the local community may have had little cooperation with the police in this particular segment. I know that we had some police council where certain representatives of local communities were members, right after this purpose of ensuring public order and peace. I believe that this law - especially in view of the need for municipalities to have a municipal security programme - is the solution to these problems. I truly imagine and also expect and, in fact, this is one of the tasks of the mayor or the municipal administration to adopt that optimal municipal security programme, which will on the one hand ensure an equivalent performance, both by the municipal officials on the one hand and by the police on the other, that this will not mean that the police will now be removed from these activities, which they will actually have to carry out in the future. And if we can make a good deal of it, it will certainly bring first and foremost, or much, for the benefit of citizens and citizens. Also with regard to professional assistance in the preparation of the municipal security programme, or this is to say that the Ministry of the Interior will in fact provide professional assistance, I do not imagine that the Ministry of the Interior for all 210 municipalities in Slovenia will coordinate an individual municipal security programme. However, it will offer its professional assistance on professional grounds, so that the municipalities or local communities will also adopt, in practice, a useful municipal security programme. That is why I, as well as in our Group of Members, will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Maybe the Minister wants a word in this debate, and then we have another article and one amendment? Then I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on Article 16 and the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Anybody want a word? Still, I want you to formally sign up. I'm opening the application. If the minister wants to discuss it, let him show it with his hand. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u42	Thank you for saying, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Honourable President. [[...]] Respectable present. Since I'm running out of time, I'm not going to be able to explain the amendment, I hope the government and the government parties do. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u43	Time's really up. And since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendment, which, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.35. Let me add here a note under the line that the remainder of the time in amendments is unfortunately not shared. This concludes this agenda item. With the Minister, I thank my colleagues for their presence. And we're moving on to 11. Agenda item - This is on the exploratory proposal for a resolution on the National Road Safety Programme for the period 2007-2011, entitled "Collect for greater safety", EPA 999-IV. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Between us, I welcome Mr Bozič and his colleagues, and I also invite him to the floor for an additional explanation of the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u44	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The resolution on the national road safety programme 2007-2011, referred to as the "Communication for Greater Safety", prepared in our ministry, contains a vision and objective, identifies priority areas and sets out measures to ensure greater and more effective road safety. The primary objective of the programme is to strive to reduce the worst consequences of road traffic accidents, which are fatalities. The most extensive chapter in the proposal for a national programme is measures which are divided into four main areas: human behaviour, transport environment, vehicles and the institutional field. In the coming decade, the European Union has been striving to halve the number of dead on the roads. The European objective is also pursued by our national programme, which envisages the preservation of 600 human lives by the end of 2011. Data on the number of deaths this year on this day 18.12.2006 show that 251 people have died on our roads, which is the same as the number of deaths in the previous year. In view of the last tragic events when seven people died in two traffic accidents, we are not satisfied with the situation, especially since we have a very ambitious and difficult long-term goal to achieve. Even in the European Union, with the trend of reducing the dead, if the EU continues to do so, only 35% of the target will be achieved or achieved by the end of 2010. At the Ministry of Transport, we have already prepared an implementation plan, a similar plan for ensuring road safety in 2007, which also means the implementation of the national programme. The resolution on the national road safety programme for the period 2007-2011, "Common for greater safety", was considered at the 19th meeting of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport, where certain amendments were proposed, which were fully supported by the Ministry of Transport. Those amendments specifically address the problems or eliminate the dilemmas that we have been alerted to by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and constitute a alignment with the opinion of both the Legislative and Legal Services and individual members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport. Dear Members and Members! I propose that the Resolution on the National Road Safety Programme 2007-2011, "Common for greater safety", be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u45	Minister, thank you. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. You have received the report on the table and the report will also be presented by a member of the committee, colleague Srečko Hvauc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. On the basis of Articles 42, 109, and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Transport Committee, as a parent working body, submits the following report to the Proposal for a Resolution on the National Road Safety Programme for the period 2007-2011, which we call "Common for greater safety". At its 19th meeting, on 6.12.2006, the Transport Committee considered a motion for a resolution on a national road safety programme for the period 2007-2011 prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia pursuant to Article 17 of the Road Safety Act and forwarded it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption. The Legislative and Legal Service also drew up an opinion on the motion for a resolution. In the context of the general debate, the members of the Committee considered that the national road safety programme presented was a quality document which would need to be consistently implemented in all the areas of prevention, curative and repression in order to achieve the objectives set. Particular attention should be paid to preventive measures to improve road safety, such as measuring speed on individual road sections, promoting greater use of public transport means, upgrading of the cycling network in the Republic of Slovenia and regulating and modernising the road network, in particular state and urban roads. The members of the committee devoted part of the debate to the introduction of satellite traffic control provided by the Galileo programme, which ensures both active traffic management and the payment of tolls in the free traffic. Particular attention will have to be paid to raising awareness of young participants in transport through training programmes, from kindergarten to secondary school, and practical training for drivers and building safety training sites should also be changed and updated. In the second reading, the Committee also adopted amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the DeSUS, to Chapter 1 - Introduction, to Chapter 3 - Vision on Road Traffic Safety, to Chapter 4 - Observations and Objectives, to Chapter 5 - Strategy for achieving the objectives and implementation of the measures, to Chapter 6 - Human behaviour and to Chapter 8 - Carriers of the Programme. He also accepted his amendment to subsection 6.1 — human conduct. Finally, the Transport Committee, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, voted on and adopted all parts of the motion for a resolution together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u47	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups on the motion for a resolution, which will be presented by Dr Marko Pavliha's colleague, the position of the Member's Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for both the word and the replacement. Dear Mr. Minister with fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members! First of all, I'm sorry that I'm in a bad voice, which is for health reasons and not for client reasons. In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we will be happy to support the resolution, because it is a good document, but we would like to serve with some comments and suggestions, because unfortunately we have recently found that the trend of improving road traffic safety has stopped, has not improved or even started to fall. A few hours ago, I was informed that on December 18, 2005, today, the number of road casualties was 250 and today, 2006, 251. Of course, it's one person, but every life is extremely precious, and we just wish that the coming holidays of this piece wouldn't go any further. It is essential that in such an important area as road safety, we take into account what is already coming out of the title; therefore, joint efforts. And under common efforts, we imagine an interdisciplinary and international approach. It is not enough to deal with transport safety only by the Ministry of Transport, but also by working with other ministries and other administrative bodies, the Ministry of Health, Finance, Defence, in particular we have in mind the Protection and Rescue Authority, and we could also list, as well as similar competent authorities within the European Union and beyond. At this point, we reiterate our regret that we have abolished the Council for Preventive, Raising and Road Transport Education and that we have not replaced its powers with a special agency at the same time. Part of the competence, as we know, is now under the auspices of the Ministry of Transport and part of the powers under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior. We hope and expect the Ministry to ensure the smooth functioning or realization of all those tasks previously performed by the Council and, of course, to provide adequate resources. As has already been said in the Transport Committee report, further consideration should be given to what might be called the State's concern for transport safety. And for the first time in this place, I publicly wish that this concern would once see the light of the world in the Constitution. If we have a statutory duty in the Constitution to ensure and care for a clean environment, then I think it is a matter of road safety at least in such an important area if not even more. Some data: in the EU around 40,000 innocent road victims die annually, around 300,000 in the world, in Slovenia in recent years somewhere between 250 and 300. Scary, if not catastrophic data. And this duty of the State to take care of transport security would not only mean a set of preventive, curative and repressive measures, but also a little more, a duty of improvement. Let me mention here what has already been said, the setting up of static radars, the setting of radars to measure speed on certain road sections, the maximum use of public transport, which is one of the central areas of transport policy, cycling, walking, the best transport infrastructure, the use of taxis, in particular in the coming days, the awareness of drivers or groups of friends to the extent that they decide in various parties not to intervene on alcohol, and they could also list. All of this brings us to another very important topic, namely, the introduction of transport ethics at all levels of the school or school programme; primary schools, especially secondary schools, since young people and young people are already deciding on the first steps in their vehicles and, of course, onward. And on the Committee, I proposed that, in the near future, the Ministry of Transport and the Transport Committee should organise a joint international consultation on transport ethics and transport security. If I understand correctly, the Minister has supported this idea and this idea will also be realized in the coming months. And to the end. Let me say that it might only be an indication to consider more concrete measures as well as the quantification of objectives that would achieve the European Road Safety Action Programme by 2010. We miss this in the resolution, but we still believe that the Ministry will be able to implement this through the following measures. As once again, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will be happy to support the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u49	Thank you. My colleague, Jenko Weber, will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u50	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! When considering the motion for a resolution on the national road safety programme for the period 2007-2011, we can see that the National Assembly considers it too late. It is too late because we have already had in Parliament a law or a bill on amendments and additions to the road safety law, which we have intervened in this area in an uncontrolled way, so that we have actually extended the time needed to take the vehicle to technical inspection. So this deadline has been extended to four years without serious analyses being carried out before and without trying to really pursue the objectives of this resolution's strategy, which speaks of ensuring that the objectives set and their achievement will be brought into line with the one set out in Europe, and that this document creates the basis for joint planning of the implementation of the programme and the inclusion of all possible activities and entities that owe or want to contribute in any way to road safety. It thus allows for synergies in the work of all authorities in this area in the continuous direction, coordination of controls and evaluation of all further strategies. Therefore, this strategy is somehow facilitating cooperation at all levels, in particular the professional public, in order to achieve the best possible goals in road safety. For example, the opinion of the Association for Transport and Communications in the Chamber of Economic Affairs concerning the previous Road Safety Act was that no one had even invited them to prepare this law, let alone to try to understand and take into account the warnings they had given. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that this resolution is really coming too late or that some of the measures that have been shown to be necessary for reducing administrative obstacles introduced before this resolution are likely to be intentional. However, I hope and hope that the results, which will also be monitored in these procedures in order to prolong the review of vehicle technical integrity, will be taken seriously after the adoption of this resolution and that there will be no more unilateral solutions that deviate far from what is enshrined in this resolution's strategy. So we want to significantly increase the same security due to human behaviour in this resolution as well as due to the transport environment itself due to the condition of vehicles and, last but not least, to ensure that the institutional area is properly regulated in Slovenia. Well, all these areas are crucial that we can achieve a goal that is somehow written down: a vision of nothing in Europe. I think that human behaviour as such also shows that in practice there are many problems in whether it is possible to reach an agreement with police officers, whether it is possible to measure speed on local roads and not just on state roads. So far, it has been extremely difficult to achieve such a measure on local roads, mainly on national roads. That is how I think that this resolution should also talk more about cooperation in this area and how to actually ensure this more intensive cooperation. In fact, traffic mitigation measures are one of the most effective measures to improve the situation in settlements, near schools and so on, where drivers often forget that they are not alone in this environment. In the case of institutional measures, however, this fact could again be highlighted by the fact that it has been approached by the Council for Road Traffic Prevention and Training within the Ministry itself, and I hope that this area, too, will be covered in a newly regulated area, in particular in a way that this Council will be truly self-sufficient and sufficiently capable of implementing those measures and proposals that relate both to measures on vehicles and to human behaviour and that there will not be too many restrictions on the functioning of this Council. In this way, I hope that some of the new tasks that have been assigned will also be carried out more qualitatively in the implementation of this resolution, and we are also looking forward to these concrete measures somehow. Above all, we wish that these measures would not be as I mentioned in the Road Safety Act when this resolution was not followed today. We will therefore, as such, support the resolution and expect concrete measures to be taken as soon as possible to implement this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u51	Thank you very much. However, I invite Mr Horvata to the floor on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, coworkers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In a very sad spirit, we started this debate, of course, two of my forerunners spoke about the dead this year on Slovenian roads. This is a statistic that certainly hurts everyone, but I would like to see a little more of it myself when we consider such an important document, which I hope will contribute to greater safety in Slovenian road transport. Traffic safety is certainly one of the basic qualities of the transport system. Any traffic participant or user of a transport service wishes to have such a system that meets its needs and expectations. The quality of life of all citizens and citizens depends on the level of road safety. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that a number of technical measures have been taken to increase transport safety, but we are also convinced that we have done little and do little to call road users to a greater concentration during driving, to a greater tolerance for other road users, and, above all, we are under-emphasis on the importance of transport culture, transport ethics and solidarity. Ensuring greater security can be achieved by encouraging road users to behave more responsibly, respect for regulations and creating awareness of the importance of traffic safety, the provision of safer vehicles and road infrastructure, which can and must be applied by planners, manufacturers and operators, maintenance and appropriate surveillance services. The established national road safety programme wants to create conditions for Slovenian companies and individuals to be involved in the risk reduction process of accidents and the risk of injury, since only together will we achieve a higher level of safety with combined strength and at the same time reduce the negative consequences of traffic accidents for all road users. In a complex system, road safety depends on responsible behaviour of an individual, educational and preventive organisations, media, repressive and judicial authorities, civil society, businesses, the management of self-government local communities and, last but not least, the state authorities. Everyone has their share of responsibility for greater security and can contribute to its achievement, but the objectives set by 2011 can only be achieved by concerted action and joint effort. Man is the weakest member of the transport system, as his faults or conscious breaches of the rules contribute significantly to the occurrence of accidents. That is why they need to be prevented and reduced by individual measures or the whole system. The measures are thus directed directly at road users, for example, by transport education, preventive actions and coercive measures, or indirectly, by changing transport infrastructure, for example, by measures to calm transport around schools and residential settlements that prevent hazardous behaviour and others. In order to change the behaviour of road users, the national programme introduces individual and related measures and specifically focuses on some very vulnerable groups of participants and risk factors. For political coordination and supervision of the implementation of the programme, the Government will set up a Council of Ministers to monitor the national programme. This reflects the seriousness and will of the vision that this resolution sets itself up so far. The synergies of the national programme will only be achieved by improving our behaviour in the role of road users, by establishing adapted rules of programmes and measures, including the public and private sectors, in order to increase coordination and participation in programmes and measures to reduce the number of road fatalities. In the New Slovenia Group, we understand the motion for a resolution on the national road safety programme for 2007 to 2011 also as an invitation or invitation to Slovenian society and individuals to participate in the process of reducing the risk of accidents and injuries. Only together, we will achieve a higher level of security with united forces and at the same time reduce the negative consequences of road traffic accidents on road users. The New Slovenia Group will support the motion for a resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Janc has the following word on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! We are considering the draft resolution on the national road safety programme for 2007-2011 at the right time. But at the right time, because we are in December, which is particularly famous for the blood tax imposed on our roads. Slovenia is after transport safety, taking into account mortality, among the EU's most vulnerable Member States. Although the statistical number of deaths in traffic accidents in Slovenia is declining, it is still too high. It is of particular concern that young drivers and people die in traffic accidents. In addition to death, data on serious traffic injuries are also important, as many of the participants in traffic accidents have suffered severe physical injuries that have a life-long impact. The proposed resolution follows an improvement in road safety in the next time period. It is crucial, in our view, to raise the security culture to which education and education in particular can contribute. Preventive measures are key. Repressive measures in themselves have no real effect, although they are also necessary and necessary. With the proposed resolution, Slovenia follows the European target of reducing the number of dead, which means that in 2010 the number of victims of traffic accidents would be halved in Slovenia. To achieve this objective, it requires both the quality work of road network operators and the compliance of road users. In particular, it is necessary to protect weaker road users. In our view, the proposed strategy sets out and directs road safety activities comprehensively. Strategic tasks are identified to increase transport safety, both at national and local level. Cooperation between the two levels and joint action are essential if we are to achieve the objectives set effectively. The resolution of measures to date is divided into four main areas. These are: human behaviour, transport environment, vehicles and institutional area. I'm sure the first of these is the most crucial. There is a need for more attention to be paid to transport education and to measures to reduce driving speed as the most common cause of a traffic accident. Control over driving under the influence of alcohol and illicit drugs should be further enhanced. Of course, implementation of measures is also necessary in other areas, but human conduct is often the cause of accidents. The proposaler's seriousness suggests a planned increase in budgetary resources within individual ministries, while the funding provided is a guarantee for improving transport safety in Slovenia when implementing the resolution. However, we must all be aware that, in ensuring road safety, the examples of those who exercise control over compliance with traffic regulations are also of paramount importance. Equally important are the examples of all of us involved in road transport. I'm sure they're also doing a lot of damage to those police officers who are clearly in violation of traffic regulations on the city's emergency rides without reservation, especially speed limits. Consistency is therefore necessary. Also inside the Slovenian Police. If we all try to follow traffic regulations without repression and learn from our children, grandchildren, even the culture of driving will begin to improve. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect that the basis of the resolution will have positive effects on road safety and we will be happy to support them. And if we protect at least one life with this resolution, it has already achieved its purpose. But the goals are much bigger. Good luck, together for greater security in Slovenia to all citizens and citizens! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Excuse me! Mr Zagorac will present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Honourable Presidents, Your Honors! Allow me first of all to regret that we are present on such a subject, whose foundation is ultimately death, but only eight Members. But, last but not least, the honourable Minister, this is a resolution, a subject that cannot be disputed. It is necessary to accept, as my predecessor said, even if it protects only one life, we have done something today. The resolution aims at transport safety as one of the main qualities of the transport system. Last but not least, whoever talks about this pay phone, or the bench will always have a road in his head and things that happen on the road and cause this most painful experience, either for relatives or for loved ones. It's the death of someone. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the matter is much more complex than just one resolution. The issue of several laws that we sometimes put on the sidelines in this country or that the Government does not want to give priority to or listen to the good opposition proposals it sometimes proposes. There are many reasons for the deaths on our roads. Sometimes we can read that this is a matter of weather conditions. Sometimes it's the roadside, sometimes it's too fast to drive, sometimes it's under the influence of alcohol. But if we somehow pull all this up on Slovenian roads and all those who use these roads, we know and see that the most fatal casualties on Slovenian roads are due to collisions with trucks. Here I hope that you will agree with me both with the representatives of the Government and with the other Members and Members of Parliament. And, all those, too, I am among those who drive from one place to another every morning, we can meet this, I will say, danger or face this threat that threatens to happen. Therefore, it seems to me that the proposal of the Slovenian National Party, as it was, that trucks which have a relation throughout Slovenia should withdraw from the motorways to rail transport, is not thus covered by hair, but is worth at least considering the government, if not otherwise. The trucks are the ones, and if you look at them, I believe, the distinguished Minister with his fellow workers and the honourable Members and Members, that you have all experienced the ease of driving trucks along Slovenian highways, going to power. So I'm stronger. But everyone else is adapting to me. Here's what I'm going to say is a matter that could be considered by the government's representatives. The repressive measures proposed by the resolution make sense. Meaningful to the extent that representatives, the Ministry of the Interior, say the police are absolutely and consistently taken into account. However, I ask myself: has this government not also proposed a law in the last two years, which provides that driving licences can also be carried out by persons after 16 years of age? Is it really a border that ensures safe driving? True, it is someone who must be accompanied by either a parent or someone who has passed the exam for a long time. But did this ensure that road safety and the prevention of death victims were actually achieved? I don't think so. Even if we all look at who the victims are in traffic. In fact, it goes to most cases, at least 82.5% for persons under 25 years of age. The reason for this is mostly 74% of the reported speedy driving. What does it mean to drive too fast for a person under the age of 27 to control a car? The last victims, Mr. Minister, who you quoted yourself, were also under 27 years old. And in that case, I think the state has done too little. Even if we are talking to the owners of the schools operating in the Republic of Slovenia, they have very different opinions. What is the intention of each individual conducting a driving test? To make it. To pass the driving test with as little cost as possible, with as few headcounts as possible and with relatively less or more knowledge, depending on each individual. And you know what the law says? The law says that someone who repeats the exam or comes from another country - and you will probably correct me, Minister, if I am wrong - requires 9 hours of practical driving. If it is someone who comes from a foreign country and takes an exam in Slovenia, as much as we require for a Slovenian exam and is not from a European Union country. You know what 9 o'clock is? And you know what candidates are like? We were all the same when we were young. I come to the school, yeah, I know everything, come on, come on, come on, please, write me those nine hours, and I'll carry one, and it'll be what it is. And it seems to me that there is a need to strengthen the criteria and trust the Slovenian Auto Schools. And yes, until someone knows, until the instructor assures him that this person will pass the exam, he simply cannot pass that exam. Field, Mr Minister, this is an appeal from me and from the Slovenian National Party, is a secret. They're a secret that an individual can't or can't get if he finds himself. But let me tell you, why is this field of theoretical knowledge a secret? Is it not the intention of someone who comes to perform the driving test? Well, someone who's got you, or if there's 10 or 12 of them, or if there's an area, or if there's an area, or if there's an area, or if there's an area, or if there's an area, then we can say that he came to the exam with knowledge. And that's how we trained him for road safety. Why are we hiding them? Why are we hiding these things? Why can't Slovenian high schools get them too - we're changing them! It's the right rule, ever since I passed my own exam, and when my daughter does it, it's always the same. The fields will be the same. Why are we hiding them from people? I say if someone learns 10 tests on their mind, I believe they can handle traffic regulations. I believe that 10 tests are also carried out by the State Book on Road Safety. But we don't hide this book. And we're hiding the tests. That seems a little illogical to me. But who doesn't even learn 10 tests, yes, and then can't do the exam, just like the books. And the matter that my fellow Member, Happy Friend, Galileo, mentioned on the Transport Committee. I do, and I really want Galileo to live. Galileo can have more advantages for our country. For the first time because it is envisaged that this project will be established in the Republic of Slovenia. Secondly, because it will allow for direct control, both of transport, not only in Slovenia, but also globally, as well as possible traffic congestion, traffic accidents and the difficulties that individual drivers will have in transport. And I think this will also shorten the response time and reduce the deaths. But I believe we're all here today to be able to [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] They said, one year, and in Slovenia on our roads, because they are so well arranged, there will be no fatalities and no mourning of Slovenian families. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Comrade Zagorac. You have forgotten to count me before, but of course it does not diminish into the sky the eerie fact that there is absolutely little of us in this hall on this very important subject. But that's the way it is. We continue to present our views and to invite Mr Jelen on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! The proposal for a Resolution on a national road safety programme for the period 2007-2011, in our opinion, sets transparent and understandable guidelines and we will therefore support it in our DeSUS Group. The fact is that transport culture in Slovenia is at a very low level, which also shows the number of deaths and accidents on Slovenian roads. It is therefore necessary to take measures to improve the responsible behaviour of participants, to create awareness of the importance of traffic safety and to take measures for a safer road structure. Since independence, the number of deaths on our roads has indeed decreased, resulting from specific measures. For example, stricter penalties for road traffic offences. However, traffic safety has deteriorated over the last two years. In our parliamentary group, we cannot accept the fact that the death rate is 44% higher than the average of the 25 Member States of the European Union, which ranks us 20th. And it is this data that dissects the self-image of Slovenian participants in transport as cultural drivers. It is therefore necessary to continue with the measures we define through the resolution. It is necessary to include transport education already in the curriculum of kindergartens and schools. So focus on our youngest. Above all, in our view, it is necessary to continue with this type of education and education in secondary schools when young people are preparing for the driving test, because it is these drivers who are often causing accidents and unfortunately also fatalities due to lack of transport and safety culture. As the population grows older, the safety problems of the elderly in road traffic are becoming more and more widespread. It is precisely this group that is above average at risk in most countries, in particular in the role of pedestrians and cyclists. Therefore, in our view, it is also essential to take action towards the restoration of knowledge and driving capabilities. In the DeSUS Group, we will be pleased to support the motion for a resolution, as it sets out the necessary measures to improve road safety, which we believe will contribute to reducing the number of accidents and consequently reduce the deaths and accidents.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor by inviting Mrs. Possonec on behalf of the National Community.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present. Basically from the Court of Justice, the facts and expectations of Slovenian society dictate that security be improved in the next 5 years, that European objectives be tracked, or that we also achieve this in practice, that human life is the most expensive. The basis of the national programme is to raise transport and security culture to a comparable level with those countries that have developed a security culture by linking the state level with self-government local communities and civil society, to maximise these existing sources, to improve the usability and safety of the road environment from planning to carry out maintenance and control with education, education and preventive and repressive measures to change poor transport behaviour. The strategy of the national programme shall ensure that the objectives pursued are brought together and achieved. It creates a basis for joint planning for the implementation of the programme to include all possible activities and entities that are or wish to contribute in any way to road safety. It provides synergies between the functioning of all bodies in this area in the continuous direction, coordination, control and evaluation of all further strategies. In order to implement the strategy, the National Programme generally envisages the implementation of basic strategic tasks at national and local level. However, I would point out that, despite the fact that a motorway will be built in Prekmurje in due course, this will not solve the growing number of truck traffic in the area. I would therefore like to point out that the only safe solution would be to divert freight traffic or trucks to trains. Of course, it would be necessary to build a railway track to Lendava for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Rugelj has the last word on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present, especially the representatives of the government and Minister Bozic! The resolution on the national road safety programme 2007 to 2011 is a strategic document addressing national security policy and the most demanding and security-transparent problems in road safety in the Republic of Slovenia. The main objective of the programme is to strive to reduce the worst traffic accidents and their consequences in road transport. These are mainly fatalities and severely injured participants. This will be achieved through the effective implementation of the measures contained in the programme and the provision of political will and broad social support. Many experts, both competent government services and civil society, participated in the preparation of the national programme. In view of the situation in the European Union and Slovenia, these have considered and selected the most appropriate measures to be taken in the field of human behaviour, the transport environment, vehicles and institutions that are anything but road transport. The expected benefits of coordinated planning and implementation of common national and local road transport activities under the national programme are mainly: improved road safety in the Republic of Slovenia; reduced traffic and safety gaps between the Republic of Slovenia and among the most secure countries of the European Union; organisational and functional support for key transport, safety processes and measures; systemativity; professionalism; long-term; continuity and coordination of both planning and individual tasks; greater role and responsibility of the administrative authorities and local communities. Clear powers and responsibilities of all participating entities. With the National Road Safety Programme, we want to enable Slovenian companies and individuals to participate in the process of reducing the risk of accidents and injuries. Only together with the combined forces will we achieve a higher level of security and at the same time reduce the negative consequences of road traffic accidents on road users. The resolution on the national road safety programme prepared by our Government has already received broad support and many praiseworthy opinions in the opposition, which we are particularly pleased with. We will welcome and fully support the resolution in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Although we are aware that much remains to be done in the field of road infrastructure, which, together with the resolution, will contribute to reducing traffic casualties on our roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the proposal. The first one has the word, Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Chairman. Once again, briefly, since I had said something before in the presentation of the Group of Members, I may have forgotten the following things. That the country's concern for greater security of citizens, one of the most important areas, is clear to all of us. Even if there is a half-empty hall here today, it does not mean that we have no responsibility for this fundamental task of the State. With this resolution on the national road safety programme, it certainly proves that, according to my assessment, the document is well prepared, and I believe that, even after the assessment of colleagues and colleagues, it is well prepared. Because it hopes professionally and from the point of view of the profession, it has made a great success of the resolution, which is welcomed from all angles, by all groups of Members, which I think is a great effort made in this area. And it gives me a lot of inspiration that this story can really be very optimistic in terms of the data provided by the Ministry, even in the years to come. Of course, there are many factors that matter. We've mentioned some. The transport environment is greatly improving from year to year. This is definitely an important story. Let it be a reconstruction of the highway network and from the regional road network to the sidewalks, cycling routes and so on. And this is a major step forward when such infrastructure is also improved through local and state infrastructure. This will certainly bring positive results to this resolution. The other thing that is certainly very important is that there are fewer and fewer vehicles in Slovenia. That's a fact. And this technical issue is getting better. This may also provide greater security. Of course, people are still like us. There are also drivers, road users, who are many times in breach of such and other regulations. Who doesn't break the speed limit? It's probably not between us, which doesn't exceed speed sooner or later, either in a settlement or outside a settlement. If the cops are around, we're serious. If they're not there, it's not right again. In short, you never know when it's optimal. We are aware, however, that this whole thing will depend primarily on ourselves, all citizens and citizens, all participants in transport, which we find in it either as drivers, cyclists or pedestrians. And if we set the example for our children, then these will be the examples they draw. And this resolution will be positive and beneficial for our children and grandchildren as well, and it will give us the results that we have made with it. I am confident that the document that has achieved such full support already on the Committee on Transport, as well as today, will see a positive debate so that, at the end of this resolution in 2010, when we look at statistics again, it will be significantly better than today, so that the number of dead will be significantly smaller. And if we are all deeply aware of this, then I believe that all those who are somehow responsible for this improvement will also be successful. This means that the resolution will not only be a piece of paper and document, but also give concrete results in life in the Republic of Slovenia, less fatalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. A respected minister with co-workers! I myself support this resolution, or resolution, from A to Z. However, I would like to say something about this issue, because we implemented a resolution or some of the highlights of this resolution a month ago. In short, this resolution also follows, in a substantive sense, the European objectives of reducing road traffic casualties. Many beautiful, helpful thoughts and words are written and written. But one is paper, a resolution document. The second is when we implement this into laws and practices. Today, several debaters have already pointed out, in their introduction, that man is the weakest member of this security policy. A month ago, we had a great opportunity in this room to take any legal step, as the two discussers said today. If we keep at least one life alive, we've done a lot. I'm talking about the Road Safety Act. In my opinion, we did not follow this resolution objective at the time and we did not follow this principle. What am I talking about? I still think and I am dissatisfied with the force and we have made a big mistake and it is not good that we have determined in the bill that the first technical review of the new vehicle is done after 4 years. I'm not going to explain it because I said that at the time it meant 60, 80,000 large questions about the safety of the steering mechanism, the braking system, worn tyres and so on. Therefore, personally, I still believe that, through such a legal provision, we have needlessly tempted and tempted both drivers and other road users. I am sure that and today you have been very impressed by the fact that the relationship between us drivers is still not at such a level that we will take strict care of some of the security elements that are also defined by the laws and record that we will adhere strictly to them. Therefore, I am prevented from making this mistake a month ago by some other causes of accidents, such as alcohol or excessive speed, despite constant warning. In short, we don't understand drivers in this area. Above all, alcoholism is the cause of accidents that can be compared to the attitude of our drivers to other matters. And I mentioned one. This is up to the efficiency or safety of the vehicle itself. This is where I thought the argument was at the time, and today I am confirming once again the Government's argument that we will save the drivers 7,000 dollars a year, cruel, inhumane and more on this subject. And it is completely contrary to the objectives set out in this resolution, which I personally fully agree with. And to conclude. As some of you have said, there is no money that can replace any victim in road traffic. If there is an opportunity and a chance to prevent this, and we in the National Assembly, together with the proposer, did not take advantage of this opportunity and opportunity one month ago. It's not about saving anything. This is a reduction in the programme or the road safety threshold. And that's exactly what we did with the government a month ago. I'd like to warn you again. I fully agree with everything that is contained in the resolution. However, far from that is what is stated in the resolution. That is when concrete laws come to the table, concrete implementation of certain objectives. And I must say, I'm still very disappointed in that today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, the President! Traffic safety is a major problem in Slovenia. The data show that we are falling on the tail from 130 and a few more dead per million people per tail, as far as this criterion is concerned. I must say that from this point of view I support every effort aimed at improving traffic safety, because it is clear, I will say, extremely like a road safety product, as soon as possible, that it cuts into the consciousness of every road user. For this reason, first of all, I welcome the fact that this area is now normally arranged to be regulated within the Ministry of Transport, because I believe that it is a major step forward, that the transition is from the idea that everything can be addressed through repression, with a criminal policy and that it is a qualitative shift. The subtitle of this document also shows that the applicant has the ambition to mobilise anyone who can do anything for traffic safety in our country. If we understand this as a joint task, the objective will be achieved. Otherwise, I'm sure you don't. Now I want to touch two areas. In the Transport Environment chapter, special attention is also paid to local action, improving on the road network, which is the logical consequence of the finding and the sad state of the art, which shows that the most fatal accidents are practically on the local road network. In order to be part of these tasks, the municipalities in charge of managing this road network must also be adequately trained. I am pleased to see movements in this area, in the field of community funding in 2005, in 2006. However, given the tasks, there is likely to be an additional shift to the tasks and to the dispersion of the system of local roads and public roads. The other thing you would like to touch is human conduct, as you define them, or in connection with the traffic story. We already wrote in the resolution in 2002 what we then recognized as a key moment in this area when adopting this resolution. This calls for a radical change and a recast of the practical training of young drivers. Unfortunately, I must say that, despite the fact that we entered this into the Law on Safety and Road Traffic in the chapters in 2004, I think that between 140 and 145 once was just a letter on paper. I express hope and the expectation that there is an obligation in the law for which we must all work together to achieve it. I hope that what we have already settled at the legal level will be applied even after this last postponement in 2008. To act in such a way that we will start implementing safe driving training, driving determination, because it is simply a practice that is necessary, which has shown in us comparable countries that without a radical overhaul of practical driver training there is no progress in safety. Transport, after all, is a set of instinctive reflexes that need to be taught and there is no time to think. The practice currently in force to teach the driver what a stop sign means, to learn what an obstacle is on the road, but not to teach him how to stop safely at a certain speed, to avoid, to deal with critical situations that are a traffic stop in that real sense, not in the teaching phase, when the vehicle is marked with an appropriate letter L and when more or less everyone recognizes it as such. After all, if I mention the case of neighbouring Austria. More than 20 safe driving training centres operate in neighbouring Austria. In our vicinity in Lebring in St. Veit, our national association is conducting safe driving training in Shentvid near Celovac St. Veit. The need for us to take such a form of practical training is also reflected in this. Now this kind of polygons and this infrastructure that neighbouring countries already have - let me say that the first such polygon has also been built in Poland, that these polygons in Switzerland, that these polygons are in Italy, in Spain, in Germany, and that this is a good practice that has placed these countries in a safer place, as far as road safety is concerned. Let me also say that these ranges have also been upgraded to facilities where young drivers are provided with sports and all kinds of adrenaline pleasures connected to the traffic of both motor vehicles and cars, which we do not have in Slovenia due to the total absence of such facilities. We don't have one registered sports facility for these purposes. They're engulfing themselves in public transport areas. As a result, it is also necessary to count as many victims as possible into the most endangered category. And this is the category of young drivers. I think we should get to know this sometime. See, also in other areas, specifically in the Forest Law there is a ban on driving outside forest roads. On the other hand, we are not qualified and able to offer legal areas for riding with ground engines, motorcycle engines, quadricycles. We're banning something on one side. But let us not allow those results, after all, to be passed on to our area by our standard and model of life and youth survival in Europe. That's a big problem. I see in this also the reason why we are where we are in the field of road transport. I am pleased that we have managed to introduce this need for practical training into the national programme in three chapters. I also believe that there will be no need to amend the Road Safety Act and that within the time limit we have written down, we will move from the legally envisaged training of young drivers, because I am confident that this will make a major contribution to safety on Slovenian roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Mrs. Pečanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In this resolution, I would like to draw attention to three moments. However, Mr Sušnik has already done one very extensive work. I must say that I fully agree with him. I believe that the waiting is for us to be set out in the Road Traffic Safety Act, which speaks of training young drivers for safe driving and psychosocial relations in transport. I think it's kind of called that second course, which, unfortunately, I think is mainly due to the material basis for carrying out this school in 2008. I think it's a mistake. Because, especially among young drivers, there are extremely many fatalities. Not to say what may be even worse in our own way is extremely many accidents that have lasting, irreparable consequences. So that among the victims of traffic accidents, there are very large numbers of so - called roses, such as doctors, young drivers who never regain consciousness and are simply no longer able to live their own lives. I think it's a problem that we should deal with right now, but not postpone, even if it's only for a year. But within a year, it could be trained to drive safely so many and so many young people who, at these trainings and these courses, would also learn a whole range of traps that are exposed to when driving a car or a motor in road traffic. However, the other two things I would like to point out are the complete absence of two important measures that can be implemented within a short period of time, if it is possible to do so, within a short period of time, to the extent possible, or for a longer period of time, significantly reduce road risks for all drivers, in particular passenger cars and engines. This is the relocation of passenger transport into public passenger transport. The fact is that in those countries where there is much more public passenger transport, especially at the local level, of course, because the fact is also that the largest number of accidents with very serious outcomes is actually happening on local or regional roads, not on motorways. It is said that the shift of passenger transport to public passenger transport could significantly reduce the number of passenger vehicle accidents. That's one thing. Of course, the range of measures that redirect us, which we carry on only by passenger cars in Slovenia, is extremely large. In the short term, though, most of these measures are quite expensive. However, in the long term, both in terms of environmental impacts and in view of the extent to which there are fewer injuries in transport, given the lower and similar effects of fuel consumption, the effect is that the contribution given by the State or society to increasing the use of public transport means is much less than the benefits. And the third thing I wanted to mention, however, is that actually this incredible pressure of freight traffic on all our roads, state roads and highways is so great that it simply threatens the safety of road transport as well. I believe that the Ministry of Transport should prepare a programme for the transition of transit freight to rail transport by train. I know very well that this is an investment project. However, in the 15 years of independent Slovenia there was virtually nothing done in the field of transport of trucks. And I think that this is one of the signs in essence of irresponsible behaviour in relation to road safety as well. I think that a resolution in which neither the word refers to one another nor to an increase in public passenger transport in the account of the reduction of passenger transport or the reduction of freight traffic on the road to the account of freight transport by trains shows that experts have in fact considered only those direct effects of measures relating to users of this road transport. However, there has also been no consideration of indirect measures that can substantially, I think, radically reduce the number of accidents and in particular accidents with very serious consequences in road transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u72	Thank you very much and very much. Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister with co-workers! This Resolution on the National Transport Safety Programme also seems to me to be an important document. Well prepared, which in itself is not enough. Let me first join these general praises when we share the Members, and I will be officially to my colleague, Breda Pecan, what she has praised, my colleague. I also agree that there are additional measures that could be mentioned and which are important. Of course, when I talk about the fact that the resolution itself is not enough preconditions, that safety on our roads will be significantly reduced and that in the future this blood tax will be significantly reduced on our roads. In particular, I think that, in the context of these measures, which are intended to be extended, we must also think about what affects where the deeper causes of some unreasonable behaviour, particularly young drivers, are. Let us be self - critical in the unreasonable behavior of all of us on the road. We're on our own in situations like this all the time. However, when we come through, we can ask ourselves whether we have self-critically determined that we ourselves have not contributed to traffic safety, that we have acted riskyly, recklessly, recklessly and irresponsiblely. And of course it is necessary to look into the Slovenian soul. What is different here from other nations that under comparable other circumstances, we have so much more blood tax in Slovenia? What causes this anxiety, some complexes, perhaps some addiction in the soul to manifest itself, then, many times in obscenity, inability to control alcohol and so forth? And the context of these measures, or all of this, when we think about transport safety, will need to address these causes in this sense. I'm very much into it. I support the provision of a Council of Ministers to monitor the implementation of national security. Otherwise, I'm generally against us setting up an agency in every marriage, some world, because it's too much. However, these transport safety needs to be addressed in a complex and very thoughtful manner. I am convinced that this world belongs mainly to the Minister for Education, the Minister for Culture, then to internal politics, justice, the economy, agriculture. There's a lot of accidents in agriculture. And so on. Once again, what was marked by the fact that mass psychology prevails so many times that people do not stop thinking individually, to surrender to other drivers, to try to outrun them. Or, if there's more young people on the bikes, one of them will run away and they'll all go after him and they'll go all the way to his death. Surely there are reasons in the past, surely, for our differences. The former states, the former regimes, the undemocratic regimes have instilled special complexes in us. And they're not alive. It's called insurrection. And with the new country, it's gradually going away. It is important to ask whether we really contribute every day to the fact that these psychological mentalities, as I would say, are really addressing the psychosocial causes so that they can be eliminated in a qualitative way. What has happened now in the last month, when these reactions occurred in the case of the Strojan family problem, can be an indication of how vulnerable the Slovenian soul is. And how many can use this vulnerability to further encourage the barricades and so on. Is it simply a case of a greater lack of youth manifesting itself in this particular area of excitement? Two terrible catastrophic accidents at this time immediately, in some way, as a consequence. Every day we are witnessing the promotion of a cultural fight that has, because we know what tragic consequences it has brought. I often say that there may also be something good in these village guards that have risen on this issue of the Roma. But not good in this sense, that we will know how wrongly, how evilly rude the condemnation was forever 60 years ago, that all members of the former village guards were collaborators, traitors and so on. Now we've seen how easy it is to wake up the village guards, how fast they form, and there was no one dead. How logical the consequences were when some liquidators overnight liquidated honest people, however, occurred in the evening. Mrs. Majda, you're saying you don't want to turn yourself in for the deeper reason that we have blood taxes on the roads. Look and don't protest! There is much to change, and it is necessary to stop the young generation from growing in a more healthy atmosphere, so that these tensions will not grow into their souls, so that they will be as relaxed at every step as their peers from other countries. Because they're not here often. We deceive or seek to talk about too many roads, and so, I don't know, what, the material causes. I think it's a state of mind or that we sometimes have too good roads. There's too much asphalt on the bad roads. That's what I'd say. When we talk about these measures in terms of what I have said, I think that a prerequisite for risk factors or human behaviour should be social climate change. Systematic elimination of causes that cause tension in a person. One more reason, say, I'll just tell you. Currently, also what is foretold is the promotion of this religious intolerance regarding the Law on Religious Freedom. One of them is already swearing that they won't accept it, and that's normal. Continued indulging in some impatience promoted and subconsciously in the souls of the conscious report some separations. Continued separations, divisions, where only from this syndrome, in order to rule well through division, could be well ruled, could not emerge. For this reason, the good social climate to which all factors of society must contribute is also one of the basic preconditions. So, basically, this resolution is good. However, there is still a lot to be done in all areas of society so that we can all act better together on the roads and contribute to transport safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Miro Petek has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. All present and welcome. I also consider this resolution to be a good one, and especially a useful document for Slovenian society. This resolution states that the quality of life of citizens and citizens depends on the level of road safety. However, safety rates also depend on the quality of road infrastructure. The road infrastructure is very different in Slovenia. Some people have been able to drive on highways for a long time. Some of us have to take the 70 -, 80 - mile [70 - km] highways along the goat trails that carry the name of the state road by mistake. This is the responsibility of the country, for road infrastructure and for road safety as a whole. Today, the European Action Programme has already been mentioned, which foresees a halving of the number of deaths. I think this will be a very difficult task for Slovenia. However, this goal is worth setting and must be followed. The objectives of the national programme for the period 2002 to 2005 were only partially achieved last year. 258 deaths were recorded. So we're behind targets for 19%. The aim of halving the number of deaths and achieving that in 2011 there would be no more than 124 dead on Slovenian roads and that at that time around 600 lives would be preserved is a commendable goal, which is worth the effort, both of us and of all the competent ministries and of society as a whole. The fact is, there is very little time left for a radical reduction in the deaths this year. One weekend or two spoils all the statistics. We've witnessed this in the last two weekends. Also interesting is this vision: no fatalities. Of course it's just a vision. It's a good thing we follow her. We have a similar vision in the fight against corruption. Speaking of zero level of corruption, we are well aware that this is impossible to achieve. The issue of police repression, which is very important, has already been mentioned. But I think there should be some movement in this, some twist in the head of the Slovenians. When we drive across Italy, Austria, when we see a police officer on the road, we press the brakes immediately. This is not the case in Slovenia. Although the penalties in Slovenia have been quite drastic in recent years, we drive more domestically. Perhaps this is also due to the fact that the people of the police simply in Slovenia do not fear as much as when we cross the border. After all, this relationship is also due to the fact that the lice guards have reviewed the Slovenian police, which has further distorted the reputation and authority of our police. Nevertheless, all efforts in the past have made progress. Remember all the action, minus 10% and the like. In doing so, I might mention the following. In a similar way to this resolution and other activities that have been in the field of road safety in recent years, preventive measures on suicide may also need to be taken in this country. 200, 230, 240 people die on roads in Slovenia. And every year, about 600 Slovenes and Slovenians take their lives, and we don't say anything about it. There's nothing extra about that in the papers. There are no high-sounding resolutions on this subject, and this has been suppressed more intimately by the people.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor. He's quitting. The list of registered persons has been completed. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask: Does anyone else wish to discuss the Rules of Procedure under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure? I'll open the application so there won't be any misunderstandings. Mr. Secretary, did you raise your hand too? Yeah. You'll get your word. Otherwise, the application is still pending. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I wanted to warn and say one more thing before. I think that under the traffic environment there would indicate, otherwise we have not specifically written, but I would also like to highlight the aspirations of one group of road users, these are motorists. To listen to legitimate requirements for motorists with more friendly road equipment or infrastructure. I should mention only the repellent fences, which are already the most innocent in traffic, at the time of the most innocent fall due to inadequate design, could be fatal for such a road user. It must also be said that our neighbours in this area have already done something in this direction and that it probably does not show here the reason for the lack or the lack of funds. I think that this should be sought in good will and in the good intentions of the maintenance workers, that in those areas, and in those roads that are extremely frequent with motor bikes, which are known as popular motorists during the season to make some quality progress here in the direction of both railing and other things that are specifically mentioned. I would like to point out that this is the Maxi association dealing with this area, and this has also been clearly written and defined. We just can't ignore this, I can't overlook the fact that in this year's year it's over 40, I think already, the bikers have died on our roads, that it's a high number. And even if we take a look at the analysis of who the victims were among the motorists. It reaffirms once again my previous debate that the victims were, as a rule, newly roasted motorists, those not accustomed to their motorcycles. This shows that they lack practical experience in driving their new acquisitions, and this further confirms the need for practical training. I think that for motor bike drivers this need in law should be specifically defined by the requirements highlighted. This opportunity is written in law, I think that the agency will be the one preparing practical training programmes and I believe that when preparing the programmes they will take into account analysis and properly identify or prepare programmes that will give the new, young engine drivers adequate practical pre-training. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u77	Thank you. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, honourable Members! It's not the first time I've witnessed a road safety debate. We discussed this in the previous term, and when we discussed security in the previous mandate, I was one of the most vocal advocates of banning any alcohol in the blood when someone is driving. I am convinced that alcohol and other psychotropic substances, which reduce the ability to react during driving, are in fact a problem if we are willing in society to find excuses for what effect all of this would have, but perhaps not a little. I think that, with all the many commitments of zero tolerance to violence against children, to zero tolerance to any kind of intolerance, even a vision should be included in this complex and, as part of the vision, nothing should put the infinite goal of no fatalities on roads in Slovenia, but also no alcohol in the blood. Since one in three causes of death in road traffic are so devastating to me that in society we should actually create such a relationship to the compatibility of alcohol consumption and driving that zero tolerance is an obligation for all. My colleague, Breda Pečan, talked about what untapped opportunities are actually public transport, and they are taxi drivers, and there are many other options. If the general cultural level were to be such that driving under the influence of alcohol would be considered socially unacceptable, then there would be a change in our understanding of wine cultures. No one attacks either wine-growing or drinking culture, but it is simply impossible to afford something such that we can consider any matter admissible even, but at least to that limit is permissible, and from there it is no longer criminal. Nothing should be a command. Incompatibilities are perfect. In this resolution, two things give me hope. When I read the measures on how the drafters of the resolution represent a reduction in victims and injuries between the two very vulnerable groups, that is, between the bikers and the pedestrians, I see one response to this greater concern about the regulation of peaceful transport. What's happening now is that we're practically running away from it, because we don't even know how to walk along these well-marked bike paths so that all the participants can leave space for them to take part in the traffic, and I think that they would also be here with prevention and training, but I think that the children in the school process are given appropriate training in both segments, both in citing to wear protective equipment as bikers, as well as in learning to use prescribed surfaces for bikers. It is likely that something should be done to ensure that adults also respect cycling routes as cyclists for the intended surface, as well as sidewalks as pedestrians for the intended surface. There's only one thing I'd like to point out. We usually conclude any discussion at the principal level in such a way that no law can bring good or bring an end to it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u79	Mrs. Potrat, I'd like to ask you to finish your thought slowly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u80	You didn't limit your time, Mr. President. I've been watching. It says right there that I'm still two minutes 19 and don't mind if I'm not. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u81	Well, of course, if it's not less, it's a maximum of five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u82	I can't tell because my time is running out of group time. I will conclude and say that I hope, however, that all those who adopt the laws will also be able to respect the laws and that we will not as a group, as legislators' representatives, give support to those who violate the laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. The Ministry of Transport, which will make sure that the words contained in the resolution are not only recorded as part of its function of managing and coordinating national transport security processes. In the final phase, there is a similar operational plan for government actions to be implemented directly on the road in 2007. Speed will be given real emphasis in April, June and July. Alcohol will be targeted at November and December, and special attention will be paid to the pedestrians in October, which is when most of them die. In May and June, special care will be given to the use of the safety belt, the drivers of one-bedroom vehicles, and these are motorcycles and motorcycles with engines that have died more than 40 this year, and we will devote our activities in April, May and October. The goal of maintaining 600 lives by the end of 2011 is ambitious, I am aware of this as a minister and will be difficult to achieve. However, it is necessary to collect and use all the resources and will and, of course, everything that we have written in this document to be realized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you. This concludes the debate. As no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a resolution, the assembly will hold a decision on the resolution in accordance with the meeting's time frame today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th agenda or no later than 20.35. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with the adjourned 1st item of the agenda - this is with questions from Members of Parliament and Members to the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u86	Dear Members and honourable Members, distinguished guests! We continue the meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. We are moving on to the questions and answers of Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question will be asked by Mrs Darja Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all, to the President of the National Assembly, to the President of the Government, to ministers and to colleagues and colleagues! Mr President, there is obviously something very wrong with the rule of law. We have not invented this in the opposition, and we are increasingly reminded by serious professional analysts at home and abroad. That's what the indisputable facts are saying. Let me just list a few of these facts. The situation in the area of non-executive decisions of the Constitutional Court deteriorated in 2005 compared to 2004, thus taking into account the report of the Constitutional Court for 2005. The Constitutional Court's report also points out that drafting and adoption of disputed legislation is also a major problem. In everyday life, however, forced displacements and village guards snuck into our lives. People have taken the law into their own hands, stopped the police and reviewed it, stopped traffic on public roads, legitimized passersby. The Ombudsman has informed the European Ombudsman of some of these problems. Both came to Slovenia and expressed concern about these facts. At home, however, the guardian himself became a problem, not the problems he reported. The problem became that the Ombudsman acted in accordance with his powers and powers conferred on him by the Constitution and the law. You yourself, Mr President, have deceived him into acting irresponsiblely and unreasonablely. It is very bad and worrying that the Government is bringing a number of laws into Parliament with very questionable provisions in terms of human rights and fundamental freedoms and that the coalition Members are uncritically voting them. Members of the opposition have repeatedly turned to the Constitutional Court in power and, as a rule, succeeded. However, the problem is not that such laws have been passed in Parliament despite warnings at all, the problem is that the opposition has served this last constitutional option at all. She's not a statesman, she's a stampede to the Constitutional Court. That's what the coalition MPs say, and that's what some ministers say. Do you not think, Mr President, that we have already crossed the line when certain measures need to be taken to at least combat the erosion of the rule of law, but that we are more effective in enforcing, consolidating and respecting the rule of law? What will the Government do to directly implement the brake and balance mechanism in Slovenia's constitutional order? Let me remind you, Mr President, that you have already included the better functioning of the rule of law and legal certainty in the coalition treaty among the fundamental objectives. You will not believe this, and you will run into the support of LDS Members with confidence.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u89	Thank you so much for asking. Thank you for your word. Of course, the functioning of the rule of law can always be improved. This government is trying this way. However, the question, as announced and mainly raised later, was: Is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia preparing any measures and which to stop the further dismantling of the rule of law? The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not see any further dismantling of the rule of law, so it is also not preparing any measures in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u90	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u91	What I was talking about, Mr President, is undoubtedly starting a legal state in Slovenia. The lice guards, attempts to discipline the Guardian of Human Rights. The government has already drawn up a number of laws and has insisted on them, even though they are controversial in terms of constitutionality and compliance with human rights law standards. In them, the government also makes a visual representation of the instrumental concept of the right: the purpose is to devote the means. This government wants to have a politically compatible state and a public administration. This is an indisputable desire for unity, after controlling and controlling everyone and everything, so such a law on public servants, therefore such an Act on RTV Slovenia, therefore such a law on media and so-called media balance, therefore a detailed list of properties including the 7th Secret Form, and therefore a view of patients' diagnosis through a list of medicines that patients receive at the pharmacy. Finally, the government itself will pay judges, constitutional judges, MPs and journalists. Therefore, the Government will richly reward its representatives or supervisors in companies with a significant national stake, because the latter are ours, they are verified, they are loyal, in a word compatible. The Constitutional Court has so far ruled on several laws adopted by this coalition and, in individual provisions, a declaration of non-compliance with the Constitution or has retained certain of their provisions because it intends to examine them further because their enforcement could cause serious harm and irreparable consequences. But the government does not see the Law on Public Servants, the Law on Asylum, the Law on Police, the Law governing the fight against corruption, the Law on Cobalt Lipica, the Law on Judicial Service, the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages, the Law on RTV Slovenia, the Law on Payments. Some other laws are already in line to be judged before the Constitutional Court. Can you, please, specifically, tell us what measures the Government intends to take to prevent further dismantling of the rule of law?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u92	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u93	Madam Parliament has listed some of the real problems that exist, but also of the great ones that are imagined. This second is because we view certain matters differently and there is nothing wrong with it. It is wrong for someone to use words such as the dismantling of the rule of law from the day on when he is no longer in power. And that's a little bit wrong with that terminology. There are certain problems with the functioning of the rule of law in Slovenia, including some serious ones. Sorry, you weren't listed. In addition to the unexecuted judgments of the Constitutional Court, which, of course, is not a specific feature of this mandate, but this has existed for many years, there are also hundreds of thousands of judicial backlogs, which are a real problem for Slovenian citizens. On the one hand, because they have waited too long for their right, on the other hand, because it is cynically precisely those who are awaiting their right that they must, because they are taxpayers, pay the penalties now imposed by the European Court of Justice on the grounds of judicial failure. They've been punished twice. This is not actually fair, but it is not due to any disintegration of the rule of law in the first half of this government's mandate, but it is due to the functioning of the judicial system during the reign of the Liberal Democracy. There is another problem that is serious and that has been inherited and is not yet solved because it cannot be solved overnight. This is an increase in wealth crime in Slovenia. In 1993, statistics in Slovenia recorded 23,000 crimes of property delinquency against assets in the year 23,000. In 2004, when this government took over the mandate, this number was 65,000. During the 10 years of the government of Liberal Democracy, the number of property crimes has tripled. This number was a little more optimistic at the end of last year, but not entirely. These are very serious problems that we cannot call the dismantling of the rule of law. Many others face similar problems, but they show that things are not right and that much effort is needed and we are doing so.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u94	Thank you. Would you like to propose a debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. I cannot accept that the President of the Government does not recognize the seriousness of the situation when it comes to the obvious signs of the erosion of the rule of law with us. I didn't say that everything was fine before the second power. Far from it. But in this mandate, under the current government's tactics, this Parliament has adopted a whole series of laws that reduce the standards already reached for the protection and consolidation of human rights. In recent times alone, the coalition has adopted a law regulating the list of property and which is controversial in terms of the protection of information privacy. The Minister of Health then ordered that pharmacy insurance companies also provide the name of the medicine given to the patient in the pharmacy and the number of the patient’s health insurance, which can be concluded on the diagnosis, thereby violating his right to privacy. Telecommunications data are archived for 24 months, although we had a choice between 6 and 24 months under the directive. We've extended the Owl's wiretap to 24 months. In one of the high - score newspapers, we read that a police officer from Dravograd was fired for expressing his opinion through a blog on the newspaper’s website. He's been charged with a security threat. He's supposed to be threatening the battle of the Prime Minister himself. In short, the field of freedom and privacy is shrinking, the field of repression is strengthened. The Government, which is obliged by law to take appropriate measures to regulate the situation in all areas under the jurisdiction of the State, does not see how the rule of law falls before it. Moreover, it itself proposes and insists on proposals which deny the fundamental principle of rule of law, which denies or severely restricts fundamental human rights. And as a matter of fact, not all of this was invented by the state-favouring opposition. These are the facts. This has also been observed in international organisations, of which Slovenia is also a full member, in the most prominent foreign media, as observed by Amnesty International, State Department, Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights and the European Ombudsman. In the Coalition Treaty, you have written among the fundamental objectives a better functioning of the rule of law and legal certainty. We support you here without hindrance. Therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government, since we will be able to examine the situation in a comprehensive manner and propose appropriate measures, in particular legislative measures, which will improve the situation of respect for human rights, the rule of law and plural democracy. Last but not least: Before the Presidency of the European Union, whether the European Union does not deserve a credible presidency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u96	Thank you. On the proposal by Mrs Lavtijar Bebler to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to her parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide today in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 19th agenda or at the latest at 20.35. The following question will be asked by Mr Miran Potrč to the Prime Minister of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President of the Government, the Council of Ministers. In recent days, another new issue has been emerging among people. It's a property list. This issue also causes a lot of confusion and dissatisfaction in professional circles. The Bureau of Information Commissioners has already decided to initiate a constitutional dispute. Can data be collected and recorded, even though the law does not clearly specify the purpose of their collection, and from which it will be possible for everyone to determine the extent and value of their assets? What does Mr. President of the Government think about this, and how do you personally feel about it? However, there are still more questions among people because of the lack of clarity of the links between the signature and the introduction of a possible new tax. The fact that the property tax will be, there is little doubt about it. However, all concerns about how much data from the questionnaire will affect the size of the tax, whether taxes will be linear, or whether the family and social situation of the owner will be taken into account, the purpose of the use of the property, and so on. In Slovenia, housing houses, apartments and weekends were largely built under uncomparable conditions with today's. Hence, many people have relatively large properties, but they are not wealthy, and they are already paying hard wages for the use of building land. That is why they are so much more distracted by the various declarations that come from ministerial types in relation to the tax. The law states that real estate data will be obtained from the questionnaire and used only for the purpose of establishing a real estate register. Some ministers speak of the main criterion for the valuation of the position, size and age of the property. Others, however, will take into account to a lesser extent the renewal of the roof, facades, windows, installations and so on. Again, the government's third representatives that there is nothing yet to be said about the amount of tax today, because first it is necessary to determine the value of the property we have in the country. So it's a lot of different answers and a lot of uncertainty. Please, Mr President, what can you tell citizens and citizens of Slovenia about the issue of the introduction of taxes and the list of property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The purpose of this census is as set out in this national assembly by law adopted. It is said to be the establishment of a cadastral of buildings and a register of real estate. These records are necessary for the normal management of housing and many other policies in the area of space. Slovenia should have had them a long time ago. She's one of the few countries she doesn't have. And only after these data are made available will it be possible to assess what this fund is like and, as a rule, to manage certain policies. For example, in a specific place, in a municipality and especially in larger urban settlements, where these records are more lacking - there is a larger settlement, they are better lacking - it is very difficult to plan some policies, such as building apartments, if you do not have good or already basic data. The government, in particular the Ministry of Finance, has already stated many times that it does not intend to either replace any of the existing taxes or introduce new inflows, new taxes for the revenue side of the budget. The property is also taxed today, a tax on the use of building land is being paid and problems are being identified. About half the users are paid tax, but half are not. To a large extent, because there are no complete records and this situation is, of course, criminal in view of the fact that owners who are in exactly the same situation pay one, others do not pay. So that if there is change, but it will only be possible to judge it once the complete records are complete, it will go further towards a fairer regime, and it will take some time to study matters before it is proposed. Hold what you have stated in your explanation. Slovenia is somewhat specific when it comes to the existing fund of houses and apartments. Especially in houses, many have built this under specific circumstances, I'm sure it's not about, I'll say, the richest layer. The situation was very different, someone gave the last savings into the house, and someone got it, especially those who were closer to the "koret", and they got credit that they never paid back. This has been the case, situations are incomparable, and we do not create illusions that we can right now with this census or with some new taxation of this thing in return or even. What is necessary is that we get real records, we get a real basis for implementing different spatial policies, and that in the revisions of such tax legislation, which will surely happen in the future, there will be a more just regime, but there is no plan for any increase or budget charged to this account.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u100	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to the purpose of the law, I understand that in Article 103, paragraph 6, of the Law in the National Assembly, we have taken the following decision: "the property data obtained from the questionnaire was used only for the purpose of establishing and maintaining the real estate register." Discussions later also began on the link between the census and such or other property tax. I'd like to supplement you, allow me, ask you two. Surely you still remember your statement of 27 March 2006 in the National Assembly, when you said that the Government would not propose taxation in kind, in some sense you said that today, but even more precisely just taxation of non-productive property, that there would be no increases in taxes on housing, houses and the like which are normally necessary for people's lives. This is the first question: Can you comment on this statement today? Second. In view of the policy taken by the Government in the tax legislation we have adopted, with regard to taxation - I explicitly stress that non-taxation - will this generally apply to the Roman Catholic Church's assets as well as to property taxes? Many questions arise in this regard, namely the faithful and non-believers, who say they are afraid that in the current government policy they will have to pay taxes on their property, and others, for example, the Church, will not be obliged to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u103	With regard to this second one, there is no fear, but it is true that it is a constant act of fear and fear. As far as the statement is concerned, my own statement, which I am supposed to comment on, I think there is no point in commenting, because it is perfectly clear. When it comes to tax legislation, the National Assembly has adopted its work on the reform of tax legislation. In the near future, there is certainly nothing more planned. This will have to be done. As of 1 January next year, Slovenia will receive a modern, simple, significantly more substantial tax system than it has been so far, which will also be development-oriented and stimulating. And I think we've done a lot of work on this for a while. As far as this is concerned, for example, the transfer of certain tax data has taken place in part. I think that in this package you have also adopted the Ship Tax Law, where it is a luxury matter, where things have settled as well as in comparable European countries, and at least we have not seen any major opposition in public against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u104	Thank you. Would you like to propose a debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Without much reason, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on the President's response. Because I think there are still so many issues of real estate taxation that are so important at the time we are doing the census that we want to be successful so that we do not ultimately have problems with censusers who are least guilty and only perform their duties. It would therefore be right to do so after a month, because then, if this debate was voted on, we would already have many experiences, as well as the possibility that the Government, Mr President, on the issues I have raised, might be more clearly and more specifically defined than in some of your replies today. I therefore propose that we hold a debate under Article 246(2). Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u106	Thank you. On the proposal by the Member of Parliament, Mr Miran Porč, to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide today in the context of the votes. The following question will be asked by Mr Saša Pece to the Prime Minister of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u107	Your Honors are here! President Janša of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, allow me to congratulate you on your introduction to your relationship, the desire for minimization, the tendency of some individuals in our society who want to mutilate their own country through foreign media. In the framework of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we estimate that such selfish aspirations of some political parties are, of course, worth all the building, and from this title once again in this field of congratulations. However, I would like to touch on the question of the Member States, which is related in the first part to the forecasts or assessments of the Strategic Council within the Republic of Slovenia. Not long ago, you said, which has also been exposed by both speakers to the fact that you want a so-called state-of-the-art opposition. Let me put it this way: I want a state-owned government or a government coalition. Allow me to remind you, however, that at least in the Slovenian National Party Group to the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have proposed several laws which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and later, of course, the National Assembly has rejected. Not long after that, you proposed the law with the same content and, of course, this law was passed. And the first question is, do you think it's country-specific for politicians to step on the authorship and pursue the only goal, that's authorship? However, I would like to point out the dilemma in relation to the opinion of the Strategic Council and the President of the Strategic Council, Mr Senjour, on the increase or change in tax reform. In this particular area, of course, I know that you know, so better said, I warn you that we are the words that he puts on your heart this time. The Strategic Council, also laid down within the framework of the Slovenian National Party. From this title, of course, I ask you in connection with the coming taxes, for the first time, a question that I will not deal with in substance because my colleague Potrč did this before me, but: What about the other taxes on the coming tax reform? And: Do you even think about the already exposed tendency of the National Party to tax property? However, I am of course aware that, according to your Minister, Mr Bajuk, the Minister of Finance, a 20% increase in the budget revenues under this heading is foreseen - the answer to the question of the Member of the delegation, which he claims, but is now nodding, is on 23rd or I apologize, as of 29 June of this year. In this context, allow for a brief question: Why did the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not use the so-called Finnish model to prevent the negative impact of prices? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] raising prices due to the introduction of the euro? [[...]] This has been the practice in some countries and in the National Party we are, to say the least, outraged that the Government has not summarized this model and left that the prices of certain services on the market are, of course, essential [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u109	Thank you so much for those questions. If I start at the end, then I have to say that the Finnish model has not been used, which in some countries was used in Finland, so it is also called the Finnish model, and Slovenia has largely used it. This model is known to be an agreement between the government or between the state and the economy, about some "fair play" at this transition. At one of the last meetings of the Government, we confirmed the Government's approach to such an agreement. Many economic operators have also committed themselves not to exploit these situations to raise prices. The government has committed that where prices are controlled, it will not allow or consent to incentives at that time. And most importantly, since March this year, a double price labelling has been introduced in Slovenia, which will continue after the introduction of the euro for half a year, meaning that prices will be comparable and that any rises will be detected immediately. Some of them were also discovered, mainly because of this fact. Otherwise, it would be harder to track, and consumers would have a harder job, including consumer organisations or consumer protection organisations. And so far, we don't record anything drastic in this area. These movements that have been detected are significantly smaller than in any comparable country at the time of the introduction of the euro. Data reflecting such movements are also favourable. In October this year, Slovenia experienced 0.8 percent of prices, the highest in its history. So there were no drastic lifts anywhere. Of course, it was necessary to remain vigilant even in the first half of the next year or immediately after the introduction of the euro, which is our collective commitment, which calls for a common effort. I think we Slovenians are serious in this area and there will be no major problems. As regards tax policy, much has already been answered in response to the previous question, at least as regards so-called property taxes. As far as guidance or some advice from the Strategic Council for Economic Development is concerned, I can only say that I agree. I think it is advice given after a very thorough analysis of the situation, that they are balanced and that they will be taken into account in the management of different economic policies next year in the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u110	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u111	Thanks again for saying that. Mr President of the Government, I must admit to you that you have a sense of humor when you realize that the so-called Finnish model comes from Finland, but no matter what, I think the content you have given is rather sadder than ridiculous. Because in your answer you have clearly little recognition that you are unable to create a social consensus or social pursuit of a single goal that would lead our country forward. I think it's a bad trip, to make it public, and that you don't have that power, not you, not your ministers. I personally continue to assess that any price rise for any, at least, service or product on the market is unacceptable due to the introduction of the euro. According to my assessment and according to the assessment of the National Party, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should carry out a consensus and thus all the elements on the market that we have on which we have, and especially you, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, have complete control, as regards fiscal regulation and, last but not least, macroeconomic or monetary policy. Here you answer the question of the fiscal system, if there was much to be said. It was true, but I don't think we should have a minute to regret the talk about the new tax burdens or the increased existing burdens on Slovenian citizens and citizens. From this title, I inform you that the so-called Strategic Council, as the President has also pointed out, his personal opinion that he would advise the Government to impose a property tax. I sincerely ask you, on behalf of all those who pay taxes, not least of which you are among them, but rather reduce the spending side or the spending side rather than burden citizens and citizens. And since I saw earlier that Mr Bayuk laughed at my claim, let me quote you: "30 billion dollars is the proceeds of compensation and property taxes, and the Ministry of Finance has estimated that the revenues from this title will increase slightly by at least one fifth by the imposition of the property tax." June 29th, this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u112	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u113	So, I'm going to say a hundred more for the deaf, too. The government doesn't propose any real estate taxes. I don't think all the opposition has the financial resources to bribe the government to do so in the years to come. You can ask me ten more times the same question, it'll always be the same answer. If we were going to introduce some drastic taxation here, then this law would be included in a package of tax legislation that has already been adopted in the National Assembly. However, I urge you not to waste too much energy and that this list of properties is not used to make a permanent accusation if the government does something that it does not intend to do. In the years to come, it will be very difficult to claim that this has been done if it does not. And I don't see any great rational logic in that it's constantly being stressed, even though we've explained this many times. The situation here is in some way even more absurd than in the case of claims that the Government will certainly introduce an increase in value added tax, even though it has not proposed it. Tax legislation has been adopted. It was adopted, although it was predicted that I do not know what, with a relatively high level of consensus, most of the cases were harmonised, at least key steps, both within the social partnership and within the development partnership, not all agreed. Many words were used when accepting, even difficult, but the laws were in force, there was no veto, no signature collection for the referendum. In short, more or less today there is a high level of consensus that we have adopted good solutions that lead Slovenia forward and positive effects will come in the coming years. So I see no point in the fact that now the government is constantly ascribed to certain purposes that it does not have.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u114	Thank you. Would you like to propose a debate? Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u115	Thanks again for saying that. I think today, in the National Assembly, we are in the situation where ministers speak one thing, and the President of the Government speaks another. That we have come into this situation when the Prime Minister of the Government spoke one word this March, today he speaks another, and that we have also come into a third situation when laws speak one, the President of the Government speaks another. But, at least on our part, the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary groups: Mr Janez Janša, if anyone wants people to live better in this country, comparable to ours, I will say, fellow citizens within the European Union, then this is the Slovenian National Party. All our votes and all our proposals are directed in this direction, so please do not treat this cynically or otherwise offensively. I want to show you, in another way, that state-of-the-art can also be ensured in a different way, not just by blindly printing on the keys to those suggestions you make in the procedure. However, I would like to point out, look at the honourable Members and Members, in view of the fact that I will request the entry into force of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have before me the reply of the President of the Government of 27.3. this year, in which I stress the work I quote the President of the Government: "To the extent that we wish to replace the inflows to the budget on the abolition of taxes on salaries paid and would receive this compensation by raising both rates of value added tax." This was said by the President of the Government, who today denies any such tendency in the framework of the National Assembly. You probably all remember the amendments to the Value Added Tax Act as well as the introduction of the 2008 option after the so-called lower tax rate and the higher tax rate. The aim of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. after discussion, is only to allow our citizens and citizens to see what awaits them in the coming years. However, I believe it is in the interest of all of us to show them something better and better, but not to create confusion with the answers of the Minister of Finance, whether it will be within the framework of the public financial laws that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sends to the procedure, or not least with the replies of the President of the Government. The budget for itself carries a lot of instruments and has a great impact not only on the economy, but on our society as a whole. It would therefore make sense to hold a debate on this, in which both the President of the Government and not least the Minister of Finance would participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u116	Thank you. On the proposal of Mr Saš Pečet to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide today in the framework of the votes. The next question will be posed by the mag. Janez Kramberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u117	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister, ministers, President of the Government, welcome! I would like to raise the question of the information system necessary for Slovenia to enter the Schengen area. More than once it has been said that Slovenia will enter this area on 1 July next year, we are now hearing that this date is moving towards the end of next year. We can also read in the public about the problems that are mainly related to the information system needed to enter the Schengen area. There is a lot of talk about so-called version one and version two. So: What are the views of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on this matter and when can citizens of the Republic of Slovenia be expected to be fully free to move goods in the European Union? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u119	Thank you so much for asking. It's an extremely important topic. As you know, the EU is well founded as a place where the free movement of goods, people and services, the idea of capital, should be free. When it comes to free movement of people, one of the key elements of this flow is the end of border regimes. Slovenia has become a member of the EU by becoming a member of political integration, but has not yet become a member of this, you might say, internal security integration or Schengen space. According to the original plans, the Schengen area is expected to expand to the new Member States in 2007. In this regard, all necessary political decisions have been taken. However, it started to get stuck mainly this year on technical preparations for the update or on the development of a new information system. For a while there were signs that there would be drastic delays. If entry into the Schengen area were delayed, let's say for one year, this would be a cost of around 100 million euros for Slovenia, which made all preparations in time. This is also why, not only because of this, it is primarily about entering "Schengen" to increase our own security and, lastly, enable citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to cross the internal borders of the EU without personal documents, without stopping, without wasting time, sometimes without delayed verification procedures. To resolve the situation, Slovenia was then among the most active in finding a solution and was then successful. During that time, you could also monitor the statements made by the competent authorities in Brussels or by the European Commission that Slovenia is at present the only one ready to enter the Schengen area. As a result, it has in some way been ranked as a champion in this operational implementation or in the search for a replacement solution, an emergency solution to the upgrade of the first generation information system. Finally, this solution was adopted. The costs will be negligible compared to the costs that Slovenia would have suffered if there were a one-year delay if there were years of delays, these costs would be multiplied accordingly. At the last meeting of the European Council, the EU's highest authority confirmed the conclusions of the world, which build on the first generation Schengen Information System. This also creates technical conditions for the expansion of the Schengen area, now final dates: 31 December of the following year, when there will be no more maritime and land borders within the EU, and March 2008 when there will be no borders at airports. With these decisions, the negative effects of delays are neutralised, the delays, which will still be several months old, are irrelevant, and at the end of the meeting of the last European Council, we have heard much praise at the expense of our Minister for Home Affairs and Slovenia, who is in this process or in the process of seeking solutions so that there is no delay, has played a key role.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u120	Thank you. This concludes this agenda item. I also thank the ministers and ministers for their participation in this item. We're moving on to 19. Period of the day - Defence proposal for a candidate for the appointment of the Ministry for Work, Society and Social Affairs. On 6 December 2006, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, proposed that Mrs Marjeto Cotman be appointed Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, to further explain the proposal. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u121	Thanks again for saying that. Allow me to add a few more sentences to explain the proposal you have received in writing. I propose Mrs Marjeto Cotman as Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs for the following reasons. It shall fulfil all formal conditions for the performance of this challenging task or function. She has so far been employed in various jobs that have brought her the necessary work experience to carry out this function. Last but not least, at the place of secretary of state at the same ministry, which means that it needs a relatively short period or the shortest possible time to take up office, which is very important because it takes place during the term of office. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Minister's candidate presented herself to the committee responsible for work, family and social affairs and persons with disabilities on the previous Wednesday. The Committee, the Home Committee, assessed its presentation as appropriate. As a key element of this presentation, the candidate has set up the necessary dialogue and cooperation with all actors, including social partners, non-governmental organisations and civil society, which has already been a priority. And, of course, she highlighted the key points that I am now stressing from the Ministry's work programme in the second part of this mandate. Emphasis will be placed on the adoption of key legislation to implement economic and social reform programmes. In particular, labour market liberalisation or labour law reform remained a challenge within this framework. It is therefore specifically about final harmonisation and adoption of amendments and supplementing the Labour Relations Act. Also important is the participation of the Ministry and the future minister in the negotiations for the conclusion of the social agreement for 2006-2009, the negotiations are somewhere in two-thirds, and this is also one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this area. Some other laws in the field of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the implementation of the Government's work programme in the field of employment, social affairs, family and demographic policy are also being implemented before the candidate. On the basis of the above, on the basis of the results of her work so far and on the basis of a positive presentation on the home committee, I am confident that the candidate for Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mrs Marjeta Cotman, with her expertise and rich experience in the field of social protection, social care, family policy, employment and also the functioning of the state administration, will perform successfully the work of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and I therefore recommend a positive vote of confidence in my proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u122	Thank you. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the candidate presented herself to the Home Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons and responded to questions raised by members of the Committee. The opinion of the Committee which you have received shows that the presentation of the candidate was appropriate. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u123	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. On this occasion, I warmly welcome the President of the Government, his ministers and all of you, colleagues and fellow Members! On the basis of a proposal submitted by the President of the Government to the National Assembly for the Election of Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mrs Marjeta Cotman presented herself to the home working body on the basis of Article 112 of the Constitution and in accordance with Article 230(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the State Assembly to the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons at its 12th emergency session. The proposed candidate for a minister presented herself in the beginning with a personal view and further reduced the scope of the necessary tasks and the work to be carried out under the following mandate or in the second part of the mandate and in particular pointed out the following. First of all, it highlighted the environment of labour relations and the necessity to further coordinate the necessary material, which is in line with the origins of the Government's Economic and Social Reform Programme with the economic and social partners. In this regard, the conclusion of a social agreement for the period 2006-2009 is also envisaged. It also described in detail the subject matter of domestic violence, and then also the novels of the law on pension disability insurance, in which it was necessary to enter into those changes that the Government had planned through the reform programme for the first amendment in this mandate, and then a slight reduction in the scope of the necessary changes. It further highlighted the need for the amendment to the Home Record Act, and in particular the need to regulate the equal opportunities of persons with disabilities in a normative manner, which is said to require the adoption of the Law on the Enforcement of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities in the following part of the mandate. This certainly coincides with the fact that the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union declared 2007 a year of equal opportunities for all. In addition, the need to amend and implement the Student Food Financing Act as well as the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act was established by the candidate. At the conclusion of the presentation, the candidate also presented the need for the tasks ahead of the Ministry, which, if so decided by the National Assembly, will somehow plan its work with regard to the Presidency of the European Union in the first part of 2008. Members and members of the committee asked a number of questions, questions that were of a substantive nature, as well as a provocative question, which is right. The candidate answered the questions raised, but certainly it was not possible to answer all the questions raised in the big man. After all, the Committee has also decided that the candidate is appropriate for the State Assembly to approve her as Minister, and it also proposes this by a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u124	Thank you. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Once again, Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr President of the Government, ministers. We are not, and we do not intend to be a coalition party until the end of the mandate, so we give all the right and responsibility to the Government and the government coalition to appoint ministers, including the dismissed Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Of course, we want to carefully evaluate the proposals, because we do not care what the value points are and what direction they bring to their new important job as minister or minister. Especially not in the field of work, family and social affairs, which is why we have tried to ask the candidate for Minister, Mrs Cotman, in some essential respects already at her presentation. There is no possibility of this today, so we will tell you about our view in particular a few brief views. It does not seem wise and necessary for us to speak long and wide or to make it difficult for others to act. However, we believe that it is right to say some fundamental points about our work in this ministry in the future, especially for the reason that, at the dismissal of Minister Drobnik, it has been assessed that his main problems of action were the improper management of the department, internal conflicts in the department and also unnecessary conflicts in the management of social dialogue and cooperation with other authorities in the government. In view of these findings, we assume that the new Minister, when elected, will certainly have to be very cooperative with the Government, with the President of the Government and with the other ministers, and that such disagreements and conflicts will not arise, which means, in itself, that we can expect the content of the continuation of the Government's policy in this area. This is not what we like most because we are convinced that this policy has been inadequate on many issues. That is true, it can also be understood from the written explanation given by the Prime Minister of the Government, from his oral explanation today, which was really formal and not substantive and in-depth, and from the presentation of the candidate at the meeting of the parent working body, in which she spoke relatively little about the substantive issues, presented or stated more or less with the name of 13 laws which are the priority of the Government this year, and perhaps only a few sentences spoke substantively about the pension reform, its position and the position of the Government that specific policies for raising fertility will no longer be proposed in the procedure, which we think is understandable, since, at the time of the proposal for a resolution, Mr President of the Government has made it clear that he believes that the issues that are regulated in the Constitution and which constitute the ideology of issues are no longer appropriate. And it has advocated a special law against violence, which has not been so pronounced in the government's programming work so far. On other questions, however, I must say that I think it was very formal, even in its answers, and mainly explained the things we know and what the current government policy is. Let me say, therefore, that in Social Democracy, we want government policy in the field of work, family and social affairs to be more focused on the following areas. Firstly, it would be less restrictive policies and more active policies and incentives. I would also like to mention a public opinion survey from November 2006, which shows that only September, October, November, November from 8% to 12% of those polled and negative from 55% to 51% of those polled on the question of what the situation is in this area compared to the last two years. This confirms that even in perception, understanding and experience, most of the current social situation in question is worse, which is also in line with our views and the legislation adopted in this area. We believe that, in particular, in the area of employment, which is one of the foundations of social security - without employment, it is difficult to count on our own social security of the family or on the establishment of a family - that in this direction legislation has been adopted in the last two years, which has reduced the rights and conditions of the unemployed, especially in the Employment and Insurance Act for the case of unemployment and the Social Protection Act, we have been particularly concerned by the Law on the regulation of social transfers, where we are not prepared to listen to anything else, even the beneficial amendments no, for at least 2.5%, to lower the nominal value of all social transfers in the country, but many more. This, on the basis of claims that this Government wants to continue to lead a balanced social policy and to care for the situation of the weakest. Also with regard to the labour market, which should be one of the government's priorities in the future, we must say that, according to our assessment, the Slovenian labour market is only not as flexible as the Government is pleased to show, as has been shown so far by the Minister or some members of the coalition. The vast majority of new jobs are being concluded for a certain period of time, and the proportion of jobs is constantly decreasing for an indefinite period of time. However, employment for a fixed period of time is indeed the only advantage in terms of job security for the employee, as there is no possibility of immediate cancellation in relation to fixed-term employment and, above all, there is no possibility of obtaining a loan, especially a long-term loan and so on. There is an increasing number of jobs that are no longer available in normal contracts of employment, but only through business and copyright contracts, because this way entrepreneurs ensure that they can have an employee or work for them until such work, when they no longer have one, puts him on the road overnight, and he needs to know and know how he will arrange his life. There are still many problems with the employment of young women and mothers. Security in the workplace is shrinking, and we are therefore concerned about what will be the new direction in the current policy and what new proposals will be made by the Government that the labour market situation will not deteriorate. Secondly, what the Government is really stressing is that we are interested in and concerned about whether or not there will be a new quality of social dialogue. Whoever wants to know that our party, that Social Democrats were the ones we recommended to the Government already in January 1998 and that we ensured the adoption of an appropriate decision in the National Assembly, which recommended to the Government that whenever it comes to issues that mean a partnership dialogue, this agreement should be reached by the partners if it does not reach it, at least let the National Assembly know what attempts were made to do what it tried to do to achieve the agreement, where it is and where it is not and why it is not achieved. Mr President of the Government, at the time of the discharge of Minister Drobnic, pointed out that the lack of respect for the partnership dialogue and the unfair treatment of trade unions was one of the important reasons why he proposed its resolution. We believe that, for a particular reason, if we remember how important issues we have tried to resolve with dialogue and with the social partners in the previous mandate: the pension system, the working relationship, employment and unemployment insurance, where European solutions have already come up, and today many of the supplements proposed by the Government would no longer be necessary. Third. I would like to point out that we are very pleased, that the Government is counting on the nation-building opposition and we imagine that we are, but we would like to remind the Government that the Government does not offer free or open deadlines for such cooperation many times. We, who are in the National Assembly, know this well, because we know how many specific issues there were where ideas, the opposition's proposals, were simply disregarded and were not prepared to talk about them. We have proposed two laws on the participation of workers in profits. The candidate for Minister, Mrs Cotmanova, was the one who, on behalf of the Government, said that the laws were unacceptable and had already promised on behalf of the Government in September 2005 that the Government had better solutions and would propose them as soon as possible. More than a year is left in the promise, even though our proposals have been rejected. Similarly, proposals for regulating the situation of workers' participation in management are being made. At the previous meeting, we proposed to postpone this issue for only a month, and then current Minister Drobnic firmly rejected us. I hope there's a little more readiness for the new minister now. As far as employment is concerned. We have proposed that the Employment Act and the Social Policy Act should not, at least for those who finish higher and higher education and seek employment for the first time, require any work, regardless of the difference in the level of education. We suggested that the difference should be at least two levels, if not less. The government has not accepted this on the grounds that it is necessary to accept every job, although we have warned that accepting someone who has just come from school, a job that is unadjusted for more than two levels of education can also mean that he will never work again in his profession, since there is relatively little supply in these professions. Not to mention the social transfers I have already mentioned. Let me finish. We expect that the Ministry, under the new minister, will assess its work so far, that it will propose that the government also assess it and that there will be changes in the policy of this department. In such a case, we will be very pleased to support the proposals and try to build on their content with our suggestions. Otherwise, we will remain in empty words, which unfortunately would not have happened for the first time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u126	Thank you. Member Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u127	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Council of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Nova Slovenija proposed to the Prime Minister, Janez Janša, Ms Marjeto Cotman, a candidate for Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. We are pleased that the President of the Government has accepted our proposal. In the proposal, we were led by candidates for professional experience, especially experience in the last two years as State Secretary or Deputy Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. In the New Slovenia Group, we give high priority to family policy. In the Republic of Slovenia, we need to make substantial moves in this area, in the field of family, as values. Therefore, the New Slovenia Group expects from the candidate a consistent implementation of the coalition treaty in the area to be entrusted to it, with particular emphasis on the care of families in Slovenia. Your Honor! I convey my support to Mrs Mariti Cotman, the candidate for Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and I wish her, on behalf of the New Slovenia delegation in her field, many successes and happy hands in an extremely difficult and responsible work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u128	Thank you, too. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will unanimously support the candidate for Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. We respect in the first place the will of our coalition partner, New Slovenia, who has chosen a candidate, to forward the proposal to the Prime Minister of the Government. He also agreed with the proposal to appoint a minister, including a candidate for Minister, to the National Assembly. The area of work that the candidate, Mrs Marjeta Cotman, takes if the decision of the National Assembly is such as we do not doubt is extremely wide and difficult. Given that Mrs Cotmanova has so far served as a secretary of state in the same ministry, in our view, the content of the remainder of her term of office is well known. This certainly allows her to be immediately and effectively involved in the preparation of the relevant legislative proposals, which the candidate has also quite clearly presented in her presentation on the home working body. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, however, we expect from the future Minister a delicate attitude towards issues and proposals concerning the most vulnerable groups of citizens and citizens, as well as those who are profitable in the lower part of our society. Above all, we expect her to have as genuine a partnership as possible at all levels, and that even when the partners here, I think mainly of the social partners, are not the easiest interlocutor, they also change their attitude towards resolving issues that are related to the current situation and situations within our society as a whole and are part of our common destiny. The Minister's success in implementing the many projects ahead of her will depend in many ways on her fellow workers or team around her, thereby linking her relationship to people who are willing to work hard and well. The situation so far in this ministry has not been very good. As we say, we want her to have a lot of money, including stubbornness and perseverance. We will stand by her with good suggestions in support.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u130	Thank you. Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u131	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues and, of course, ministers and ministers. The presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party Group will not sound as optimistic as the presentations of some speakers were before me. I'm going to start by using a sentence delivered by the Prime Minister of the Government at today's meeting when he said the Government was doing well. No referendum, no veto. He specifically spoke about the financial field. But if that's when he said the government was doing good, then at this point, I can't say it. For in the field of past work in the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Labour, the Family and Social Affairs, under the ministry of Mr Drobnič, the State Council voted five vetoes per five laws. But these are laws that have been essentially confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Otherwise, in the Slovenian National Party, because of the poor, destructive work of Minister Drobnič in one of the most sensitive areas, we have already approached the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs before its resolution, in fact, to interpret the work and responsibility of the said Minister. But I stress that it is not just the work and responsibility of the minister mentioned, it is the work and responsibility of the entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has endorsed or adopted such a policy. The findings were a breakdown of the concept of the social state, a lack of respect, a avoidance of dialogue between social partners, then an exclusionary approach in the preparation of so-called war laws, supported by ideological approaches to overestimating past history, an inadequate policy in the field of parenting, child protection, the destruction of the social profession, the deprivation of acquired rights of patients with asbestos disease and could still be listed. In short, past policies or reports have been reflected in the very laws, the bad ones themselves, and, as I have already said, supported even by the branches of the State Council. And it is no coincidence that a future minister or a candidate for a minister at the hearing at the home labour body was also asked in connection with her actions, specifically regarding patients suffering from asbestos. This law or veto will also be voted on in this session of the National Assembly. The consequences of inadequate policy continue to be seen in practice as a decrease in the rights of that segment of people who are in fact most dependent on State aid and consequently a decrease in social standards. Minister Drobnič repeatedly cited misleading information that all the laws that were in line with the social partners within the Economic and Social Council, even with expertise, were always misleading. I argue that the vast majority of the laws drawn up are past tripartite coordination, past the agreement or agreement reached, past taking into account the comments of the profession and even past the public concerned. I will repeat those laws, which were not harmonised, but have nevertheless been adopted, endorsed by the Government and Parliament: the amendment of the Social Protection Act, the amendment of the Minimum Wage Act, the Collective Contract, the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the Proposal for a Law on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia, the Proposal for a Minimum Wage Law, the amendment of the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act. In fact, since this was one of the key points of view to the past minister, which, I believe, is why the Prime Minister of the Government has also decided and proposed or requested the discharge of the Minister, the new candidate, who also comes from the ranks of New Slovenia, has committed herself, which she also confirmed at the meeting of the home labour force, to pay particular attention to social dialogue. Since, as has already been said, a number of laws have been inconsistent over the past two years, because of the social justice that this coalition is keen to stress, as well as in terms of the credibility of the candidate or new minister, it would point out that past laws have been reopened and corrected in all those parts where they have been uncoordinated and are therefore weak or even harmful in terms of social justice. However, as the so-called "hearing" could be heard on the parent's working body, this is not part of the new minister's plan, because she is confident, despite the facts that say otherwise, that the laws have been harmonised. In its plan, according to the committee's words last week, the continuation of the implementation of government policy in the field of work, family and social affairs, those policies that have proven to be a bad policy in the past. So if I mention the degradation of education, forced humanitarian work, social grading, the redistribution of asbestos patients, the attempt to reorganise students, the abolition of student work for the purpose of increasing social scholarships In the report that we have heard from the president of the home labour force today, we read: "The Minister will endeavour to prepare guidelines for the prevention of domestic violence even thinks that this area will be regulated by law." [[...]] I'm asking who's making fun of who, respected colleagues and colleagues. While the Government should have already prepared legislative proposals, these are, last but not least, the demands of the European Union, the Council of Europe, not least the commitments in the coalition treaty itself, even the decisions adopted in the National Assembly, the future Minister will only seek to draw up guidelines in this area. I will remind you of the meeting of 2 February 2005 in this Parliament, the government representative, who said that the Government had put in its work programme for 2005 to include the draft law on protection against violence and said further: "We are preparing a complex treatment of violence in one law." This was February 2, 2005, today is December 2006. And in December 2006, the Minister is still working on guidelines for the prevention of domestic violence. Allow me to read another answer from the candidate's response, and I will say a flower, I hope so, but I sincerely hope that it was an embarrassment to say that the candidate does not actually believe in what she said. I quote: "Because of the very maintenance of the pension system and because of the large number of unemployed older persons, we are striving to get young people into the job as quickly as possible." - End of story. I am now asking how the Government is actually striving to get young people to work as quickly as possible. And let me answer again with the words or quote of a candidate for a minister who says, "With the law on scholarships, because it will increase scholarships and make students less work and thus promote as quickly as possible employment." - End of story. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Bologna study by the system introduced by Minister Zupan is actually taking just as long a time as university studies under the old system are taking place today, of course from the point of view of an equivalent level of education. That's the first fact. Second fact. Young people today, if they are already delaying their studies, not because of working through a student service during regular education, but pull out half a year, they are pulling out one year because they simply do not have jobs because they do not get a job when they finish their regular education at the higher education institution. The Minister, as she said, will increase the employability of young people by making scholarships available during the study. Interesting. As regards changes or strategies under the pension system. She didn't really know the Minister's candidate, but if you look at the magnetogram, she couldn't say anything but that the system we have today in the Republic of Slovenia will be sustainable for 20 years, so they don't have and they don't even intend to have it in the next two years. I will recall that the strategy in this area of the sustainability of the pension system within the European Union is one of the priorities of Germany, which will chair the European Union in the coming period. In fact, what more members of that professional work, if we can even talk about professional answers, did not know about the parent’s working body itself. Nor did we learn the emphasis on changes in so-called war laws. Given that the New Slovenia programme, of which Mrs Cotmanova is also a member, states that we will become a society of a cleansed historical memory. To summarize or conclude with words that I have already uttered at the meeting of my mother's working body. The Minister's candidate did not give any concrete answer to any particular issue raised by the opposition. All we've heard was a brief summary of the government guidelines already planned, which, last but not least, was implemented by Minister Drobnič with a team that remains on the Ministry. More or less unchanged, only the leading man, the minister, has been replaced. And since in the Slovenian National Party we assess that the past policy in this area has been poor, we will not and cannot support the former Secretary of State for the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u132	Thank you. A colleague of mags. Franc Žnidaršič will give his position to the DeSUS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear ministers and coworkers, colleagues and colleagues. Our parliamentary group will support the candidate for Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. We believe that it has the appropriate competence, knows the area and expects it to spend its spiritual potential in the best way possible to maintain the policy of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which will benefit the widest range of our citizens concerned. In her presentation, she ensured that she would respect and maintain social dialogue, adding that we expect her to maintain dialogue in other areas that concern individual actors or affected groups of citizens when it comes to the legislation of this department. We're thinking mostly about the pension system. With regard to the pension system, we miss the promise or commitment that the ministry will start and try to unload the pension allowance of everything that does not belong to it, in order to finally determine how much the State gives to all pensioners whose pension comes from paid contributions and past work. We expect that this procedure, however, will fail to speak in the future when it comes to what is really lacking in this cash register. Of course, we expect the Minister to implement the coalition commitment to prepare a comprehensive programme for the protection of the elderly, within which we rely primarily on the continuation of the enrichment of resources in the field of institutional protection, and I do not mean just us building capacity in the private-state partnership, but also further funding for the construction of bed facilities by the State and the municipalities, in order to ensure the attainable cost of care in these homes. Of course, it is also necessary to realize the long-promised long-term care that has long been promised, to support and continue to develop assistance at home, of course, within possible efforts, in order for more workers in the age group to be over 55 years old, to create adapted jobs for older people, which is the practice of some other European countries, thus allowing older workers and to some extent exhausted workers to continue to participate in the work process. This would ensure higher social security and also higher old-age pensions. Of course, we expect it to be in the labour market, which is not as flexible as we think. With regard to that criterion in this area, which refers to temporary or indefinite employment or part-time work, it should be noted that 50% of young people, for example, are already employed in part-time or part-time employment, which is too high a rate. We expect that efforts will be made mainly in the area of APZ, this being the real active employment policy for the opening of new jobs, for the training or training of hard-working workers for jobs available and thus for the reduction of unemployment in certain age segments. We are counting on the fact that there will actually be an expression of the area of scholarship. We all know that the scholarship is too small for young people to study because of their difficulties and therefore serve the student work, which has fuelled the spirits of recent times due to certain unresolved shortcomings and certain deviations in this student work. Of course, students understood this as some kind of punishment, and on the other hand it is actually a conflict of objective survival opportunities during the study period, on the one hand, and on the other hand the labour market, which students occupy in this way in a certain percentage. We expect the Minister, after being appointed in the field of war laws, to make maximum efforts to resolve these laws in such a way as to achieve the widest possible consensus within Parliament and to contribute in this way to ending the old divisions and, of course, to prevent new, particularly ideological conflicts, and without ambition, to keep looking back at some things when they should be resolved in a way that would be a wolf and a goat as a whole. We hope that the Minister will live up to our expectations, that she will also make her presentation in practice, and that we will support her, convinced that it is not good to judge a man before he has done anything, and only then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u134	Thank you. My colleague, Jože Tanko, will give his position to the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings to the minister, to the other government representative, to the fellow MP! Today we will decide on the first replacement of the Minister in this mandate. The President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, has presented to us a proposal for the appointment of Mrs Marjeta Cotman, the Secretary of State, as Minister of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. We can say that in two years of the mandate of this government and these coalitions have undergone many changes, improvements, simplifications. Many things have become more balanced and normal or more similar to the solutions common in developed European countries. Much work has also been done in the field of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Although there has been a lack of regulation, we have adopted some important and good laws. During this time, we have also set up some areas that former liberal or social democratic ministers did not want to go to work, but although they had much to say about their liberal values, they have usually been uniform or equal to social values, or they have talked a lot about social justice. Such a liberal remnant, regulated by this coalition, is the issue of same-sex. In the interviews that we had with this minority group of people, they were amazed that we had made arrangements to regulate their status. For years and years, they were merely talking to some sensitive and outgoing human rights defenders. It was just a conversation, and it didn't do anything at all. A considerable amount of intervention has also been carried out in the area of pensions, as there has been a significant reduction or even a balance of pensions compared to salaries, and the situation of pensioners who have earned pensions in other republics has also improved. Measures have been taken to prevent work in black, student work has begun to be regulated, disability problems, problems for the elderly, as well as some major steps have been taken in the area of scholarship. The previous coalition has not yet gotten over the correction of pension legislation and has not missed a chance to tell pensioners that they are and that they will be a burden on public finances. We feel that they are not burdensome and that the proper pension belongs to them. And we will do everything to maintain excellent economic and other indicators at such a level that pensioners will also be provided with security, even after 2010 or 2020. During these two years we have also received three new national holidays, allowing the three Slovenian countries to remember the milestones of their past, to emphasize their landscape spirit and to rejoice in joining Slovenia. And a lot of other things have been done. However, some problems have also arisen in the two years leading up to the ministry. Some are also quite insurmountable. Above all, in regulating the relationship between employers and employees, things were not going well and there will be a need to restore mutual trust and respect. Discussions will have to be made on a new path if we want there to be confidence that the negotiation process will be successfully completed. We expect negotiators to find compromise and acceptable solutions for labour legislation, for the early conclusion of a social agreement setting out the conditions for the next period of its validity. A slightly different approach will have to be made to cooperation within the Government, to coalition partners in the National Assembly, to other parliamentary parties, and also to a number of institutions and offices that are distributed throughout the country. From the candidate, whom I hope to receive approval in the National Assembly, I expect patient and thoughtful moves to work with the co-workers, with the institutions, with the social partners, I expect good cooperation with the National Assembly, because a very calm, patient dialogue must be one of the fundamental leaders of the Ministry. We expect accelerations in the areas where things have stalled. In addition to working legislation, it will also be necessary to complete legislation concerning our half-life since some innocent victims of the world's largest sea are extremely criminal. The Constitutional Court's decision is the basis for a re-examination of the views of some parliamentary parties that have completely halted the process of solving and eliminating historical injustices. Social sense and payment for the continued suffering of innocent victims, many of whom are children or violently mobilized into foreign armies, should prevail over ideological positions. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the candidate is well aware of the structure and content of the work of the department, that she has adequate professional qualifications and work experience to manage. We expect the candidate to continue the programme of government reforms, the success of which is proven and confirmed from day to day. At the same time, we cannot go beyond excellent macroeconomic indicators, especially economic growth, real wage growth, reducing unemployment rates, meeting the requirements of the Stability Pact and many others. These are achievements that would be enjoyed in all the countries of the European Union. At every step, abroad shows us respect, stresses our achievements, sets us as an example to ourselves and to other countries that would like to join the European system. There are prejudices and disrespects in our lives. It is extremely difficult for a home opponent to admit that he is good, even harder to do better. We'll get used to it, and we'll get through this. It is important that the tax and administrative barriers are weakened at all levels. Some comments on achievements are also interesting. One of the journalists of a very read Slovenian daily, in his contribution to the title page, so simplified them that he justified high 5.6% economic growth in the last period by pre-election asphalting several kilometres of roads and village sidewalks built in months prior to local elections. Perhaps it was only when reading that someone came to light that Europe did not have the expected growth. However, just as easily as it was written down, it is not and probably not exactly an accident. The achievement of such results is a much more difficult process, much more needs to be done for it and many decisive, coordinated and complex moves, appropriate timing and situation must be drawn. Every government, every government or every coalition can't do that, so we haven't done that before. All key indicators such as economic growth, real wage growth, including growth in consumption, improved labour market conditions and many others are also linked to the work of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and have a direct impact on the planning of its policy. The policy of this Ministry must complement tax, economic, administrative and other measures, complement facilitation, simplification and provide additional incentives. Economic success also has a direct impact on the need for certain types of social transfers. Only good economic growth and other achievements that are encouraged by attractive tax and other policies and the effective use of external conditions and conditions give real meaning to active employment policies. Otherwise, this in itself cannot offer the expected effects. So Slovenia is experiencing a transformation that we have never witnessed before. We will try to keep these trends going in the future. The team that guides our country's executive policy works very well, but sometimes something needs to be replaced or refreshed. We expect that the change at the head of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will accelerate the resolution of precisely those shortcomings that we have already seen and that some social partners are also alerting us to. There is also a need for changes in the field of labour legislation that will follow changes in other areas, and this part must also contribute to further economic growth. It is necessary to allow a slightly greater mobility and flexibility for employers and employees, as conditions, conditions and programmes are changing more rapidly. Here too, we must follow European trends and good practices if we are to maintain or improve the high rates of growth of performance indicators. In the parliamentary group, we expect the candidate to successfully pass the procedure in the National Assembly and be able to meet the expectations of the coalition, the social partners and the Slovenian public. We expect that its results will further strengthen and consolidate the new path by which Slovenia is moving towards the top of Europe. We will support the candidate in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u136	Thank you, Comrade Tanko. My colleague, Aleš Gulič, will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u137	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Here I have the text of the drama titled Marjetka Cotman, but I will only read the concluding act so that I will not tire you too much. Slovenia is experiencing a transformation that we have not yet experienced, we have just heard, and it is, of course, that we can fully agree with. Indeed, in this Government, the social objectives to the lower levels of sustainability are subordinated to economic ones. This Government is not aware of the fact that Slovenia's problem is not only how to improve prosperity, which is of course important, but that it is a significantly bigger problem in how to preserve the social state. When we were on the committee, we were most interested in what the candidate thinks, what measures she intends to take, what to encourage, that we will not completely dismantle the social state. These are matters that have taken place over the last two years and in which candidate Marjetka Cotman has actively participated. But then we actually wanted to draw some conclusions from all of this, whether it was a continuity, a continuation of this work, or perhaps an enlightenment. Well, after the discussion, according to the answers to the questions, it became clear, with all the avoidable statements and generalized tirades, that there would be no enlightenment that we would stay where we are, or that we would take another step back for the adventure. Members of the Committee, regardless of which party we came from, we have raised a number of important issues relevant to citizens and citizens of Slovenia, for their social situation, for their placement. But there was no answer. It was not clear which measures the Minister would try to introduce, what it would encourage to preserve the social state. We came there with some will to vote for her to become a minister. However, we were forced to take into account her answers and the result was what it was that we were against. At the presentation of her programme under the watchful eye of the former Minister, candidate Marjetka Cotman told us only what regulations and laws she already has in the programme and which she intends to implement in 2007. That's all. Expressing technically and, in fact, quite a bit off-limits. I must say that we have been disappointed in mild words, and in the end it seemed to us that in the Republic of Slovenia, however this vote would take place, and whatever the outcome, we will not reach the Minister, but we will reach, say, the Ombudsman of the plans of the former Minister or that she will remain Deputy Minister with a slightly different status. In the coming years, it appears that there will be a stalemate in this area and that the problems will then be significantly greater, or that there will be a lot of seed left for the next term, to anyone else. That is why, even today, all Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will not support the proposal and we will vote against the election of this candidate. But despite what we know, what we know, what appears to be, we want the Slovenian citizens and citizens to be good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u138	Thank you, too. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. The first one has the word, Member Mira Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u139	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good bye to all of you. I support candidate Marjetko Cotman. I think that on the parental committee she was right in the presentation and I hope or I am sure that she will not wear too many shoes and that she will be able to walk after this difficult parquet. The resource it takes is extremely demanding. If I simplify, the one who loses his job is facing social, social, or other social. And because of these social pressures, the family suffers a lot. And this is the area with which we are basically connected for the rest of our lives, from children's allowances, to scholarships, and the employment agency, the social work centre, the pension and the disability institution. On this occasion, I would like to draw attention to something that is very rarely mentioned in relation to social affairs. This is customerism and nepotism in many social institutions in Slovenia. Public calls for many construction and reconstruction works are often designed to take place in some narrow, family, or friendly circles. It is similar with invitations to supply food to these social institutions. These are usually made on an already known supplier. And the various gold medals provided for in these calls for proposals add additional points. And often all that's missing is a name and a last name. However, complaints are often unheard of. I've had cases like this in my office. If the future minister is interested, I can say it in concrete terms. So nepotism, corruption and clientism are not only taking place in large systems, in large projects, perhaps in the road industry, but also in areas where it is supposed to be social, where it is supposed to be about some kind of justice. Of course, it hasn't been since yesterday, it's been happening for decades and more. I also expect the future minister to look at in her department who is sitting in a position and to distance herself from those employees who have a direct connection with the criminal underworld. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u140	Thank you, too. Member Jakob the Presbyterian has the floor. He's not in the hall. Member Willie Rezman has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Now it is certainly no longer about finding out what was wrong in the past and what the Minister has done to lose confidence, but more about finding out what and how to do in the future. The question is whether a candidate for a minister is capable of doing what is expected of her and how she will do it. Of course, here are our expectations, our interests, our desires, our ambitions very different. We can see that some would like to see the reform path maintained and that some others would like to break up with it immediately. We can see that some feel that, nevertheless, something that has been shown so far must be defended irresistibly, and some others feel more that it is necessary to plead for as much negotiation, tolerance and agreement as possible, even for what compromises can be reached. Again, some feel it is necessary to defend the ideological framework from which it has been dealt with so far. We are many, however, opposed to following some ideological paradigms, and we are more concerned that functioning is pragmatic, such that it is in the interests of citizens and citizens. And again, some feel that it would be best if the Minister no longer functioned under the coalition contract, but some others judge or judge, even among the things that are part of the coalition treaty, but there is still a lot to be done and that there is a lot to be done more quickly, at a faster pace than we have known before. In particular, I think it would be a mistake to give up now and do nothing more on one of the basic ideas in the area of social protection, which speaks of the need to avoid unjustified privileges and abuses, because they too must be paid by others. And it would be right to actually work in a direction that would prefer that people, with the help of the state, would really be looking for work and activity rather than being made up of social treasures. Those who are faced with these problems in everyday practice are certainly not in a position to keep their eyes closed. Most of the time, all the mayors know this, they don't look back on what customers come from, the difference between us is probably just that one of them closes their eyes to it for political reasons, and the other one doesn't. As far as I am concerned, I believe that the candidate for minister has sufficient experience to have an adequate education. I hope that she will be able to get out of her ideological boots, and if she succeeds, and if she does pragmatically, then I am sure that, even with the help that comes from our species, she will be able to bring this mandate right to an end, because now, for radical change, for new ideas, there is no time for new creations. I'll support her candidacy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Member Ivan Grill has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister and all present! We can no doubt say that Slovenia is a social state, that it has a high level of social security and can be an example to many countries. The government, which runs Slovenia in this mandate, has also set itself one of the most important goals of maintaining such a level of social security or increasing it in the future. Looking back now over the past two years, we see that many of the laws in this area have made many changes, which have also contributed to raising social security. We know that today, in Slovenia, unemployment is at the lowest level since we are a single country, and unemployment is declining or is expected to decline in the future. As I have already mentioned, the level of social security is higher than it was, and above all transparency has increased in this area, as social security does not mean that the recipient of social assistance is anyone who can abuse it, but is socially just that if they receive social assistance, it is the one who needs it. And in the past there has been a lot of abuse, and now there has been much greater progress in this area. We know that we have also begun to provide funding for scholarships by amending legislation. This will also make our young people's future scholarship bigger than it has been before. We know that we have made a significant move or amendment in the area of pension legislation to eliminate those injustices to our pensioners who were caused by the amendment of the legislation in the previous term when they were deprived of a rather fine number of pensions. Now this anomaly has been removed, which is also correct. Nevertheless, we have an extremely important period ahead of us, and we have all the important tasks ahead of us. This particular area of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is one of those pillars that will have to provide much more, much change below. We know that labour legislation is one of the fundamental necessary changes that will regulate this area in a modern way, so that this labour market will meet the new challenges of globalisation and also the fact that Slovenia is a member of the European Union, that it is in the open labour market and that these changes are necessary. There is a need to provide for changes in the employment of persons with disabilities to address these differences, which are still present, and changes are foreseen here. Pension legislation is also needed to continue to improve it, to try to ensure that there is also a possibility of partial retirement and to allow all those who want to use it so that they can also partially retire. We know that the ageing of the population is also a fact that Slovenia cannot avoid and with this, not the phenomenon, but the facts also need to be tackled more intensively, more deliberately than we have been given in the past. In this area it is also necessary to provide new facilities at home for our elders and also to provide home security. This is an important task, which the Ministry must carry out particularly carefully in the future. The law on scholarships, on ensuring adequate nutrition for our secondary school students, is an area where we need to provide more opportunities for scholarships, better nutrition and thus ensure a higher and better level of our study. Last but not least, we know that very little time separates us from Slovenia's EU presidency, and this is also one of the important challenges that the Ministry of Field must meet. For a candidate for a minister, these are major challenges, but I am sure that Mrs Cotman will be a match for these challenges, so I can give her my vote right now. In those two years, when she was a secretary of state, I have been given an actual positive opinion on her work through my cooperation with her director or director, and I know that she has been very professional and, above all, a good interlocutor in all the areas she has represented. It will be able to prepare with its colleagues all the necessary legislation that we will have to adopt in the coming period. So far, it has proved to be a good interlocutor with trade unions, with various NGOs, with civil society, and I believe that it will also be able to establish a real dialogue in the future and to bring open questions to an appropriate level, where we will then be able to address and confirm it in the National Assembly. I am sure that this is a good candidate and I believe that the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, is satisfied with this choice or with this proposal, which was submitted by Nova Slovenija, and I therefore support this proposal and, as I have already mentioned, Mrs Cotmanov has my vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u144	Thank you. Member Stanislav Brenčič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Happy Friend has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Look, the government wants more dialogue in the social field, that's what Mr President of the Government said. It is also likely that less unemployment and even less poverty, resulting in more satisfied citizens and citizens. And I believe that the President of the Government did not make a blind decision when he proposed a replacement at this department. But the decision is bad because he decided to be the accomplice to today’s problems. The Secretary of State is the right-hand man for the minister. And if she was just doing a little bit of work, there's a lot of work visible in the work of the minister. Today you claim the other way around. I'm just going to tell you a few stupid things that some people have been saying, and I'm not going to name them so I don't start the replicas. Asbestos - yes, tomorrow we will be discussing asbestos again for five hours. This minister or candidate advocates this law. We heard earlier that the problem of the elderly will be solved if we build homes for the elderly. Only with this will we solve the problem of the elderly, please, what a ridiculous argument for giving such an important voice! I am concerned that in one year we will have not 40,000 poor and not 100,000 unemployed and that next year, after a very short period of time, we will discuss the exchange of this very person again. This worries me, because if this continuity of bad work continues, it won't help to re-air the premises in this ministry, because we know that a lot of bad marriages and a lot of bad taxation came from these rooms. That is why I will not vote for such a bad decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Tomaž Strabe.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor! I see no reason why I should not support the proposal of the President of the Government. This is a complete natural continuation of the work of this ministry and this government. First of all, let me express the satisfaction that the composition of the Government, as far as women in the government are concerned, will be fixed by 100%, which should make them most happy with everything else. The opinions of individual parliamentary groups on the work of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs are one thing, and the other is as normal the functioning of this Government and this ministry by the end of this mandate, given the plans and commitments adopted. In her presentation, Minister Marjeta Cotmanov presented the outstanding work to be done by the end of this term. And I think it's the same. There can be no change in the Minister's policy, given the whole government's position. I think, however, that it will be precisely with its soothing way of communicating or with its character - it is also not negligible that now, as a minister and as a woman, it is in some way more appropriate to communicate in certainly not easy negotiations between the social partners. However, all those criticisms of the previous Minister, if you are honest, can be aware that Slovenia and Europe, in all these social demands and pressures, especially due to the ageing of the population and many inherited rights that are used primarily, are not in conflict with rights, but, above all, that they are exploited, and that there is no proper review of them, that there is a need to act here in favour, not of reducing these rights, but of being fairly acquired or allocated, and that these rights are not harmed by the flexibility of the economy and other areas of education, employment that only contribute to a better social situation that can only be guaranteed through a successful economy. With a successful economy, which, of course, requires a successful education and, earlier, education and primary and secondary education. Here Slovenia must be particularly careful, because if Europe has problems, compared to the most innovative and competitive companies or economies, and when we have examples in Europe of how social rights that are in some way distorted by new, particularly demographic circumstances, I am talking about countries such as Denmark, Sweden, Norway, as well as some other countries, not to mention those that may be too much for some of you, as I would say, market-oriented and less socially understanding, but are among the most successful, such as England. Here, in a way of mutual understanding of the social partners, it is necessary that the Minister, the Minister of such a resource, who in any event will not receive a comprehensive applause and support, seek in some calm way to achieve a long-term, sustainable, as we say, social market country or social market system that will allow both protection and protection of those who are needed for protection or assistance, as well as, on the other hand, a successful economy that is the foundation and source and source of all social states. Let me conclude by saying that I am actually happy and I hope, given that in any case the Minister will continue the policy of the Ministry and Government, that with a different, more appropriate way of communicating, which was in fact the greatest "hendikep" of the previous Minister, she will succeed and I want her to actually achieve such a social agreement with the Government and such measures in the field of social state, family policy and the like, that the state of Slovenia will be even more successful in the future and especially in the long term. I will support the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Government on the candidate for the Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and the family, and I really wish her a successful job and good coordination and the work of ministers in the government itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u148	Thank you, Comrade Staff. I give the word "magic." Anton Rope. The word has been delivered by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I didn't even have the intention of making an announcement if the speaker hadn't given me quite a few interesting points to respond to. First of all, I'm glad that you've admitted that women are more capable than men. I hope that Cotman will also be more capable than Minister Drobnič, but more capable in this direction of advocating greater social justice, including women, if you want within the Ministry of Field Affairs. Finally, I must say that I am pleased that you admit that there is no single mind in this government. Why? Because I have listened by the president or leader of the largest coalition party, not least one of the speakers before me, that how this Government is good, that even with its actions it is an example of a broad Europe because we are so good, so very successful, because under this Government we reach such very good numbers or indicators that other countries should follow the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, I hear from another speaker from the same party in front of me as much as we will ensure the normal functioning of this government by appointing Cotmanova to the Ministry or the City of Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. But despite the fact that I am glad that there is no unity in this government, it would still be wise for the representatives of the same party, when they speak of the candidate, when they praise the work of this government, to be united. Are we going to appoint this person instead of a ministry just to ensure that this government has as much normal functioning as possible in order to continue the work of this Ministry and Government? But then to such respected colleagues and colleagues, the Minister is not only as highly qualified as some claim? If you listen, I believe that the vast majority did not listen, nor did you read a magnetogram from the mother's working body, where the minister presented her work in the next two years, or the work of this government, not from her personal point of view in the field of social, work, family. If you read or listen to what she said, you would know that this person is not qualified for this important and responsible work. I hope to state, at least on the basis of what has been heard, but not least, hearings for Members are available to give us a single insight into the work or strategy of a certain person who is running for the post of Minister or Minister. We have not received a single concrete answer to very specific questions, to questions which, lastly, also touch on the problems of population ageing. For the problems of the ageing of the people, hand to heart, cannot be solved simply by building houses for the pensioners or by means of so - called care at home. That's bad. And today I have heard in the debate that there is a need for order in this government or under this government in individual ministries, order around public calls, around the system of awarding concessions. You know, this was one of the findings that we wrote in the Slovenian National Party also in the proposal to interpret against Minister Drobnic. For Minister Drobnič was one of the first to grant concessions, which was awarded or awarded to those individuals or people or societies, organizations that were close to him in any way. Papers exist. And what is customerism? I'm asking the guy who mentioned that word. But it comes from the largest coalition party. Is it not also customerism that the theologians are newly placed in the field of social protection, but not only classified, they even have a priority in the employment of leading directors? This is what happens in the homes of pensioners. This is happening in various organisations receiving funding from calls for proposals. Here, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is necessary to make order. I reiterate that I will not support the candidate for Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u150	Thank you. You weren't appointed? No, you weren't, and that's why I'm not giving you the replica from this address. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u151	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! It is quite interesting today's debate, which we can hear from coalition Members here, about the former two-year mandate of managing this ministry to Mr Drobnic, in fact, is quite different from what they said when it came to his discharge. At the same time, they say that it is a proposal for the new leadership of this ministry to understand through the continuation of government policy so far. Representatives of this ruling coalition are going so far as to talk about everything that has happened in this two-year term. On exceptional economic growth, on the growth of gross wages, and forgetting the warning adopted by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs through the Minimum Wages Act in this Parliament. However, we will make a substantial reduction in the social poor's compliance with the minimum wage. So for those who should be given the most support by this ministry, the government has done so differently. It was also very interesting to hear arguments today that the Government's policy was to continue. It is much less here today to hear that it will be the policy of this ministry when I read the reasoning of the Prime Minister of the Government, which states that she is justifying the proposal to appoint Mrs Marjeta Cotman as Minister of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs on the basis of her expertise and rich experience in the field of social protection, social care, family policy and employment. Unfortunately, when we look at her bibliography, we see that these rich experiences cannot be found as much as the President of the Government is trying to present to us. Even less, we can find confirmation of the authority of the Prime Minister of the Government on Mrs Cotman's expertise and rich experience on the basis of a picture that we Members have been able to create ourselves. We ourselves have been able to create this picture in this mandate through its two-year work as Secretary of State. And we were able to create an image of the rationale of the proposal, that is, as regards expertise and rich experience, also through its presentation on the working body of the mother. Today it has been said many times that this presentation was a great disappointment. I'm sorry about that. Here it goes to challenge the opinion of the President of the Government that he is proposing an expert candidate or candidate and that this candidate has extensive experience. At least from this first presentation and from a two-year work as State Secretary, it was not possible to detect this. For her explanations on marriage proposals were very modest. However, if the discussions were put on a much broader substantive solution, it was mostly her comment that the Government did not support any shift. As we speak today about the need to value economic growth, real wage growth, we can follow trends in the social sphere in a very different direction. We do not create on the basis of this employment that would employ those with a higher level of education. On the contrary, we went in the direction of law in which the unemployed would have to receive, that is, the unemployed, one or two levels of lower education. Furthermore, by means of system-wide tax laws, we stop stimulating employers in order to employ unemployment. Above all, those who seek their employment for the first time. We did a little non-systematic work. Little work while today we can monitor that most parts of the decision for a certain time are subject to substantially different conditions that would ensure social security. And today we can see that the Minister does not have a clear answer. It has no position whatsoever on what the amendment of labour law means for it, namely the Labour Relations Act, which creates a discussion in this Slovenian area of rights arising from work. So right to lunch, right to compensation for transport to work and other rights. Well, the minister doesn't have a point of view. It was very surprising that the minister did not answer her question about the asbestos law. This law has its fifth hearing tomorrow in this National Assembly. Unfortunately, in the past two years, the Minister has repeatedly, with an excuse to defend government policy and not be able to present her views, has not taken advantage of the opportunity she has had on her mother's working body. It remained completely gone, and the issue of this law was completely overexamined. In what way, given that the President of the Government himself has asked that more social dialogue be created on the issue of asbestos law, we can believe that the proposal on the table and justified by the President of the Government and even today by the coalition Members to establish a better social dialogue on this site would then be expected from the Minister, i.e. from the candidate for a minister, to make it clear. I do not agree with the solutions in the asbestos law because social dialogue has not been conducted. Therefore, it will be my first task to establish this possibility of social dialogue and to seek better solutions. Unfortunately, this answer to a specific question could not be heard. It was also not possible to hear the answer to whether it agreed with the Prime Minister's assessment that the unions, when alerting them not to conduct social dialogue, should gather when the weather is good and it is too bad that they are coming and alerting them to the accumulated problems of this government and this department when the weather conditions are worse. So, on such specific substantive concerns, the candidate does not present clear views, as we expect her to defend her views as a minister and coordinate them at the level of the government as a common government position, or we can imagine that we will have a minister who will convey the government's views as our own. We think in the Liberal Democracy that, through all the kinds of laws that we have adopted in the framework of the National Assembly on the proposal of this Ministry, we have had a completely different view that we are talking about the fact that, of course, the social state in the Republic of Slovenia is being violated in the last two years and that social dialogue is not being conducted and that, on the basis of all that we can, from the experience of the candidate's work so far and on the basis of a presentation that has been very scrupulous and, in fact, as has been said here today, is already technically oriented, but not substantively rich, I could not express my support for the Minister for the very important department, for the Minister for Labour, for the family, for the social affairs and for the disabled. Of course, I would like, given that this ministry will actually cover the fates of most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, that the assessments are wrong, that is, the assessment so far, and that Mrs Cotmanov will be able to justify what the President of the Government states as a justification by leading this ministry. Therefore, it is a proposal with its expertise and rich experience and knowledge of the work of the Government and the National Assembly, which will enable it to perform successfully the work of the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u152	Thank you, too. Here you go, fellow Stafford.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u153	Mr. Chairman! I demand that, in accordance with Article 70, you give me a chance to replicate. It says here, at least the debater has the right to reply to another debater's debate as far as this debate relates to his debate. Mrs Tavševa has appointed me as the previous speaker and has characterized me as the one who is supposed to argue that women are more capable than men. And please give me a chance to replicate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u154	During the meeting I explain the Rules of Procedure and have explained it to you. We continue the debate. I am informing you, however, that the time for consideration of this item will be divided and that each of the Members or Members will still have the opportunity to debate. It will only be necessary to apply and to know the other articles of the Rules of Procedure. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Milan M. Squeakle. He's not here. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor. He's not here. And I would like to take the floor by inviting a representative of the government. He's not here. All the discussers who wanted the word also received it on the basis of the list of applicants. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, we will divide the remaining time on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to sign up. We have four MPs. Member Happy Friend has the floor. Here you go. Five minutes each.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. The fact that there is no government representative is, of course, a very sad fact with such an important decision being taken here today. What's even sadder is that this hall is half empty. We would like to see that, if such a serious subject is addressed, the applicant is present. And it would be wise to invite the Prime Minister of the Government to be in the hall. Since it's available to us for a while. It is right that we can speak because we need to be more calculating in the distribution of this time available to us, I would like to tell myself some facts, because it clearly and clearly points me to not press the key for. Look, this money that we spent in this room to discuss in asbestos law, if we gave it to asbestos patients, would satisfy all their needs. And this law, which will be reopened tomorrow in the procedure and treatment to which the Council of State vetoes, is also supported by the candidate. He came out of this office and he wrote it like that. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, it's supposed to be a social security guarantee. This department would be covered by this minister. I just don't believe it. Employment is likely to be even worse. The only thing I believe is that I believe that maybe the Roman Catholic Church will get some kind of tolar more than ever. This continuity of work is pretty good. If we are talking about taking care of greater social dialogue in the country, probably with the solution that the Prime Minister has indicated today, this will not be possible. Because here are the social partners who are at the mercy of tolerance. Tomorrow, because of the poor work of the previous minister, a union organised fight for their rights will take place and you will see what can happen when Slovenia is in transport, economic and I do not know what kind of evidence system works very uniformly. For believe that unions are well-connected. The other thing that can happen is that all those who have been harmed in one way or another will demand their rights. And it was this very social ministry that did very little, almost nothing. Poor guy's got 40,000. 40,000 people who don't have the means to survive. While some of you are having a good chat, it would be good to hear it. Living with half a million seven hundred thousand, eight hundred thousand tolars is nice. Some get less than 50,000. And there's always more of them. Unfortunately. And that's why it's the Ministry. And when we talk about problems that also arise because some are being given priority in society. For example, we can talk about gypsies. Then you wonder why she is such a "revolt" citizen and citizens when they find that they get more than socially endangered Slovenians and Slovenes. It's the Ministry's fault. This ministry has run such a policy. With this minister, I believe nothing will get better. I said before that even if you open all the windows and doors at the Ministry and turn these rooms around and try to make the Tiny's spirit disappear, it's not going to actually happen, because this person was the right hand of the minister. Maybe I'm getting sick, I don't know, doubt or doubt that she even wanted the job so bad that today could actually be what it is. It is sad that in this choice of experts he has, I believe the government is available to choose the worst option.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u156	Thank you. My colleague Tomaž Šteba has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In accordance with Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, I will discuss this article in such a way that it will not be possible to apply it, which says that the President must give his word as soon as requested by the Member if he considers that his debate was misunderstood or misinterpreted. Now that you have not hurt me before, and in fact you have conducted a very bad meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, perhaps even because of bias. Given that I have responded to the debate of someone who is closer to you than perhaps others here in this Chamber, but I would like to point out once again that, with my debate, if I may have been misunderstood, I did not want to say in any way that women are more capable than men. Absolutely not! All I've mentioned is that the government will now have a 100% higher participation as far as women are concerned. I didn't say better or anything else, and I didn't think that at all. I also reject all those debates that speak about the fact that the candidate was not responsible for the Minister and did not adequately answer the questions when she was presented to the committee. Absolutely not! Look at the magnetogram. I went to see him now. However, the answers are short and weighty. If such opinions already fall, then they must also be demonstrated in a reasoned and very good way and weighed down, which, after the general accusation in this respect, are inadequate. I didn't think at all, and I don't think even though I have three women in my family out of four, that women are more capable than men. This would also be very inappropriate and not in accordance with the Constitution. Secondly, Mr President, I ask you to read the Rules of Procedure equally in cases of debate of all Members. You have completely violated Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure. I was mentioned as a previous debater. I was misunderstood. And you didn't give me the word I asked for right away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u158	Thank you for your substantive discussion. Once again, the Rules of Procedure shall be interpreted by the President. In a given situation, it's me. We continue the debate. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u159	I've got to get to my foreman. Mr. Steba, the Constitution does not prohibit women from being more capable than men. Practice and life also prove so many times. But today, in this brief and even succinct conversation in Parliament, it was felt that sugar was somehow spilling through these premises and that it was sweeter than all this sweetness brought by Minister Drobnič to the department of the Ministry of Labour. Of course, that is how you have praised this work so far and you are all also repeating in the coalition that you hope that this trend, which Mr Petty Officer has established, will go on. Now, of course, I ask and even have the opportunity to address the question again to Mr President of the Government: Why, then, if it was so brilliant, Mr Drobnič is now in our ranks and is no longer in the government if this work was so well designed? Why does his former right hand or left hand have to replace him? I can't tell if it was that good? Today, there should be no vote on the new Minister of Labour. Will Mrs. Cotman's working class bring him to heaven if it is obvious that Mr. Drobnic pulled him into hell and that is why he had to leave? It is also a bit of a two-faced thing that Mr Petty Officer is a hero today. Yesterday, however, he was told he was untrustworthy, of course very hazy and in unclear communication noises. Or how has this been said, Mr. Janez Janša, when you were looking for a new man for this ministry? A set of experts - 5,000 you once promised - has now narrowed down because it was clear on the "hearing" that Mrs. Cotmanov would not be as successful as you might have wanted her to be. Especially because she was quiet. It was quiet when you asked the unions and advised them to wait for a better time, Mr. Janez Janša, when they came to the street because of your government, because of your ministry and minister, and finally because of his assistant, says Mrs. Cotmanov. It was very quiet at the time when the Strategy for Raising Fertility was in place, with which it does not want to have anything today. The abortions are the matter of Mr Bručan and of the other ministry, Mrs Cotmanov, who has not made a single report today - we know that she has identified quite a few good proposals in the strategy. Today, he does not want to have anything to do with this, nor with other laws that have broken constitutionally or with those in the Constitutional Court, the Law on same-sex partnerships, which has saved Slovenia and which speaks of the registration of same-sex partnerships, is now before the Constitutional Court. Okay. We don't know what he's gonna do. But everyone's rejecting it. Nobody wants to have anything to do with them, and as a lawyer, Mrs. Cotmanov is a lawyer. But she did sign the conclusions. Let me bring you back to the story of the Civil Social Initiative of the Legibitra, which are eloquently clearly contrary to administrative procedures and not only by content but also by form. What would happen so differently if we were talking about Mr Drobnik's continuity? Only that there will be a major conflict because we will have a former minister and a minister here on the Labour Committee who will change our position on asbestos law. It cannot if it creates the continuity of the current direction of the current ministry. Will the Employment and Insurance Act be different in the event of unemployment? I don't know. I guess not. So what else will it be now that the right or left hand of the minister, who was completely silent at the time of the secretary of state? Which means that she fully agreed with one that you quickly and not even overly reasoned or quietly put off. You know you only gave him 10 minutes to defend himself here.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u160	Thank you. And the final debater, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u161	Thank you very much again for your word. At the end of the day, I will restate why the work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Minister or the Ministry of Social Policy, social protection, has been poor. Among other things, explain to those who spoke before me about the need for professional training without clienteleism. Dear colleagues and colleagues! During the two years under Mr Drobnic's ministry, he declared an educated profile of theologian as a social worker, one of the most difficult forms of disqualification of the professional work in the field of social protection and a pure ideological farce. I read the expert opinion of the Section of Social Affairs. I read on: "Uncoordinated, the proposal for a minimum wage law was poorly prepared. The State Council has spoken against such a poorly prepared law. A completely uncoordinated and poor proposal was the Act on the Coordination of Social Transfers, whereby the deprived who receive one of the approximately 30 different transfers will be coordinated in such a way that the annual savings will be up to two and a half billion Slovenian Tolars." It could still be listed in the framework of legislation. As far as inadequate funding is concerned, there has been no coordination with the institutions. However, funding for organisations involves the will of the Ministry and even a reduction of the budget without adequate justification. The proposal for a state budget for social protection is a unilateral act. I read further: 'As far as public tendering or tendering for concessions is concerned. The results of these calls can be concluded on clienteleism. In the field of employment and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities, a concession is granted to a person who publicly boasts that he plays tennis with the minister and belongs to the Minister's closest external advisors. Otherwise, concessions are to a large extent granted to religious organisations. For example, the Institute of Parish Ljubljana-Trnovo, Sv. Martina, St. George's Institute. Josepha and smaller d.o.o.s. whose founders are connected persons or owners are religious organisations." Inadequate staffing, the employment of directors of individual directorates cannot be commented on, as it is a matter of strong political recruitment and personal selection of the minister or ministry. However, it can be estimated that, with the exception of one director, none of the current directors of the Directorates at the Ministry have appropriate professional references. He has no employers' experience, only political qualifications. One such staff is also staffing in the field of guarantee and maintenance funds, respected colleagues and colleagues. And last of all, those who claim that Mrs Cotman's presentation on the working body was professional, go read the tape again if you didn't listen to the presentation yourself live. Only a fraction of her presentation, which speaks, is contrary to what you said. That is to say, contrary to her professional competence. I will quote: "I would like to stress in particular what we have already learned is that youth unemployment is on the rise. And because of the very maintenance of the pension system and because of the large number of unemployed older people, we are working to get young people to work as quickly as possible, especially as has been mentioned today, with the law on scholarships." Hello?Oh, my God! The law on scholarships will make it easier for young people to enter employment after finishing their education? It's a professional statement by a candidate for the minister. Today we have heard quite a few words about how good students will be after the new law on scholarships. Excuse me, but in two years of active cooperation within the framework of the meetings of the home labour force and the National Assembly, I have not heard one single concrete information on who will receive and what will be the scholarships from this fund or within the framework of the Act on the grant. The only thing they were going to say was that they were going to be a substitute for not working through the student service anymore. Is that really why they're going to study better?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u162	Thank you. This concludes the debate. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote at 6.20 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I also interrupt the meeting of the Assembly, which we will continue - as previously said.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u163	Dear Members and Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interruption of the 6th item of the agenda - third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Civil Society. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled by the SNS Group to Article 16. We're voting. I note that 62 Members and Members voted for 57 to 3. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We're moving on to a decision on the law. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the law would not be inconsistent. I am opening a list to declare explanations of vote on behalf of the groups before the vote. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor on behalf of the LDS delegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We will not support the law on municipal government in the LDS Parliamentary Club, because this law is not good and is primarily for local communities. We don't support a doctrine that takes the police step by step to get out of life. This time we are witnessing that the police will withdraw more than ever from the local level. There haven't been a lot of them there by now. However, this is an upgrade of the doctrine that is going this way. We do not agree with what the law also entails in terms of financial and human resources obligations. For at the withdrawal of the police, all the powers given to the local communities will bear the financial consequences of the congregation. More than 150 new editors will need to be employed. We also find this proposal difficult to understand in terms of rational action. The congregations will also have over 600 million additional costs with personnel, facilities, equipment, and training on their shoulders. We also do not agree with the obligations, the powers given to the editors by the directors. For they are not in proportion to what they would expect, according to what means they were given. With dispensers and binders, editors will not be able to regulate matters both in the field of public order and peace and in particular in the field of traffic regulation. For it is necessary to say that after that the directors will also be responsible for traffic within settlements and on all local roads. This responsibility, given to the editors, and indirectly to the mayor or the mayor as the appellate body, will bring a series of unequivocally strange situations. The mayor will decide whether the warden acted properly or not. These powers have been exercised by the police so far. The police have a built-in system on how the appeal is handled. The mayor will be left alone to decide whether or not the warden has overstepped his authority. Such services, if I may say so, are certainly not desirable to the congregations. In this context, the law represents a major step backwards in further promoting security at the local level. That's why we won't support him at the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As I said in the introduction to the presentation of the Group's positions, the Social Democrats' Group will vote to come to this law. Against a law full of ambiguity. Against the law, which brings the responsibility for ensuring public order and peace from the country to the mayor and thus to the saints of the local community. Against the law, which will allow the police to withdraw from the area that is still to be covered and regulated at the moment, and this empty space is filled by officials, editors who are not nearly as qualified or trained at the moment, such as police officers. We also estimate that we are now going from one extreme to another extreme. Now the clerks have almost no authority. This law and the laws previously adopted give them additional powers. But the powers that go beyond these reasonable frameworks that we think would still be acceptable. The editors will be able to carry out a security review of the person following this new law. They'll be able to impound the case. They will be able to contain the perpetrator of the offence and the crime and will be able to use the physical force, the means of locking and tying, and this gas dispenser, which is already in dispute in itself. Already in the use of those who are expertly qualified to do so. We can't help but agree to a solution in the law, which provides that the editors can or will have to keep the perpetrator of the crime and the person caught in the crime. And when they hold him, they'll have to wait an hour for the police, for the police. If a police officer doesn't come to a place where they're holding, holding, or having a prisoner tied or locked up, they'll have to release it after an hour. We can only imagine what this will mean when it actually does. We have tabled amendments to Article 20 with the desire to improve the law. Only a little of this was accepted. Both at home and at the National Assembly. Therefore, given that we have not been able to improve this law, we will vote against the Law on municipal registries by Members and Members of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u168	Thank you very much. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the law because we believe that the law solves certain problems that have arisen in the performance of the tasks of the directorate. At least in those congregations where they had already engaged in editorial work and had certainly taken this into account by the lawmaker. We believe that in this whole system or in this area the most important is Articles 6, 7 which speak of a municipal security programme. It is true that it is important for the mayor to propose to the municipal council a quality and in that environment a suitable municipal security programme, which will not only define or divide the work of the municipal authorities, on the other hand, the work of the police, but will also connect one job and another, in particular in terms of cooperation. We believe that this is one step forward from the point of view of ensuring the so-called order and for citizens and citizens ensuring security in individual local communities. That's why we're going to support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. The vote was 45 to 30. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of agenda 11 - consideration of the proposal for a Resolution on a national road safety programme for the period 2007 to 2011, "Common for greater safety". We are moving on to a resolution decision. At the same time, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service have not informed me that the resolution would not be harmonised due to the domestic working body of the amendments adopted. We vote on the resolution. 76 Members and Members are present. He voted 72 against no one. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda - the question of Members and Members. In line with the proposal by Ambassador Lovtijar Bebler, the Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: At its next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question by Dara Lavtišar Bebler on the envisaged measures for the establishment of the rule of law. Check-in is on. On behalf of the delegation? Mrs Darja Lavtijar Bebler, you have the floor on behalf of the LDS delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u170	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I addressed the question to the President of the Government: Will the Government take any measures and, if so, which to stop the further dismantling of the rule of law and to establish a rule of law country in accordance with European standards? The Prime Minister says there is no further dismantling of the rule of law. So there's no action either. But if there are problems already - most of them are imaginary - it is the legacy of the previous LDS governments. All that is bad or problematic is the legacy of the former authorities. All that is good is due to the present power. For example, stable and relatively high economic growth, so far relatively healthy public finances, meeting the criteria for introducing the euro is also clearly only due to the current government and so on. But colleagues and colleagues, with the rule of law in our country, it's very, very wrong. Many of the laws adopted by this coalition are controversial in terms of compliance with the Constitution. More and more are the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which are still pending. In our country, they revived the village guards. People on public roads stop traffic and legitimise passersby, stop and inspect police vehicles, who or what they actually transport. The Prime Minister himself is trying to discipline the Ombudsman. Are all these problems and examples merely imaginary? Come on, let us find out in the general debate in the response of the President of the Government whether these are really imaginary cases. The Prime Minister of the Government wants an active opposition to help tackle the problems relevant to Slovenia in a state-of-the-art way. The biggest opposition party is offering this. The LDS opposition Members are convinced that the exercise and respect of the rule of law is too important and indispensable for a modern democratic country as our country is supposed to be. And of course it is too important and fateful to leave this to the mercy and mercy of this ruling coalition. Together, we agree on whether and what measures are needed to resuscitate the rule of law with us. Please, colleagues and colleagues, support my proposal for a general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mirana Potrča, the Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: At its next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of Mr Miran Potrč on the list of properties. The application for parliamentary groups is pending. Mr Miran Potrč, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Whoever claims that the list of property is not of interest to citizens and citizens of Slovenia, they do not know the mood among people and do not read newspapers. Anyone who today, according to the Prime Minister's replies to the Government, still claims that the President of the Government has a uniform opinion in two different sentences and that the competent ministers have the same opinion on the issue of introducing or not introducing a higher or lower, immediate or later, a substitute or non-replacement of the tax, will not speak the truth. I read the tape myself. Each of the following sentences desavuates or changes the one mentioned earlier. I think we owe it to citizens and citizens to pour pure wine and to agree whether or not it will, under what conditions and when a property tax may be imposed in connection with the list of properties. However, it is not that the Government will be able to make an excuse for one or the other’s torn out sentences, and we will not know, but especially for citizens and citizens, what will happen. I propose that we vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The application for individual explanations is ongoing. Mr. Franz Puksich. [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. Mr. Joseph Scholch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I also apologize for reminding you that when this census was discussed, it was said that it was a matter of creating different records, not that it could be a basis for possible taxation. Various ministers, including the Prime Minister, Mr Gregor, have said that this would allow for more eloquent taxation. Of course, I think that people facing a signature need to know what this list will do. In terms of data protection, it is not possible to collect data for one purpose and to use data for the other or for the third. If this happens, we will face again one of the frauds that this coalition is so fond of serving the Slovenian people. When faced with the question of whether they may not have spoken that way once, otherwise, of course, they look down and do not want to hear about the simple qualification of this kind of doing that is a lie. This debate is also necessary in the sense of the constructive opposition, which Mr First Minister calls for, to be completed and poured with pure wine.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. Following a proposal from Mr Saš Pečet, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša to Saš Pečet's question on the Government's opinion on the position of the Strategic Council for Economic Development in the field of taxes, raising prices at the time of the transition to the euro, also in connection with investments in the local community. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. The vote was 28 to 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 19th item of the agenda - this is for consideration of the candidate's proposal for the appointment of a Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: 'For the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mrs Marjeto Cotman'. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. It was 46 votes against 26. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 26.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that Mrs Marjeta Cotman has been appointed Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. I congratulate the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on her appointment and wish her to perform her duties successfully. I ask the newly appointed Minister to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-18-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the second item of the agenda - the third consideration of the draft law on amendments and amendments to the law on referendum and on human initiative. On Thursday and Friday, 14 and 15 December 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the Assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter of the law, that, on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that there were no amendments to the draft law before the third hearing. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted, the law would not be inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Before we move to a decision, I would like to remind you that two-thirds of the representatives present are required to adopt the law in accordance with Article 90, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. It's 69 votes against 3. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 3rd item of the agenda - the third consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Industrial Property Rights Act from the Working Relationship. On Thursday 13 December 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that, due to the domestic working amendments adopted, the law would not be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. It's 70 votes against no one. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 23rd session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. One more moment, please. Ten minutes after the meeting of the National Assembly, the 17th urgent meeting of the Committee on Transport in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič, the President, is informed. Thank you so much and good night!
