ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Roberto Battelli, Stanislav Brenčič from 2 p.m. on, Dr Pavel Gantar, Franz Kangler, Anton Kokalj, Mojca Kucler Dolinar from 17 p.m., Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Aloyz Posedel, Aloyz Sok, Davorin Terčon and Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti. We invited the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovska to the 21st point, the President of the Government of Slovenia, Mr. Janez Janša, to the 1st and 19th points, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, the representative of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia to the 8th point, the group of Young Slovenia, on behalf of the five thousand voters to the 10th point, the candidate for Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr. Marjetko Cotman, to the 19th point, the candidate for the Ombudsman, Dr. Zdenko Čebašek Travnikar, to the 21st point, the representative of the Supervisory Board of the Agricultural Land and Forestry at the 16th point and the representative of the Council of the 21st agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the proposal by reference on 7 December 2006. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda, namely, the Social Democrats' Group proposes to withdraw from the agenda the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the railway law, which has been put into the urgent procedure. You have a proposal before you, and I'm asking the representative if he wants a word. Please, Mr. Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I think the National Assembly will find that there are no formal or substantive reasons to deal with this law. If we give anything to ourselves, don't mind me, it's finally also the leadership of the National Assembly, then we should find that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Transport Act cannot be dealt with by emergency procedure. In a formal sense, however, the Government refers to Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure and says that, while there could be difficult remedial consequences, it ignores the fact that these difficult remedial consequences, which it does not prove but announces, have caused itself. And in law, it's impossible, and it's also unfair, that you first create a situation that you later refer to. And the government says that one directive should enter into force by the end of 2005 and the other in April 2006 and because these two directives have already expired, this is now the reason for the urgent procedure. This is impossible, unfair, legally unacceptable. Of course, much worse than this is the fact that the whole law is being amended in addition to the law on the transformation and privatisation of railways, that the amendment of the law partially repeals the Law on the Business Rehabilitation of Holding, that the proposed law changes decisions on the organisation of the railway were taken at the referendum in order to significantly interfere with one fundamental decision, the deconcentration of the performance of various functions throughout the country, and that an important part of the powers that Maribor has had in the field of railways so far with the establishment of the Railway Agency, not to mention that the Government has been preparing this reorganisation through its group for almost two years, but that the Council should decide on such a sound decision in a good week. I ask you to seriously consider whether it is possible to take the responsibility of the National Assembly to take such a decision, especially because it is an institution that will make a substantial contribution in the coming years to regulating railway infrastructure through the investments needed, and I propose that you support our proposal and that this law be discussed at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u3	Thank you very much. There is no government representative to give him the floor, so I ask if anyone wants to explain his voice or to give his opinion on behalf of the groups. Please, Mr. Milan Friday on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u4	Thank you, Vice President. So, as it is said, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members, we join the proposal of the Social Democrats to withdraw the 7th item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a railway law. In fact, we justify it in the same way as the Social Democrats have already said. This law has been in preparation for two years. So half the term of office was needed by the Government to put into the procedure a law prepared by the so-called expert group, for which no one knows who composed it, what names were in it, and now the Government wants us to take such important decisions within ten days of the law going into procedure, which systematically affect the organisation of the system of the Slovenian Railways, affect the organisation and re-centralise the area that has been transposed into Maribor by the previous law. So this procedure is undemocratic, denies the role of the National Assembly as the highest legislative body, as it only causes the mother's working body to consider the law on Monday night and we have to deal with it the next day, on Tuesday morning, at the National Assembly. So we are cutting ourselves a branch that we want to show the public on several occasions, how important we are, how democratic we are. In this case, then, we deny it to ourselves. One of the elements, as I said, of our rejection is the re-enactment of the government's centralisation of Slovenia. The already established and already functioning institutions, which were once transferred to the subcenter, second centre of Slovenia, so this centre does not want to recognise competence, returns to Ljubljana, of course, we are talking about a direction which, under the auspices of the Ministry, carries out the tasks of the Investment Management Directorate. Therefore, the LDS Members want to participate actively in the drafting and consideration of the law, offer the Parliamentary of the coalition a hand, offer the Government to support our efforts, our desire to cooperate, and we can only do so by withdrawing the law from the agenda, re-entering the Government into a normal procedure in which, in the first general discussion, if not already in the public debate, we make comments on the important law as the Rail Transport Act is. So, once again, we support the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u5	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janc will present his position. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u6	Thank you, Prime Minister and Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we oppose the withdrawal of this agenda item for various reasons. I'll figure it out. For the first time since this law has been in preparation for a long time, it has been coordinated as far as possible, that is more than a year ago, that is the first reason. Another reason is that on Monday we have a call by the Transport Committee, where this matter will be dealt with together with representatives of the Government, interested representatives of the Agency and Members. Unless there is some agreement on this committee suitable for continuation, the matter will automatically stop and not come to the meeting of the National Assembly. And what would we do now and then wait until Monday on the Transport Committee and then find out that it's a matter of "game through". I believe that different opinions are both in position and in the opposition, as well as in the coalition, I believe that there will be an interesting debate on the Transport Committee, that they will give certain explanations probably by the Minister, the Government and so on. In short, I think we'd be getting ahead of ourselves on the right if we pulled out now. However, if the matter is not prepared properly as we would like in the coalition and probably also in the opposition, then things will simply be on the agenda. That is why I think this overtaking is inappropriate and we will be against this departure point from the agenda of today's regular session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u7	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. They're very happy to support you. The decentralisation of the state is, if you read the coalition contract, all those who signed it are the foundation of this coalition contract, and you're doing this law by actually violating the coalition contract, you want to centralize the institutions at the very centre. And another reason - in addition to the fact that you have proposed the law by emergency procedure, which I find completely pointless - is that the law itself dictates that this national assembly, in the form we have received, requires the rebalancing of the state budget. And I think that the laws that require any financial requirement from the State have any financial implications for the state budget should not be dealt with in accordance with the urgent procedure. In this country, there is no burning in this area. No life is at risk. Read when it is called or when it is proposed by emergency procedure! You called for Monday afternoon, Tuesday the law should be discussed, the law that takes the last state institution in Maribor should be discussed a day later. I am very interested in the fact that a large number of Members come from this beautiful side of the Trojans, how you will then vote and how you will apologize to your electorates and voters. Another issue is why you simply do not accept the fact that the law is being dealt with at a January session with the participation of the coalition or opposition, I apologize. I don't think that's too bad. The opposition must cooperate because this is the foundation, I'll say, of every democracy. Someone mentioned that the marriage was long under consideration. Yeah, maybe. In the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. As an opposition Member alone, I no longer have any influence on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in order to participate in government proposals. Therefore, I think it makes perfect sense for such a law to be withdrawn from the agenda and to be discussed in January, perhaps in February. Don't burn the water. It's not that bad. But for decentralisation, as much as you have the courage, maybe a few years later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u9	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, the representative of the proposers has the right to further explain the proposal. Please, Mr. Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I believe that we all note that, apart from the support of the proposal by the proposers for the inclusion of this item on the agenda and their advocates, one sentence and one word have not been made to justify that point remaining on the agenda. The fact given by Mr Janc also does not support this. Because since 18 February, which I have also pointed out, is an expert group in the government [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u11	Please calm down!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u12	A thorough examination of the issues of the law and its amendment does not mean that there is a valid reason why we in the National Assembly, which has a formal responsibility to adopt the law, should decide this in a week or a few days. [[...]] This is a degradation of the National Assembly and a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I understand that you want Members and Members of the Coalition to destroy the value of this National Assembly in such an important law as the Slovenian Railways Organization, also because of the investments it will make, and I hope that they will carry out in the future for the benefit of this Slovenia, in all the problems we face in the Slovenian Railways, which we have repeatedly warned us that this will be decided by itself. It is only then, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, that you accept this decision as your own responsibility. And swallow all the words you've spoken so far about the referendum, about human will, about democracy and the like. It just doesn't work. And there's no conjecture on the part of the opposition. This time when he suggests that when he begs that we give the content of such important solutions to be dealt with in some normal, peaceful process and that nothing will happen, no evidence has been given, if this is postponed from December to January. What's gonna happen? Did you say? You don't know what's gonna happen. However, if anything were to happen, it was again only the government's fault, which in time was unable to implement the two directives, which it long ago knew would fall, one at the end of the previous year and one at the end of April this year. And you can't even say that. What will happen on the committee - perhaps, let us be honest, our experience, we know what is on the committee: the coalition must vote as the Government requires, and the coalition will vote as the Government requires and it can have this right, only then say that this National Assembly is only for the coalition when the government so decides, and that it is not prepared to accept any serious concern that some things are such as to require wider treatment and, if possible, also the participation of the opposition. I seriously suggest that you reconsider before the vote and support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u13	Thank you very much. You're sorry, mag. Genidaršič, missed the opportunity, I called earlier, so I apologize, but we continue and conclude the debate on the withdrawal proposal. Please verify the functioning of the voting apparatus before the vote. There are no individual explanations of vote, except on a procedural basis. Mr. Juban, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Chairman. My procedural proposal is that we allow a representative of the government or the ministry to make his point. I hereby base the proposal on the following. Yesterday we met informally at the Ministry of Transport, where the representative of the People's Party, Franz Kangler, opened a debate on this procedural proposal of the Slovenian Democrats for the withdrawal of the item from the agenda - I apologize, this error happens several times - and the discussion that took place yesterday on the proposal of the representative of the People's Party, I repeat, has been going on in this direction that the Ministry is also thinking about supporting the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. The reasons are sufficient and great, and the President of the Committee, Franz Kangler himself, I note that the representatives of the Ministry agreed that, given the time constraints, there is no other possibility for the meeting to be convened Monday night, that is to say, the meeting of the committee and the question of how the expert services will prepare a report on this meeting, what this meeting will look like, and that the next day we will consider a point that is not feasible. Not to mention the substantive reasons where one and the other find that it is necessary to finalize, amend and cannot be completed in a qualitative manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you very much. You know Mr Juban's proposal under the rules of procedure is not possible, but in practice we have already given a chance to a representative of the Government if no one has objected. I ask, does anyone object to Mr. Juban's proposal? Thank you very much. I can see no one. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Dr. Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Dear Members and honourable Members! At its 98th regular session, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia set out the text of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on rail transport and proposed to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on rail transport should be considered by emergency procedure, as there could be difficult remedial consequences for the State. You know that the non-implementation of European directives into the Slovenian legal order has already become a necessity for the European Commission to refer the country to the European Court of Justice. The proposal for a text has been completed, is in line with the European legal order, so I propose that you do not support this withdrawal and that the procedure continues following the urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakl, another procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I think it is just said by the Secretary of State that there is a great surprise for the National Assembly. In this National Assembly, in the past, we were informed of exactly the opposite of some important documents for 2007, 2008. In its opinion on the amendment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u19	Mr. Squeakl, this is not a debate, a proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u20	I'll tell you right away.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u21	You're running out of time for a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u22	My procedural proposal is that what Mr State Secretary has said is countered by the opinion here of Mr Bayuk, the absent Minister for Finance, who, at the time of the state budget, when we proposed to add funds to the railway programme, argued that this could not be done in accordance with the European directives and that there was no need to support the opposition's amendment. And today, less than a month after we adopted the state budget, we have a second opinion from the Government. It is necessary to adopt legislation in accordance with the urgent procedure that will provide in the 2007 budget the additional billions that we have proposed with amendments. Please, Vlada, make up your mind. What is monitoring European directives for you? What was the Government's opinion, the written opinion presented by the Minister of Finance less than a month ago, or what Mr Secretary of State is saying here. And my procedural proposal is that, at least what we need, we need the opinion of the Minister of Finance or the withdrawal of some of the decisions already taken by this National Assembly, when we have done exactly the opposite of what Mr State Secretary now proposes - the adoption of the law by emergency procedure and the necessary balance for 2007.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We heard the proposal, it's also recorded on the tape. Now I am finalising the debate. And we are moving on to a decision on the withdrawal of that point. Please check the operation of the famous orange light. We're voting. Thank you very much. There are 67 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 35. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 35.]] It means that the proposal is not adopted. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. Can I have your attention, please? Don't make me quit my session at the beginning because of the riot in the hall. One last warning. Thank you. We vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 16. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the agenda of the 23rd meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANOTHER REFERENCE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE REFERENCE AND HUMAN INITIATION LAW. EPA 1091-IV. We have three hours and 17 minutes to discuss. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give my word to the Minister, Dr. Virant, who I also welcome in our midst.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u24	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u25	I ask you to calm down again before the Minister speaks and continue your lively debate outside this room.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u26	Dear Members and Members! Nicely greeted. First of all, I'm going to raise my speaker's desk a little bit to ensure an appropriate high level of debate. I will begin by answering the question of what is not in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. For what is not is probably one of the central issues of this law. In March this year, the time limit set out in the Constitutional Court decision repealing the so-called previous referendum. The debate on this amendment of the referendum law also raised the question of whether we are returning the previous referendum to our system or perhaps replacing it with another form, a related form of referendum, in particular the Swiss-type referendum, the so-called Swiss-type legislative referendum. In order to resolve the two-thirds support in the National Assembly, we have not found or better said, the coalition on this issue has not been unified, so the law only provides for a subsequent legislative referendum. So there will be no previous referendum in Slovenia, and I am therefore confident that we will be fewer referendums in Slovenia than we have been trained to date. In fact, if we look at statistics, most of the referendums so far have been preliminary. Referendum on the return on investments in the Telecommunication Network, referendum on TET3, railways, Sunday operating time and electoral system. As a rule, the previous referendums have caused practical problems; the referendum on Sunday's operating time has actually created a real circus; they could be talking about a comedy of confusion. So there will be no previous referendums. And once again, the result will be that Slovenians will be making fewer decisions at referendums than ever before. Now, something about what's in the marriage, which is what the Amendments to the Referendum Law brings. It brings about a change that ensures greater seriousness of the referendum initiatives, with the number of signatures required under the initiative, which initiates the collection of 40,000 signatures, rising from 1,000 to 2,500. The initial government proposal was 5,000, but later in coordination - including with opposition parties - the Social Democrats found a compromise solution - raised it to 2,500. While this rise is not drastic, it certainly affects the increasing seriousness of the referendum initiatives. Of course, the main purpose is to prevent unserious initiatives from intruding the stick into the legislative cycle and hindering the work of the National Assembly. The second important amendment concerns the possibility of a so-called referendum day. So, on the possibility of setting a date for the referendum, voting in the referendum by combining it with another referendum or with the elections. We have found, again, that in coordinating this law with the opposition parties, that such an instrument, the possibility of postponement of a referendum for one year, which would only be in the hands of the majority in Parliament, could cause abuse and manipulation, and that it is therefore right to make such a decision with a broad consensus, that is with a two-thirds majority of the votes cast. What's that supposed to do? It allows rationalization. It allows for, in certain cases, that we will have two referendum votes instead of two referendum votes or instead of elections and a referendum vote, each individually, both together. Any such move, any such decision means saving tax money of about 700 million. Of course, a two-thirds majority is not easy to achieve, so it is unlikely that this will happen often, but it is enough to take advantage of this opportunity once and we have achieved our purpose and the effect that we are pursuing. The law also provides de-barbarcation or more favourable arrangements for the electorate to collect signatures in support of the referendum. I'm talking about collecting 40,000 signatures. This could also be put in the context of removing administrative barriers, which is why we are working intensively. Signatures can be collected every business day, not just during official hours. So, every day from Monday to Friday, if we open on Saturdays, of course, even that day. It also facilitates the transmission of signatures to those who cannot physically report to the administrative unit because of the disease, because the hospital is either abroad or similar, and also allows the collection of signatures in electronic form. So collecting electronic signatures. We have been very busy with this, asking ourselves whether there is any obstacle or any argument against this option, given that technology allows us to have already a very large number of Slovenian citizens with a digital certificate certificate, a certificate, and we have found that in fact the only argument against this inhibition of signature collection would be that. That wouldn't be a legitimate argument. That's why we introduced this option. So it's possible to collect signatures in electronic form. Abuse is practically excluded; signatures shall be certified by a qualified digital certificate of any authorised issuer. The change is also to solve the hypothetical situation that can arise if neither "pro" nor "against" receive the majority of all votes cast or all those who voted. This situation is possible. At the referendum on the RTV Slovenia Act, this situation was almost there. For a while the results were both "for" and "against" below 50% and, of course, in such a case, if it had happened, a great battle for interpretation would have been waged, who, what, in this case, would have won. We are now removing this dilemma because the votes in force are taken into account. These, however, are increasingly more than 50% on one side or on the other, except in a so-called science fictional case, that the number of votes would be completely equal, identical. The law also regulates the referendum on international relations, which the Constitution has provided for, and has not yet been legally enforced, aligns the law with the decisions of the Constitutional Court and further regulates the control of the referendum issue. This, however, is much simpler in the subsequent referendum, for the question here is very one-off: Are you in favour of the marriage to come into force? So not all of those substantive dilemmas and concerns or questions arising from the previous referendum. So much for the intro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For this reason, I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to fellow Members, fellow Members and Minister Virant! At its 27th meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. Members and members of the committee discussed the proposal for a law, and before that, the representative of the proposer, the Minister of Public Administration, provided an additional explanation for the draft law and explained and explained the reasons for the necessary changes. Representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service said that they had mainly taken into account the comments made in their written opinion and had been submitted in the form of amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups, and they highlighted in particular the meagre relationship with regard to the powers to decide on the President of the National Assembly, as well as the provision of Article 32, which was a particular problem with the question of the quorum regarding participation in the referendum. The draft law was put forward by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, which concludes that the State Council supports the proposal of the law. Members and members of the Committee supported the proposed amendments and amendments to the law in the majority debate, including the debate on the so-called Swiss part of the referendum and its possible introduction. However, some members felt that there was no reason for the voter's new initiative to collect signatures to be supported by 2,500 voters, as well as that they felt it would be better for the referendum to be scheduled on a certain date. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups were tabled and adopted, and the Committee, as its own, also adopted the amendment to Article 32. Finally, all the articles of the law were adopted together and proposed by the committee as such also for adoption by this respected assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first one has the word Mr Potz on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Virant, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President! In the Social Democrats Group, we believe that the referendum is such an important institution for direct decision-making that it is good and right, on the basis of the decision of the Constitutional Court, which has abolished the previous legislative referendum, to take decisions as soon as possible, which will indisputably show how, in what cases, this important aspect of human democracy and the direct cooperation of citizens and citizens in power can be enforced. That is why we have been thoroughly involved in the preparation of this law, given the opportunity to do so by the Government or Minister Virant, who was aware of the two-thirds decision and the need to reach a fundamental consensus in the preparatory stages, not only in the short procedures we have in the National Assembly. On the part of the Social Democrats' Group, this fundamental consensus has been reached and we believe that the proposed content of the law includes the minimum that is sufficient for its adoption. This does not mean that we are fully satisfied with it, but the minimum is achieved. We agree that there is no longer a previous legislative referendum, since we have always pointed out that, in relation to the previous legislative referendum, it is also the most difficult, the most vague and the most likely, that it may also be abused against the exercise of the normal legislative role and functions of the National Assembly, since it can only be proposed so that no signatures can be collected, but that the procedure itself in the National Assembly should be postponed for a few months. Whenever we discussed this, the current coalition felt that any action in the Referendum Act was undemocratic, we are pleased that now, as a coalition, it has found that this is not entirely so and that some corrections are useful. Second. While we would like to see that, as Mr Minister also initially said, instead of the legislative referendum, the system of so-called adoption of the law based on the people's initiative has been put in place, so far there has not been a willingness to do so, there may still be some open options on the parent's working body, but I would say only three sentences about it because of this work being a big "fama" that it is something terrible, but it is actually very close to what we already have. At this meeting of the National Assembly - I think, for the second or third time in this term - we will consider the law drawn up by citizens and citizens with over 5,000 signatures. That would be the first phase if we were to take a human initiative. But the second phase would be if the National Assembly - which may happen in the Kindergarten Act, which we will consider this time - refused to proceed with the procedure and the adoption, then 40,000 voters and voters could be gathered and they would say, "No, we are proposing that this law, which was rejected by the National Assembly, would go to a referendum." And that would simplify the whole art of this new solution to the human initiative that you think this moment in the coalition is so impossible and terrible. Since you add to the fact that in this case the National Assembly could also form its own law, it is only a supplement that could or could not be, and in this case would have a referendum in two laws. Still, the solutions in this marriage are good. Above all, it is good that we have the opportunity to work together with the coalition and the opposition to agree to hold several referendums on a one-day basis. Above all, it is possible to facilitate the collection of signatures, to make it more public how administrative units must operate in the collection of regulations and, above all, it is good that it is clear that at a time when people are not present, these are Christmas and New Year's holidays and holidays over the year, in these days they cannot express the deadlines for collecting signatures, which they would not be able to collect at that time. The content, as it is prepared, allows us to support it in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I once again invite Mrs Kucler Dolinar to present the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u32	Nice greeting again, this time on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. In the New Slovenia Group, when adopting amendments to this law, we have in particular the fact that the referendum is a direct form of decision-making of citizens on an important issue, so it is necessary to avoid manipulation of the referendum and, above all, to avoid the possible sense of deprivation of this right, to clearly define the conditions for the use of the referendum. Thus, changes are necessary because of the need for a more precise and precise regime of the referendum amending the Constitution and certain other provisions which allow or could allow for some abuse of the referendum and the irrational conduct and unnecessary obstruction of the legislative procedure. The proposed regulation maintains the current regime under which the institute of the subsequent legislative referendum is in place in our country. In the parliamentary group, we think it is appropriate to make a change that ensures that the referendum initiatives and demands are somehow more serious, as the voter's initiative to collect signatures will, according to the new one, have to be supported by the signatures of 2,500 voters, so far being the number of 1,000 voters. However, the law somehow facilitates the collection of signatures by providing support for the request for a referendum with a secure electronic signature. We had certain concerns about the initial proposals regarding the introduction of a single referendum day, if it were already fixed in law, because this consideration or decision on a particular issue could be too far away from the day it would occur. Therefore, it seems appropriate to us that the last proposed solution is to set a referendum day, a single referendum day, here in the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority. We also support the proposed solutions on better legal protection for investors of the initiative and the legislative referendum requirement, on the confidentiality of data on the signatories to the referendum initiative, on the possibility of persons who, due to illness, disability, the suspension of prison sentences or other similar forms of restraint, cannot personally express support to the administrative authority for the referendum request, as well as on the possibility of persons being given to them who, at the time of collecting signatures in support of the referendum request abroad, can also express their support from there. Indeed, we have looked somewhat withheld at the exposed position, which has already been mentioned today, in relation to the so-called Swiss type of referendum; therefore, with regard to the issue of an absolute mandatory referendum, which would mean that citizens would still be fully directly carrying out the legislative function, but the role of the representative body, that is to say Parliament, would be lost to some extent. Such a referendum could represent more than some negation of the representative system, so it is not a common practice in Europe and in the world and it is prescribed only exceptionally by the constitutions. As already mentioned, the constitutions of some Swiss cantons have it. We therefore believe that we should consider carefully the possible introduction of a similar type of referendum. Above all, it is the view of the Group that, in the framework of the known procedures that we have had in our country, we are trying to improve the process so that there is no issue and that we can find solutions that we can be more confident that are appropriate. For even after the debate on the referendum in Switzerland is followed, they do not give the most appropriate picture. The changes to the law we have on the table today will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Preseknik will speak on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The referendum is an important form of direct democracy, which has been used several times during the period of independent Slovenia to regulate various legal materials, especially when Slovenia joins NATO and the European Union. The Law on Referendum and Human Initiative was adopted in 2004. A more important change in the field of referendum and human initiative took place on 11 March of the year when the suspension deadline of the Constitutional Court expired, to which the National Assembly could regulate a preliminary legislative referendum in accordance with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court found that the law on the referendum in the work relating to the previous legislative referendum contained inconsistent provisions and non-constitutional legal voids. With regard to these shortcomings, a time limit for rectification has been set and the National Assembly has not adopted any clearer provisions regarding the previous legislative referendum. As a result, the institute was also abolished on 11 March of the year. The key objective of the examination of the amendment is therefore to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision in particular. The proposal follows the solution to retain only the subsequent legislative referendum, as is known by most Member States of the European Union. We support such arrangements in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Many of the complications and questions raised during the transitional legislative referendums are known. In our view, the subsequent legislative referendum provides citizens and citizens with sufficient opportunity to carry out direct democracy. An additional positive change is brought about by a more clear and definitively defined institute of the subsequent legislative referendum. The procedures taken by the electorate's initiative are very clearly defined and resolve the doubts which have certainly existed in the current regime. With regard to the referendum, the number of signatures required to support the referendum invitation initiative is increasing. We support this increase of 1000 to 2500 in the parliamentary group because we believe that 2,500 is a suitable number, especially given the number of signatures to be collected for the referendum itself. In our view, this increase will contribute mainly to reducing abuses in terms of unnecessary obstruction of the legislative process. The proposal also regulates the special form of the referendum introduced into our constitutional system by the adoption of a new 3a. Articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This arrangement is, of course, necessary. With regard to the so-called referendum day, we believe that the proposed solution is good and prevents the abuse of the proposed referendum day. At the time of drafting the proposal, it was a fundamental fear that the referendum day would be misused in terms of needless delaying the decision on the referendum issue if it were in the interest of individual political options. 2/3 of the majority of Members present are required to call for a referendum if, from the date of the call to the day of the vote, more than 45 days have elapsed, there is sufficient guarantee to prevent any abuse. The proposed law also introduces some other amendments that improve the legal text, particularly in terms of greater transparency and clarity. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed law, and we will also support the coalition amendment, which relates to the comments of the Legislative Service of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Zagorac has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! 3. Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenia is a country of all its citizens and citizens based on the permanent and inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination. Article 2 discusses how they can exercise this inalienable right. I must say that after all that has been heard so far, our respected colleagues are the only ones in the Slovenian National Party who will oppose the introduction or enforcement of this law. For that, I think we have quite a weighty reason. The first thing the law introduces is not to say that there is no need to change the law; especially in the direction where the law provides for easier implementation of the referendum and adapts to the time and modernisation of the individual country. But there's one thing I can't escape. All of you here will agree that the referendum is the highest form of democracy, the highest form in addition to the elections that people can decide on something that they agree with what we are doing here, and that we do not agree on. And the first change, which is somehow going to be in the eyes, is a change in the number of signatures needed for the proposal after the individual referendum. This increase from 1000 to 2500 seems to me like the government would like to protect itself at one point and say, as few referendums as possible we will have, it will be better for this country, but it also seems to me that it is such a beautiful correction that we have made so that we can talk about it. I believe that no referendum has made sense in this country so far. Everyone had a purpose, everyone had a purpose, both those referendums that we proposed as the opposition, along with you, who are today a coalition, in the previous term, as well as the referendums that the current opposition is proposing against the laws proposed by the current coalition. That's why I believe there will be no one in this room who will say that any referendum was pointless. It also seems to me that if one group of people is well organized, it can collect as many as 1,000 or 2,000 signatures or 2,500. If the government really wanted to protect itself, it would raise this threshold to 10,000, 15 thousand, because it seems to me that it was the government's intention to raise signatures and reduce the referendum. As for the speech about the introduction of this law, at least in the presentation of the law and through the media, we have been able to read that it is a kind of rationalisation. We can imagine rationalisation through two aspects, according to our belief. The first aspect is finance, because we know that each referendum costs so much and so many millions and facilitates procedures. Now, in order to talk about what kind of facilitation of procedures, in order for a referendum to take place, it seems to me that we cannot talk in this law. And I believe that you will all agree with me here. In order to reduce finances, to rationalise the costs of implementing the referendum, but also not, especially because I feel that the introduction of the referendum day would be the one that would lead to a reduction of costs, because two, three referendums could take place together with the elections and then rationalisation or reduction of funds would be understandable. But, no, this government suggests that the National Assembly can - and all of us who have ever passed any law school know that there is a significant difference between "may" and "mora". And since this Government, at least after practice, has not been able to provide a common majority sometimes for any kind of law, I fear that this referendum day too does not take seriously and we cannot talk about rationalisation and perhaps a little more in dealing with amendments, but just a word about it, you know, during rationalisation and democracy, that when we talk about a referendum, it can be a very thin border, really a very thin border. Or it also means rationalisation to increase democracy when we raise the number of signatures we need, and let each one ask for it. We will not support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. And I want to say hello to everyone! With regard to the amendment of the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, a large degree of consensus is needed first and secondly, it seems that it has also been achieved in previous procedures. At least this is how all the performances so far show, and the fact that perhaps some of the groups will not support it, is certainly not gnawing at this basic harmonised position. Of course, the acceptability of the proposed law for the various parliamentary groups or parties was probably different, first in the preparation of these differences, and now there are some differences. But there is no doubt that this is one of the mechanisms of democracy. In other words, we all refer very often to democracy, to democracy, to democracy, and I am not always sure that we are all aware that models, types, forms of democracy can be very different, and that even within democratic aspirations for democratic regulation there have been many things going on, which were contrary to human rights, freedoms and so on. So the apology itself of abstract form of democracy will not suffice. One of the attempts to ensure the greatest possible impact of people, the political will of people in the highest possible number, is, of course, a referendum, which again raises the question whether it is true that the referendum is the highest possible form of democracy. Even if we looked back on our own practice, we would see that this was not the case for many people. Surely, however, at least one of the fundamental differences in the drafting process so far was the difference between assessing the need for a previous referendum or the necessity and the possibility of introducing a Swiss-Babaric model of referendum. In the DeSUS Group, we supported the drafting of this amendment of the law all the time, in a version without a previous referendum. Our experience - whether it is 5 of those referendums that were previous or those three that were subsequent - is such that we must probably think about them. Not everyone was so happy or so happy with all these referendums, nor was the solution. Later, with other decisions - and on Monday or Tuesday, we will, it appears, with regard to railways - find that, in fact, the decisions at the referendum are not always the ones that are the happiest or the most true solutions. In the DeSUS Group of Members, we are not the most excited about keeping the previous referendum on the grounds that we consider that the debate: professional, reasoned, with the presence of the professional public must run here, in Parliament, in parliamentary premises with direct confrontation, argumentation and change when something needs to be changed. That is why we are not most excited about the previous referendum because in a way, conditionally speaking, it unties us from responsibility. However, I think it is right that we take full responsibility for our decisions and that later, if decisions were not good, the will of the people would sanction our possible wrong or poorly offered solutions. Other important areas are areas that address some of the shortcomings that have been observed so far, but which, in my judgment, are not entirely without weaknesses without weak points. For example, voting within 30 days to 1 year. Of course, it does not matter whether it is voted when the matter is most present, or when it is still partially removed, when things are blurring away, and when the focus of our attention is focused elsewhere. As for more referendums at the same time or at the same time as the referendum and elections, it can sometimes be problematic. How - let's say - an individual partial interest that we are dealing with through the referendum cannot be further defined when the elections are held at the same time. But this can have an important impact on the voter's other will. Later we will see in the implementation of these referendums whether all the solutions were good and happy. The main solutions proposed are: [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u39	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u40	that the DeSUS Group supports them together with the amendment to Article 32. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u41	Thank you. The word has magic. Grims on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u42	Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! All good greetings on behalf of the SDS. Surely no party in Slovenia is so aware of the importance of the referendum, direct decision-making of the highest sovereign, i.e. the people, as the SDS. The direct decision of the people is linked to all of our history. From the fact that our young man was the first to propose once the people's decision on Slovenia's independence to referendums, which everyone remembers very well and have marked Slovenia's political space as the key. For example, before the 2004 elections, this was certainly a referendum concerning so-called deleted persons. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia gives this particular meaning. Thus, the fathers of the Slovenian Constitution were aware of this and was not that article relevant, which had been quoted earlier. Relevant is the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is crystal clear: In Slovenia, the people have authority. It's being implemented directly. And then it puts directly into second place the realization, of course, by the principle of the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial. Today, we will be deciding on a law that essentially constitutes a regulation of the rule of law in accordance with a constitutional decision that has made a significant impact on the democratic standards of this country. Indeed, the constitutional decision of the Constitutional Court in practice means the abolition of the previous legislative referendum, and this is not the case now in this proposal. The proposal, as it is, is of course a compromise. As such, we accept him and when we support him in the SDS. In doing so, however, we would like to draw very clearly the attention of one problem that some avoid, but in our view it is crucial. Indeed, this decision of the Constitutional Court has led to a slight reduction in the democratic standards already achieved in this country. Let me put it the simplest way. A law that is not voted by a majority in Parliament, any majority already, after the current regulation because of this decision of the Constitutional Court can no longer come to a decision. He can't even come to the referendum anymore. And that is why we have suggested that this should somehow be arranged differently. And we have proposed a Swiss model and we sincerely regret that it was not possible to find enough consent to do so. We'd do two with that. For the first time, we would avoid this Slovenian version of the previous legislative referendum, which probably does not require much mourning as a form. On the other hand, we would open this democratic space so that the people, as the supreme sovereign, could actually decide on all matters within the framework of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This would avoid another trap, which was already quite noticeable in the discussions of some colleagues when they represented the views of their respective groups. Indeed, the referendum today is widely understood or understood by many, especially as a weapon in the process. This is said to be, as someone - according to the local word - kajlo, which could have been killed and, of course, is still being given. It will only be a little harder to kill in the legislative cycle when the process of adopting a law in the National Assembly is under way. That's why he's trying to compensate in other ways. By lifting, for example, the number of signatures needed, and by other methods used, which were and are still in law. All of this would be avoided by the Swiss model, because, as has already been presented, it would mean that it will be decided first by the National Assembly, if the law given by the people's initiative is adopted, there is no problem at all. But if not, he also has the opportunity to offer his own salvation, and then he decides the people, and his decision is final. And we firmly believe in the SDS that it would be. We certainly leave this topic open in this way, and we hope that in the future, if not sooner, a sufficient degree of consensus can be gathered in the next term and that this step can also be taken. Today, we will, as we say, support this compromise, this proposed law. Thank you and good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u43	Thank you. And the last one has the word of Dr. Gaber on behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposed amendment of the law. Let me also join the opinion of those who say that the process of harmonisation of this proposal has been corrected and probably also the opinion of someone else that it would be wise to do so on any other occasion. The degree of agreement would be greater and the sustainability of laws would probably also be higher and legitimacy. I'm sure it wouldn't hurt anything. It seems to us - as has been pointed out here - that this law makes sense to build a system of direct democracy in Slovenia. By moving the threshold up from 1000 to 2500 signatures we increase the seriousness of the approach to the referendum. Prague, however, is not raised so that a serious initiative cannot overtake it. That we all think seriously that this should be possible, on the other hand, we prove that the time in which the signatures are collected and can be collected, both at this point and in the case of 40,000 signatures, in particular when it comes to 40,000 signatures, is determined so that referendums do not interfere at the time of the holidays and that there are also days to collect signatures according to our judgment enough. Some of the elements that are good and which are brought about by this law could still be listed. I would, however, like to say that we will support it, point out that we agree that the standard of access to direct decision-making is being reduced by this arrangement. You don't have to hide anything around this. I myself will not read the positions of the former position and the current opposition on these issues on purpose at this time. But I have them right here in front of me. What I think is important is that when we are aware of this and we are also aware that the previous referendum was not the most fortunate form of this access to the direct will of people, that it is the duty of this Parliament to take a step forward, in the direction of which Comrade Grims also spoke. In order to finally find an agreement on a real legislative referendum of the Swiss-Babaric-American type. I don't think all this stuff is up to me. This would require a serious agreement between the parties in this House. There is also a serious debate in the professional public, but in the professional public without prejudice to the referendum, without any further certainty that something like this cannot be done. This would contribute to the degree of consensual democracy in Slovenia that we need at this time, namely those in which the agreement counts, not simple voting. This would probably increase the legitimacy of democratic regulation in the long run. What else - as Churchill said - other than democratic in spite of all the weaknesses we have not yet invented in this world. So we're counting on this arrangement and this conversation to be possible. We are ready to provide our part of the vote. The three parties here have already expressed their readiness to go in this direction and, as far as I know, these three parties are getting enough votes, that this can also be accepted in accordance with the necessary two-thirds majority in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled, 13.12.2006. I am putting to the debate Article 17 and the amendment of the SNS Group of Members. I'd still like you to formally log in on the computer. And the minister, if he wants a word, with his hand. Thank you very much. The first one has the word, Mr Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! Once again, I will point out that rationalisation was also one of the basics of the proposed law before us. Earlier in the introduction, but I have run out of time, I would like to say that rationalisation and the possibility of democratic decision-making of people - in this case this limit can be very, very thin. I wonder for myself, Mr. Secretary, and you'll probably explain to me what key you've reached number 2500. What led you to say 2,500 and not 2000, 3000, 3500? It seems to me that somewhere up to 4,000 there was a reasonable limit in which I can, I'll say, people or organized groups who want, really want, or have some argument for the referendum to be carried out, are also gathering these signatures. I don't believe it if I want to, but I hope that you will also confirm my thought that the government would want to protect itself from people by making the referendum impossible. Once again, I don't believe this, because then this would be a very bad government and not a human government, it would raise this threshold somewhere high. 2000 signatures, as proposed in the Slovenian National Party, represent 10% of the people who live in the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. According to the latest data, 221 000 people live in Ljubljana. So it's, like, 10% or something. [[Excuse me, excuse me, thank you for this correction, thank you.]] 1% of the people who live in the capital. It seems to me that this is one such information that the Government could determine this number of signatures. The second thing that escapes me in the number of signatures is some kind of duality of the largest coalition party. But if there are no strange views, I will say I have a magnetogram in front of me for the 4th item of the agenda on 7 April 2004. The item had the title of Consideration of the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law when we discussed the referendum. At that time, the speaker who represented the position today of the largest coalition party said: "We strongly oppose attempts to radically limit the content of the referendum and to impose extremely difficult conditions for its success, or in any way to raise the number of signatures necessary to carry out the referendum." At the time, the applications were replaced. You sat on our side, on the opposition side, and you objected. That's what you're proposing today. That's what you're proposing today. You've lifted your signatures. I'm not saying you picked them up radically, but you picked them up. You have sharpened the conditions to which you strongly opposed two years ago. And I'm very interested in where this change came from. I believe that, as one proverb says, "times change and people change with them." It's respectable for people to adjust to time. But when it comes to a referendum as the highest form, I'm going to say, the possibility of influence or one of the highest forms of the possibility of people having an impact on life in this country, according to this policy in this country, it seems to me that there is a little bit of a double sword. This duality is what's really bugging me. Give me an answer, too; 2,000 signatures, as proposed in the Slovenian National Party, do you think these 2,000 signatures, and the distinguished Minister, who represents the Government, makes sense or why do you think 2,500 signatures are more meaningful than 2,000 signatures? Another question, because I know you still have time: Would it make more sense for you to make 3,000 signatures or 2500 signatures, or that limit that we are not going across in this country? From the beginning, I asked you where you came from, except that this coordination was because we know we need two-thirds in this National Assembly to confirm this law, is it 2,500 signatures of the fruit of alignment with what I'm going to say to most of the opposition? Or is 2,500 signatures a real threshold? Why is it necessary to have it in this country? As far as rationalisation is concerned and this amendment is concerned that this border between rationalisation and democracy is very thin, I am also interested in the parliamentary initiative of my fellow Member, Barbara Žgajner Tavš, when she proposed that the Minister be competent every year with a regulation, with any sub-legislative regulation for which the Government has jurisdiction, should introduce a referendum day. At that point, I feel like we should have had a one-day referendum in the country. However, as long as these are laws that cannot wait, which make sense that they are adopted earlier, but can be adopted in the legislative procedure in the National Assembly, this was the proposal, with a two-thirds majority of the votes, which should be tied only to the interim period until the referendum day, one other day. That was unacceptable. It seems to me that if the word rationalisation in the very explanation of the bill is covered, it seems to me, because people in this country and even though it is not, if we admit it, we consider ourselves to be a rationalisation of "sparing". So something the state will save if we do it. I see no reason to save today. You wrote the word "may" as I said in the introductions. It's hard to find a simple majority of kamoli two-thirds. I don't think there's any sense that any referendum day in this country has ever been. Perhaps I will join the debate later when I have the answers from your side and the concerns of respected colleagues in this National Assembly. Once again, why 2,500, where did you get that limit? Where did you get this limit? Where did you find him? It doesn't make any sense. The one who collects 1000 also collects 2500, as organised as 2500, does not represent any protection of the Government. What I said was that I don't believe the government wanted to protect itself. And one more thing to think about. Previous legislative referendum. You did not at times object to this when you were in opposition. And today you're kind of shutting it down because you think it's a delay in some kind of legislative process. And maybe one last thought. Consider the so-called possible implementation of the fourth legislative procedure when people disagree with what you are proposing. You have also received this initiative from the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u48	Thank you. I'll take my turn. At first you tried to argue a little awkwardly or prove the changes in the SDS position when you quoted the magnetogram from the debate on constitutional law. If I'm not mistaken, changes to the Constitution. In fact, the Constitution provides that 40,000 signatures must be collected for the invitation to tender for the referendum. And no one even thinks of changing that number. So we don't even talk about it today. As far as limitation is concerned, the content restrictions on those who may go to the referendum are precisely such thoughts. Our position was and is still today not to go, so that it is not possible to limit the content of those who could go to the referendum, but must be all topics, that is, possible themes for referendum decision-making. Unless the referendum question is unconstitutional. This was about 40,000 signatures. There's no change in attitude here. Secondly, we are not making it difficult to apply for a referendum, but we are facilitating it. When 40,000 signatures are collected, there are a number of simplifications in the law that are essential in helping to make it easier for the initiator to collect these 40,000 signatures. First, the deadline is extended from 30 to 35 days. Secondly, this period shall not be counted during the summer holidays and over the Christmas-new year holidays. Thirdly, it can be signed every day, all the time. Fourthly, it can also be signed in electronic form. These are very serious simplifications in collecting signatures. As for that signature-gathering initiation. So to even get to the point where you can start collecting 40,000 signatures, here we have put ourselves in the position that this number must be such that it prevents unrealistic initiatives. What is an unserious initiative? This is an initiative that clearly does not stand a chance of collecting 40,000 signatures. And if someone can collect 40,000 signatures in 35 days and verify them with the administrative unit, so certified signatures with the administrative unit, then I'm sure within 7 days they can collect a few thousand, that's 2,500. Even more, up to 5,000 signatures without any certification. So on the stand, on the street like that. So this number is certainly not too high and will not hold any initiative for a referendum that has any chance of collecting 40,000 signatures. I'm sure of that. Why 2,500? The government has proposed 5,000. We think 5,000 would be the right number so it wouldn't be too high. We've reached 2,500 in coordination. Of course this discussion, is it 2,500 or 2,300 or 2,600. This is like asking: Why 90 Members, why do we not have 92 or 88? But why does the Constitution say 90? Why are we here for exactly 2,500? These numbers need to be cut somewhere and a number selected. What do you mean, the border between rationalisation and the democracy of the tank? I don't understand those thoughts. Because if there's a boundary between something and something thin, it means that one quickly passes into another. Does this mean that rationalisation can go to democracy or that democracy can go to rationalisation? I wrote that thought down, but I don't know; Is it so wise that it's too wise that I don't understand it, but were you wrong to say that the thin line between rationalization and the reduction of democracy is?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u49	Thank you very much. You want a replica? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u50	Thanks again for saying that. And I will start in a row, as you have started, with a question regarding the two-year practice in this Parliament under your Government. Who would trust you when you were talking about constitutional law? It is true that today you are making it difficult for you to raise the number of signatures required for the referendum to begin in order to start collecting the signatures, these 40,000, as provided for in the Constitution. You're raising these conditions. Who says tomorrow, tomorrow, next month, you're not gonna turn yourself in to this National Assembly and look for a consensus that there will be no more 40,000, but 50,000? There's no guarantee. And you probably can't give it to me for the next two years unless you give it to me orally right now here at the meeting. As for the frivolous initiatives for the implementation of the individual referendum, I must say for myself that no initiative that has ever been given to me, and perhaps on your part, but if we remember the opening time of trade, otherwise the referendum has come to light, but we know how the story has continued, we could consider it perhaps as unrealistic for someone or seriously for someone else. It seems to me, therefore, that underestimating people in this country and saying that they are taking unrealistic initiatives for a certain referendum, for a certain criticism of a certain law, is very unreal and underestimating to those people who are trying to collect these 1,000 signatures so far, it seems to me that for a certain group of people, even if they are collecting 999 signatures, 900 signatures, or if you want 40 signatures, it seems to me that any initiative for a referendum is benevolent and perhaps worthy of the Government's opinion that one segment of people is still not covered. That's why I don't think there are any frivolous initiatives for the referendum. I agree with the part where you said that the one who will raise a thousand will also collect 3,500. But then I don't think it makes sense to lift. Why pick up if you say it yourself and evaluate the science as I do that whoever collects a thousand signatures will collect two and a half? Then why are we lifting? Let me explain why we're lifting. If I collect 1,000 and I collect two and a half, I don't see a hook. Hasek would have seen if he wanted to protect himself and would have said, but we would have set a limit somewhere very high, where none or only those of these terribly serious and organised supporters could have gathered it. According to your speech and probably also those who oppose our amendment, it seems to me that it doesn't matter whether we have a thousand, a thousand, one, two and a half, three, after you have up to five thousand signatures. But that's what everyone collects. Then why are we lifting, because it doesn't matter if it's a thousand or it's five. As I have already said on the Internal Policy Committee, it seems to me that this is such a beautiful correction or a desire to gather 2/3 in this House to get the law back. And rationalization, democracy. The thought is not blue at all. It's just so general. You might want to think a little bit about the law you're proposing, but you can get to it quickly. Maybe you didn't understand me because I said that the thin line between rationalization and democracy. It means that from rationalisation we can quickly get into another system that we have already practiced or, I will say, make the conditions of democracy more difficult, as we set them up in 1991. If we raise some signatures, and if we all agree that the referendum is one form of people's influence on the functioning of this country, then if we raise signatures, then we make the conditions of influence difficult. You'll agree here. But I don't know what we rationalized in this case. We haven't profited financially in any way if we're raising signatures. Unless the border was set so high that the referendum could not be in this country at all. Then I agree to rationalize, but we would also introduce another system. But when we're talking about the difference of 1,000 and 2,500 signatures, because you say it yourself, and you see the lesson as I do, there's no difference that any serious group will collect them, or a thousand or two, and then we're not rationalizing anything. In fact, we are making the conditions for the implementation of this democratic will more difficult than formal law. Therefore, this difference between rationalisation, as stated by this Government, and democracy or non-democracy in this country can be thin. And the question is, what do you really want to do? As you answered me yourself, you just gave me 2,500 signatures because you think it's the same thing as 1,000. The one who chooses 1,000 will also collect two and a half. But I can't agree with you here. I believe you do not oppose the amendment of the Slovenian National Party either, because we proposed 2000 with 2,500, because this is the same. Between 1000 and 5000, as proposed by the Government, there is no difference between 1000 as before and 5000 as proposed by the Government. You said it yourself. Every serious group collects this. And even if it's not serious, a thousand doesn't come to that, I can tell. Then you do not object to the amendment of the SNS, but for these, 2,000 signatures are needed for the initiation of the referendum procedure. I believe not, because there's no difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u51	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u52	Thank you. Well, first of all, we cleared up the misunderstanding. In fact, it was a "lapsus" on your part. You weren't talking about the thin line between democracy and rationalisation, but you were talking about the rationalization and the reduction of democracy. Now, here's the thing about signatures. I stand by myself to raise this threshold to 5,000 signatures. So why we have dropped to 2,500, Mr Potrč will be able to explain to you, which will only contribute to this law the number of votes that are additionally needed for the two-thirds majority. The fact that 1,000 is not equal to 2,500, I don't think there's any learning. There are 1500 differences between 1000 and 2500. 5,000 would be my real number. That would be the right number. And why do I say that anyone who fails to collect 5,000 signatures under such an initiative is insolvent? Those who fail to collect 5,000 signatures under the initiative to call for a referendum are obviously "heca" with the initiative to call for a referendum. And the one who "heca" takes valuable time to serve the National Assembly and puts his fingers in the legislative wheel, so that for a while the National Assembly in some segment cannot work, cannot lead the legislative process. But that's not a hindrance. An obstacle would be if this number were so high that it could happen that someone failed to collect 5,000 signatures, although later it might be possible to collect 40,000 in 35 days certified in the administrative unit. But I'm pretty sure the number 2500, and I don't think 5,000 is preventing it. And even for a millimeter, it doesn't make it harder to get to the referendum, except for those who make fun of each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch, you have the floor. Please. Excuse me, please, Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Mr. President-in-Office. But it seems to me that Mr Miran Potrč, a respected colleague, is not only one to defend the Government's proposals, why you came to 2,500 signatures. I believe Mr. Potts knows exactly where the ideas of up to 2,500 signatures are coming from. But nowhere on the list when we talk about the bill, I do not see him as proposing, but I see the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It's like you say, you know what, or the next one, as you've already called the lapsus, I hope we agree here. This time, however, it was "lapsus" on your side that the next representative of the government would say, but Mr Tanko would explain to you because he was involved. And I apologize for using his name. I would therefore ask the President to explain the laws proposed by the Government only to the Government and not to the opposition Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u55	Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The issue of the number of signatures needed to trigger the process of collecting 40,000 signatures is important, but not the only and most important issue of this law. I would like to express my attitude to the decision-making process and also to the amendment. At the time of drafting the bill, it was clear to me that the Government wanted to make the first decision difficult by raising signatures, which is a condition for the National Assembly to sign a deadline for signatures and I took it as a fact. I have discussed with the Government's representatives whether this is necessary and to what extent it is necessary and the consequences. We have led this discussion with the Minister. I agree that on behalf of our Group of Members, on number 2500, I have agreed to compromise. Now, what was my argument? To claim that 1000 is a definitive number and that it is not to be discussed, I did not think it would make sense, because even when we discussed some of the amendments and additions to the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative in the previous term, we had in mind the need to increase this number. At the same time, it was possible to take the view that, of course, it does not matter how high this number is, because in the event that it exceeds any possibility of rapidly gathering on the weight of the candidate in order to even ensure the collection of the signatures of 40,000 voters and voters. What was my position here? This should not be a problem for political parties. For the unions, it's probably a minor problem. Especially those who are larger and more numerous, for some civil social movements that are marked and organised. They had cases of people with disabilities collecting signatures, for example, as a mass civil society organization, it was not a problem. For someone who is now organizing an interesting question and for an area that can be very lifelike for him, of course, to gather 1000, 2000, 2500, 5000 or possibly even more, it is no longer such a simple question. For this reason, we felt that overheating the arc at this point would not be useful. The Government also considered this and said, okay, if this is one of those issues that can be a condition for the Social Democrats to agree to the law, we are prepared because this is not the only and most important issue of the law, we can talk about an intermediate number and we have agreed, as far as we are concerned and also the proponent, the Government, on 2500. I'll take it today. I'd rather see it's 2000. But to say that even if it were 2000 there would be a change of law according to the quality of something completely new, I cannot agree. I would like to say one thing in my opinion, Mr Zagorac. Nevertheless, I also separate serious and unserious signatories from the experience we have. In what way? Do they want to collect signatures and collect them 40 thousand or maybe not now when it comes to a subsequent referendum, because it is less important, even though it can, because it goes for all that time at the end of the two months, about until the law is enforced, especially when it comes to the previous referendum, did they want to simply institute a legislative procedure or were they meant to collect signatures and try to test the content at the referendum? You know well that we had, but I will not name cases where 1000 signatures were collected, and later, when signatures were collected in administrative units, there were many fewer of those 1,000, which probably indicates an unrealistic first idea or a later conclusion that it will not work, so they withdrew and we had cases where the signatures were collected just before the end of the mandate period with the knowledge that the law would no longer be on the agenda. However, if it were still in June, July, before the signatures began, 1,000 of them were gathered together, the marriage might have been adopted. Thus, such a possibility exists in this respect. I think it is a two-thirds law that some compromises at this point should be sought. However, I have an interest in allowing the referendum to be granted to civil society and interest organisations, because the parties can do so. That party that's not capable of collecting 1,000 signatures within a week, God help me. I guess it would be hard for you to say something beautiful about yourself. In addition, we have the opportunity to present the referendum through the decisions of Members of the National Assembly. That's why I stood up for not being too big. What's real? It would be my favorite thing to do if there were 1,000 left to do with me. But to say that it is not possible to discuss a minor increase in the cases I mentioned earlier would not make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Since I know they're still interested in the second application, I'm opening the application. Please. Thank you very much. It's Dr. Gaber's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! We also welcome this debate on what is happening to this threshold. This time, we share the proposaler's opinion that this threshold is not particularly controversial. We have even aligned ourselves in these talks, which have been held exceptionally with the opposition on this issue. We'll support the solution that's in the marriage. I would think that this solution would be even better accepted if we could agree on what I mentioned earlier in order to end the previous referendum and hold my colleague Zagorec's claim that there was a lot of bile spilled in these rooms on the question of how the end of democracy would be practical if we did not have it. But since positions have changed then, there is now a different logic at work. But if, when we put an end to this and we can probably agree again in the majority that this is not very questionable on our own, it would be possible to agree that we would not have a situation in which we are in fact in this House today. When Parliament places the law on the agenda, which, if adopted as proposed, will be contrary to the will of the people, which has been expressed in a non-referendum. And this Parliament has recently adopted the Opening Time of Trade Act, which is also contrary to the will expressed there. Now, I'm not going into whether a decision is smart or not. For example, in opening times, I am convinced that the decision is smart. That this one is better than the one that was adopted, as far as the mind at the referendum is concerned. However, this situation is not smart for the level and legitimacy of democratic procedures in the country. If you have a procedure set up to produce a certain result, then it is very bad if people who once advocated one have to change their mind when it comes to another decision and pretend that they did not defend a certain position. It is therefore better to give the law before the electorate and the electorate, to allow parliament to come against the law with its own and both of them to the vote. And those who will receive the majority, of course, should be valid and no longer in Parliament's hands, that the decision will be respected or circumvented in one way or another. And once again, there will be much less discussion of where the threshold is in this particular case. And given that the threshold of the parties who have declared themselves willing to support such a solution is criminalized, that these parties have more than two-thirds of the votes in this House, I would expect that, in the next few months, we will not be able to do so overnight, for a six-and-half year period of time, we will come up with a law that will allow the legislative referendum. If I understand correctly, he will also be supported by the SNS. At least that's how I understand this attachment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I must say, there are rarely times when I think that each of us can rightly be glad to be a member of this National Assembly, based on such a quality and reasoned debate as it is today. For, to a large extent, this debate touches on the very essence of the values that are, in fact, the basis of each consensus in politics in a given case, the fundamental issues of democracy, the level of democracy already achieved and, of course, the steps that could be taken together to further improve already achieved. However, there are also some words and views that need to be further enlightened. First, with regard to the issue of signatures, which is now given such an extraordinary weight, something has to be stressed here, which I do not think the Minister has been able to do enough to ensure that this law brings a completely different quality in this particular work. Indeed, the number of signatures is now higher. However, it will also allow the collection of signatures over the Internet, which is significantly different from what we have been used to so far. This also makes things easier. Now, from this point of view, I must say that in this part, when the Government introduces such a method in collecting signatures, initial signatures for the referendum, I strongly support. There is something else, that there will be no confusion, then there is the decision-making over the Internet, because there I am among those who are certainly the greatest skeptics in this National Assembly about elections and voting at the referendum itself on decision-making over the Internet. Because, unfortunately, I know too well the dark side of the Internet. The kids would call it hacking. I know what can be done in the most secure and secure systems. In this respect, in order to maintain credibility, democracy and the legitimacy of the decisions taken, it is necessary to maintain a great deal of caution when it comes to making final decisions. Like I said, when it comes to collecting signatures, that's how I support it. Now, what this debate is about in this part is moving us away from the core is what I see as very positive in this National Assembly. At the same time, however, I must give one answer to the words of a fellow SNS Member who referred to the duality of the current ruling party. Looks like he thought SDS. In view of the fact that I have been in the SDS for all 15 years, I was the one who was somehow responsible for the referendums and also for the legislation relating to the referendums and elections. I can assure you with all my responsibility, and I can also prove this if you want us to have consistently committed ourselves to the greatest and most free and final decision-making of the people as sovereign and without limitation. The same story you mentioned in 2004 is, in fact, the story of something else. At the time, there was also an article or provision in the draft constitutional amendment that would severely limit the right to a referendum. Of course, there was a Swiss model in the game, but with severe restrictions, which, in our firm belief, were illegal and unnecessary. We have always advocated what I understand today is that the Constitution itself is the one that gives the framework for the right to a referendum. This is said to require no mistrust, no additional restrictions. For the referendums, as it was said at the time, that all taxes be abolished and the state ceases to function, or that the police, as has been said before, may not come to such a referendum, because it prevents clear constitutional provisions. Such a referendum would be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Anyone who tries anything like this would face the guardian of constitutionality in our legal order. This is the Constitutional Court. It is said that such a referendum would not be possible to carry out. Now, in this negotiation, I have not seen such concerns in this time period. That is to say, I consider this to be a general consensus that we are all in this position now. I consider this to be an extremely great move forward, which allows us to look together for the best decisions. Why didn't the proposal come to light this time? Because, in my firm belief, in view of the Constitutional Court's previous constitutional judgement, it can be argued with almost 100% certainty that it is not possible to avoid the application of the Swiss model if it is consistently introduced in the event of a previous amendment to the Constitution. And in this regard, I have noticed that some parliamentary groups have had concerns and that is why we have not taken this further step. However, as it is said, I understand with all my heart that we continue with such conversations. I firmly hope that, if not in this situation, we will come to the Swiss model of the referendum in the coming term. By the way, this question, which is now given so much weight, would become completely irrelevant. For on the issue of signatures, the only question behind this is that the referendum has been misused or the referendum initiative has been misused as a process weapon in the legislative process to halt it, as one of my fellow Members of Parliament mentioned earlier in the debate. We've all done this in our history. Anyone who denies it, the rest of his colleagues can put something under his nose quickly. Of course, this has also led to some negative omen at the Institute of the Referendum and sometimes to misunderstandings. However, when a referendum was held, and because of this general impression, after or perhaps even the wrong impression in political elites, there was no last performance, and in fact we had conducted referendums in Slovenia relatively little, if we are honest with ourselves. In particular, if we compare ourselves with those countries with the most developed direct democracy. Personally, I must say not only that I have always opposed any obstacles, by the way, which some have also been proposed in these proceedings now, but I have advocated that the people must have a first and last word, and I firmly believe that not only with regard to the legislative referendum, that it would even be worth sitting together and also consider that, under very specific, harsh conditions, they would also allow the people to simply request a referendum to amend the Constitution, not only as it is now enshrined in the Constitution, but also that, under certain very specific, clear conditions, they could only propose a single amendment and then decide on it. For, if I am certain of anything, I am convinced that it is to allow the highest sovereign people, within the framework of the Constitution and the laws we lay down, here, to decide only to the greatest extent possible, including a gesture of trust in the people, and that the Slovenian nation certainly deserves this. I think it proves all the stories with the referendums that have actually been carried out in the past period since the referendum on Slovenia's independence. For each time, the debate went in the direction of content and in the direction of the values of that core of policy, which should always be the central guide of any public debate. I consider this quality to be a democratic quality that is worth preserving and upgrading. For this reason - as I say - I am defending myself and together with my colleagues in the SDS the solutions we have been talking about. So much for our side. As a matter of fact, the law that is here today saves a lot of things. It is a compromise, but it has certain qualities that also improve some of the so far poorly set solutions. Let me mention just one more that's touching, then the next amendment. This is a question of if you raise more referendum questions at the same time, more referendums on a similar problem. Then how do you determine the outcome? This too will finally be resolved by this law. For if such a solution were once in law, then a number of complications, which in my opinion was not good for Slovenian democracy, were not good for this very institution of referendum, which is in some way the best protector against any party like us, which, of course, can always come to in democracy, then everything that is, certainly would not have happened in the way it is, certainly not. I think that, at a given time, as this gesture of trust in the people, we can do two things together to support today's proposed law and then, of course, continue with the debates and try to achieve such a high degree of consensus on the possibility of consensus to open the way for the actual legislative referendum, once and for all, it has been completely separated from the legislative procedure of the remaining laws in the National Assembly. This means the introduction of a Swiss model. Then the referendum would no longer be any more procedural weapons, but it would establish the institution that democracy must have. As it is said, the people have the first and last word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A very short replica given that I was mentioned as a member of the SNS. First case, weight of signatures. You know, the government raises the number of signatures, not us. We're trying to lower them according to the government's proposal. And don't tell me that based on your ability to collect signatures online, you've come to this number, 2,500 is the right number, given that we're including the Internet. And when you were talking about duality. Consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, Prime Minister, you know silence is sometimes gold and Members sometimes do harm to the Prime Minister. At that time he represented the opposition's position and said: "We can collect 1,000 or 2,000 signatures. This is not a major problem, and probably other parties that are organised. But it's harder for civil society. Here the difference between a thousand and two thousand is so great that this law, if you accept this tendency," this was an amendment, "then you should change the title as well. This is not a law on human initiative, but it is then a law on restricting human initiative, because this threshold will be too high for any civil society initiative to trigger a demand in such a short time. 2,000 is a tenfold increase in the current number and in fact limits the right to make a human initiative for the referendum initiative. 1,000 is enough to prevent abuse." The continuation of your fellow Member then, not yours, but those who sat in Parliament, Mr Kelemina: "Of course, it is not difficult to gather them if you have the unions you control back there. And then you give them a decree to collect signatures, then it's not a problem. However, the kind of purely neutral human initiative is certainly a very big problem and a very large step towards collecting 2,000 signatures. That's why we won't support it under any circumstances." Today's SDS, the party's second shortcut. You know, so much about duality and how people change over time. At that time, 2,000 was a terrible problem. Today you raise to two and a half, and don't tell me that based on the Internet and that the people's initiative uses the Internet, and today it will be easier, or even the "hackers" as you have named them, I will not call them "mults", use the Internet, and help either the government or the opposition to collect signatures. That's what you used to say when you were in the opposition. That's what the Prime Minister said. He's doing something else today. And as I said myself, times change, people change over time, but principle is a very fine thing, as long as it can stay. Come on, please, let them bring you back what you've been defending, and don't talk nonsense here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u63	Time's up for a replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u64	and that you are not deceiving the Slovenian public. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs. Žginer Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Well, more or less with this replica, colleague Zagorac also said what I wanted in the debate about the amendment we tabled in the Slovenian National Parties. And I may not repeat the same words, but I will not reiterate the duality of some who today, with cynicism on their faces, are following and praising the law before us. I will say that the law - yes, indeed, in the vast majority - brings positive changes, positive changes for those who will be in the future users of this law, but such big words or praises actually cannot be as positive as they were or have been accepted by some colleagues in front of me. Those colleagues who come from coalition or government parties, of course. Humanity is the first and the last, or must have the first and last words. I agree, certainly, and this law is written, not for us Members of the National Assembly, but especially for the people, for the people's initiative, for the general public, who can participate directly through this law in decision-making processes or in democracy if you want. It is important, not only how serious and unrealistic the signatures given to an initiative to call for a referendum are, but it is important that Members of the National Assembly realize how serious the result of a referendum is. A few months ago, we witnessed how very Members of this National Assembly do not respect how much the Government does not respect the seriousness of the results at the referendum. The Trade Act is a wonderful case, respected colleagues and colleagues. It's a wonderful case when you're in the opposition, defending and giving, I don't know, serious or unrealistic signatures to the request for a referendum. But when you come to another option when you run politics, then people are no longer important, their decision is no longer serious. And let me just and only one more thing, because I've previously listened to a number of replicas of Minister Virant, who is actually signed under this law. Minister Virant was also, at least for a moment, very cynical when he referred to his fellow Member, Zagorec, or when he spoke about the amendment of the Slovenian National Party, which was in favour of reducing the number of signatures needed to submit an initiative to call for a referendum. The fact is, there is still a decision at the President of the National Assembly to say yes to an initiative or to say no to an initiative and take it into consideration. I hope you agree with me. And the President of the National Assembly is the one who can say that the initiative is not a perfect one, setting a deadline, a new deadline to be completed, and it is also the President of the National Assembly who can say that it is necessary to complement the initiative with so many new signatures and so many signatures. In this case, respected colleagues and colleagues, 2,500 signatures, may be appointed overnight by the President of the National Assembly. We have already had these cases under the current President of the National Assembly in this mandate. And if it is no problem for Members of the Group, Members and Members of the National Assembly to collect 2,500 signatures, I believe that a group of people in this country should be organised in such a way as to collect 2,500 signatures overnight. And that is why I am still an advocate, a great advocate, of what is in existing legislation, and I think that 1,000 signatures are still enough. Thousands of signatures are enough, but here I will be referring to thoughtfulness or the words of Mr Janez Janša to prevent abuse as well. It is important to respect the will of the people, the will of the people expressed in the referendum. Let this be your guide, your esteemed colleagues and your fellow executives. I will certainly support the amendment, as I estimate that, last but not least, a large majority of people still do not have the internet required, but do not have the necessary certificate in order to contribute to such signatures by electronic means. It's not like all the people in this country are "smokers" who get to know each other well on the computer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, we are closing the debate on this present amendment and putting to the debate Article 32 and the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. I see no one wants to discuss it. That is why I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the time frame of the meeting tomorrow in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 10th item of the agenda or at the latest at 6 p.m. and 25 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - SECOND DEPARTMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY RIGHTS LAW FROM THE WORK INSTRUMENT, EPA 1122-IV. We have 35 minutes to discuss. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Between you and me, I welcome the Minister of Mags. A visionary with a co-worker and a co-worker, and I also invite him to his word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u68	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today, we have before us a law on changes and additions to the Industrial Property Rights Act from the working relationship that we want to rename, namely, to remove from the law all that does not fall within this sphere, especially when we talk about the appearance of products when we talk about technical and other improvements, so we also want to rename the law into the Labour Inventions Act. It is very important for me to say that the practice of protecting rights, such as these, is not uniform in the European Union, and that is why this law is also largely modelled and follows the solutions provided by German law. The main reasons for the adoption of the amendment are the updating of the law and the correction of the shortcomings that have been demonstrated in its implementation. What I think is crucial, however, is the orientation or message of the law that goes in the direction of stimulating employers to make their employees more resourceful. So, the law is an important step towards rewarding the appropriate ingenuity of people who are involved in the work process, or those who also carry this ingenuity as the scope of the work and tasks, or those who do not carry it and do it. By doing so, we want to increase the innovation and innovation of our companies, as well as to activate people to become more involved in this area. This seems very important to me in ensuring greater competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and thus the success of the Slovenian economy in a European and global difficult environment. How do the proposed solutions relate to the determination of the remuneration of workers and to the out-of-court resolution of disputes in the settlement council established or established by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property? The bill will have no financial implications for the state budget or for other public funds, and we therefore propose that you adopt the law, as proposed, with amendments adopted by the home labour body.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The draft law, as is customary, has also been treated by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body and I ask the President, who is unfortunately not to present the report, to present it. Therefore, the report follows, or presentation of the views of the groups of Members, and I invite Mr Mikolić to the floor on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u70	Well-welcome, distinguished chairman, respected minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that it is necessary to create a working environment in all jobs that will promote all forms and results of creativity, both individuals and groups. We believe that this is one of the key activities that can lead to improved competitiveness, both economic and non-economic operators, on the domestic market and, above all, on the foreign market. How to promote employee innovation as much as possible? After 10 years of implementation of the Industrial Property Rights Act, there have been shortcomings that urgently need to be addressed in order to stimulate innovation for employees. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the adoption of a new law that better regulates the relationship between workers and employers in this area. The draft law contains three main problem sets, namely, the scope of the Industrial Property Rights Act, which eliminates duplication with the Copyright and Related Rights Act, while the remaining two problems of the association relate to the remuneration of workers and to less difficult changes through out-of-court dispute resolution. From the scope of the Industrial Property Rights Act, the model of foreign solutions excludes anything that is not an invention, since, in addition to industrial property rights, it also regulated technical and other improvements that are not industrial property rights. An invention created within six months of the end of the working relationship is no longer considered an invention, but only an invention created during the working relationship. It is clearly stated that the worker is always rewarded. The height depends on the circumstances, the case, which determines the more clearly defined criteria in the law. In particular, the law should encourage the creation of solutions to the most difficult technical problems, these are inventions, and thus contribute to increasing the competitiveness of economic operators. That is why we are also in favour of our Group of Members. Technical improvements are thus returned to the original area of labour law, following the example of comparable foreign legislation. Promoting such innovations is already regulated in the general sectoral collective agreements, and employers can further encourage this by their internal rules and state appropriate system award. Since we agree with the changes, we will also support the law in Novi Slovenija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr President will speak on behalf of the SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Industrial Property Rights Act was adopted in 1995 and amended in 2002 to comply with other regulations. The proposal for a new law mainly refers to some corrections in the area of duplication of the content of this law with the Copyright and Related Rights Act and in the area of remuneration of workers and out-of-court dispute resolution. The proposed novel therefore brings the necessary changes and we support it in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The amendment of the law should also provide a more stimulating environment to promote innovation. I think we are all concerned that innovation is a key activity of each organisation, each undertaking for long-term success. Companies that do not invest in innovation cannot survive in the long term. We could even say that, in this particular case, we somehow regulate or further regulate the mandatory remuneration of innovation workers used by the company for itself or for its production. In the Group of Members, we hope that this novel will at least have a positive effect or an incentive for greater and innovative engagement of workers in any case. As it is said, the members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Rezman has the following word on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u74	Thank you very much, once again, Mr President. As elsewhere in the world, we are also aware of the importance, knowledge, innovation, creativity and creativity in Slovenia, especially in all our development programmes, and we want to encourage this. Compared to other countries, they should not be too pleased in this area; not as regards the number of innovations, inventions per capita or employee, not as regards the size of the added value, not as regards the number of patented inventions, etc. In short, this is an area that we need to devote enough and more attention to, and that is why we in the DeSUS Group support this proposal, which we can work towards, which helps us to do what we are trying to do. It is not just about dealing with individual shortcomings, although it is also true, and perhaps it is also good that we can say here and there that we are dealing with our own shortcomings, try to eliminate them, and do not follow them as some would like to show, we are simply following lightly those legislative proposals or those directives that are adopted in the European Union and we simply need to implement them with us. We estimate that this law is also worthy of support because it regulates somewhat overly covered individual legislative areas, labour law, copyright legislation, and the legislation we are now talking about, which is also reflected in the proposal to amend the law itself. It is therefore a matter of turning this law into a law that highlights the scope of inventions, not so many improvements, technical and other, and not copyrights that fall within other areas. So it's about getting a marriage that's now somehow [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] clear and clarify obligations and rights. [[..]] It is also about ensuring greater security of the inventions of those who invent, trying to ensure more appropriate, including with new criteria, rewards, and protecting the rights of those who may have this right at certain awards for inventors to use or economically exploit inventions. This could all contribute to our faster development and, therefore, to date, the debate has not shown any greater concern for individual Members and Members, but rather more or less united support. In the DeSUS Group, we will use these inventions as a proposal for a law dealing with the regulation of the relations between those who invent and those who exploit them, i.e. the proposal for a law regulating the award and promoting innovation, in particular the part concerning inventions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u75	Thank you. And the last one has the word, Mr Ljublješek, on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected council, a respected minister and a representative of the government! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposed amendment and supplementation of the Industrial Property Rights Act from the working relationship, because we believe that the legal basis for promoting innovative activities is significantly improving. The current law was adopted in 1995 and supplemented in 2002. It regulates the rights of innovation workers and employers, including inventions, product appearances and technical and other improvements. The application of the law in practice has shown a number of shortcomings, which largely equates the treatment of technical and other improvements to inventions, thus equating rewards and thus reducing motivation for inventions. An invention created within 6 months of the termination of the working relationship, which caused certain problems, is also considered to be a work invention, allowing the employer to delay the decision to take the invention. There are also complex provisions on awards for individual workers or groups of workers who have created an invention, both for important and less important inventions. The functioning of the settlement board in terms of efficiency and costs was also optimal. These are the main reasons for updating the current law and for correcting the shortcomings, which we strongly support in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, namely that the proposed amendment of the law is based mainly on the principle of invention, the right of industrial property must belong to the inventor and to the non-supervised employer, but the employer is allowed to take over the invention and the worker must always be rewarded in return, regardless of whether it is a pseudo-direct or direct invention. The amendment also proposes that, in order to clarify the separation of inventions from other innovative improvements in the model of foreign legislation, the scope of product appearances be excluded from the law, which will continue to be governed by the provisions of the Copyright and Related Rights Act, but also exempt technical and other improvements that are transferred to the field of labour law or that the employer provide in its internal acts for ways and procedures to promote innovation, including rewards, but also for inventions that have been created after the end of the working relationship. The novel also makes it clear that the employer has an obligation to always reward the employee in the event of taking over the employee's work invention, which has not been a practice so far. There are also clearer criteria for determining the level of the prize, clearer awards for co-instructors are also set, and provisions that prevent employers from delaying their decisions on the acquisition of the invention are also important. In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we will always advocate and support all solutions and legislative changes to legal provisions and measures that will encourage inventors to create inventions, which will have a long-term impact on employee innovation and create solutions to difficult technical problems, thus increasing the competitiveness of businesses. This is also the fundamental purpose of the proposed amendment of the law, so we will certainly support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. And since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Monday 18 December of this year in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to move on to 4. Agenda item - To explain the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on autor and related rights. The total time for discussion is two hours and 25 minutes. This law has also been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Mag. Visionary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Law on Copyright and Related Rights was also adopted in 1995 and has been completed many times so far, last January of this year. Indeed, there is also a significant change in the European Community and it is right to follow these trends in Slovenia in this direction. Moreover, the protection of intellectual property, copyright and related rights is an important measure to ensure a more competitive economy, to ensure the innovation of innovation policies, and we are aware of this in the Ministry and also in the Government. At the same time, however, when we talk about this protection, solutions must be effective and non-discriminatory to anyone. Therefore, the main purpose of the current novel on copyright and related rights is to ensure, in particular, an effective system for setting tariffs for collective organisations and, of course, a greater efficiency of collective management of copyright and related rights. It is proposed to establish a comprehensive system that allows the tariff to be fixed only in one case, and this is not possible in the event that an agreement is not possible when an agreement between representatives of copyright organisations, collective organisations representing related rights and users is not possible. Only in this case. And by no means do we want this law to replace dialogue and negotiation, which is not the case. However, we do not want to see that, in the absence of an agreement, it imposes a solution and the right of any one, because we are convinced that it belongs to this area in the area of negotiation. Therefore, the current solutions to the current law are not appropriate and are being upgraded by this text. With a similar solution, we came to the National Assembly as early as January this year, when we introduced the so-called arbitration. At that time, Parliament took a different decision from what we are primarily for one reason, purely for a formal reason, because arbitration is supposed to be an institution for the resolution of disputes, which must be agreed in advance and must also be recognised in advance by the contractual partners. As a result, we have actually understood the message that Parliament does not, in principle, oppose the resolution of disputes, but at that time opposed the way we wrote it. So, by the way we introduce it here, the Copyright Council is able to determine the rights professionally and in a balanced manner when unfortunately they could not be negotiated between users or between authors and users with dialogue. As a result, we do not support the amendments of the Liberal Democracy, which destroy these efforts of the Government and the Ministry. It is very important that the copyright council, the professional institution, is balanced and that this is, in fact, also in some other countries, a way of getting out when an agreement is not possible. We also intervened after this solution because these issues have not been successfully resolved in Slovenia so far, especially when we are talking about SAZAS. In SAZAS until today, the dialogue has failed to agree on a way of negotiating, let alone on the content of the agreement, so we propose a world and this form of dispute resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u79	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ferri Horvat, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected minister, with his associates, respectable colleagues and colleagues! At its 24th meeting, on 6.12.2006, the Committee on the Economy considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. Representatives of the proposed law Ministry of Economy and Representatives of the Office of Intellectual Property, Law and Legal Services, the Institute for the Exercise of the Rights of Performers and Producers of Phonograms of Slovenia, the Short Institute of IPF, the Association of Authors and Publishers for the Protection of Copyright of Slovenia, SAZAS, the Association of Authors and Artists of Small and Other Copyrights of Slovenia, ZAM, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The Committee was informed of the broad opinion of the Legislative and Legal Services, part of the comments of this service was taken into account in the proposal for amendments to the Committee or in the amendments of the three SDS, NSI and SLS groups. The Committee was also informed of the comments of the IPF Office and the proposals for amendments tabled by DeSUS, the comments and proposals for amendments to the SAZAS Association, the comments and proposals for amendments to the Chamber of Commerce and the proposals for amendments to the Committee of Ambassador Bojan Ruglja. There has been a rather long debate on the Committee and at times also a controversial debate. The discussion expressed concerns about the appropriateness of the reduced procedure in view of the apparent relatively significant change in the applicable law, as evidenced by a number of and quite different comments and various interests of interested organisations. The discussion focused on the provisions of Articles 6 and 7 in particular of the Copyright Council. The arguments for and against the proposed solutions were cited and the majority opinion was that it was desirable to encourage tariff arrangements and that the Council's intervention in the event of an agreement not being reached should be an exception. Therefore, a proposal for an amendment by Member Bojan Ruglja was also adopted to introduce, instead of a permanent Council, a Council with an "ad hoc" composition of representatives of the collective organisation and representative user associations, depending on the content of the decision-making, on a tariff not agreed on by both parties. On the part of the users, the Chamber of Commerce supported the proposed solution at the meeting, the amendments adopted are included in the amended law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u81	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, fellow Members and fellow Members! The latest amendment to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights was adopted this year at the beginning of the year and relates in particular to compliance with European rules. Initially, it should be pointed out that the field of copyright is a very sensitive area and is regulated by a number of international instruments. Many of them also commit to the Republic of Slovenia. Let me mention here only the general declaration on human rights, and the preamble to the Trips Agreement. Perhaps there is no need to pay particular attention to the issue of copyright protection from the point of view of modern technologies. For we all know that today there are many, I hope to say, even the most music, films and other similar copyright products in the form of illegal copies for consumers. Of course, such a situation further exacerbates the relationship in the field of copyright. The proposed amendment of the law is necessary in order to make the tariff procedure more precise and to make certain minor amendments to the law. Tariffs are an integral part of a common agreement concluded by collective organisations with representative associations of users of protected works in cases of mass use of protected works. Due to many disputes between users and collective organisations, the latest amendment to the Copyright and Related Rights Act has established a special arbitration procedure for the purposes of out-of-court dispute resolution, but the amendment has been adopted in a form which does not provide the necessary effects in part of the arbitration, since the arbitration agreement requires the consent of both parties. Today, however, the paper proposes the introduction of a copyright board which, on the basis of the request of the collective organisation and the representative user association, would set a tariff. Such a solution is necessary as it is not possible to use protected works legally in the case of tariff-setting disputes under the law currently in force. In the case of an indefinite tariff, users do not pay fees for use and, of course, collective organisations cannot charge tariffs. From the point of view of ensuring the legality of the application of these rights, we consider the proposed solution appropriate. The Copyright Council is an expert and independent body, the President and members are appointed by the Minister, with two members proposing all collective organisations and two representative users' associations. The President of the Council, however, proposes a competent authority, i.e. the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, the proposed law is considered appropriate and supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Zagorac will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Dear President, your honors are here! The applicable Law on Copyright and Related Rights was adopted in spring 1995. To date, it has been completed and modified four times. The most recent changes, as we have heard from my predecessors, were mainly compliance with European rules. For the time being, in our country, they have permission to collectively manage copyright and related rights, and I will only mention shortcuts: SAZAS, ZAMP and IMPS. Although there is a law before us that somehow protects by the Constitution a certain right for individuals, I am talking about copyright and intellectual rights. That's right. The same is true of protecting these rights. The question is whether this protection allows or allows for unjustifiable wealth. It is right that someone for his product, for his work, but if you want a song, a film or a photograph, wants some decent profit, but you have to ask yourself how this money is obtained and who is the source of it. And if I'm biased, and I'm just gonna focus on the radio. Today every clock - let the clockmen not understand it maliciously - listens to the radio, so that the time passes faster. He gets three bills that he has to pay annually to protect the copyright of someone who wrote this song. Wouldn't it be easier if we went this way and said O. K., let's pay him something because we listen to him, the same goes for guest restaurants, and we would give it to a one-year annual amount collected by a single agency, organization or anyone, and then this amount or sum of money, which we know is not enough - and that's why the interests and appetites, when we adopt such a law, are not small - whether this agency, this organization, this organization, will coordinate the interests of all who exercise copyright or other related rights. Not that people today get three bills, but it seems to us that at one point it may be pointless, or why someone would pay or miss or not, but after two unpaid bills, we block his jury account and deal with clockwork. I don't think it makes any sense. The first consensus that users of these rights should achieve or should achieve is the internal consensus between themselves, what they really want, and come with this consensus either before this national assembly or before the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and say, we agree with this, that is how this should be our way, we from this point of view, for example, come out. For example, the biggest problem among people or users was SAZAS. According to their tariffs, SAZAS receives 2 billion Slovenian tolars annually. You have to admit that's what the money SAZAS uses. And the question is, how do users get this money, how do they get it? The government had proposed arbitration a while ago, but hand to heart, this matter never worked out for those who didn't pay for it. It seems to me that in itself there is some sort of intermediate solution between the inconsistentness or the lack of consensus of those who create and those who use these services. And I think it would be necessary sooner than later, but here I appeal by the Slovenian National Party to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to tackle piracy in particular. Piracy - we know that the Internet is a very accessible matter, we have talked about it before, even a referendum will be possible to sign or collect signatures. And here's the problem. People or "moles", as Mr Grims has called them, can use this matter and violate copyright. And this is where legislation needs to be put in place. We need to keep pace with time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The Copyright Act has, as has been said, been the subject of many opinions and changes and additions. And last but not least, it was in our mandate. That's when and today, at least in our judgment, it's the same problem. Of course, there have been many other changes in this law, but the fundamental problem was how, for the first time, to protect copyright, and for the second time how to protect those who use copyright. So how to protect the interests of users. The gap between these two protections was often so great that communication was more or less unsuccessful; communication is primarily here. When we are talking about the protection of copyright, which is for all of us, I believe that it is indisputable and absolute, we must at least take into account that it is two levels. First, to protect justice when the author gives his copyright work out of hand, and secondly to protect justice, when this copyright work is already in circulation, when it is already in the public sphere and therefore when someone else indirectly protects the collective organization, indirectly protects this copyright interest. And here, above all, my judgment leads to misunderstandings. When we last amended the Copyright Act, the main problem was actually arbitration. He's not arbitrating on his own. He's arbitration as predicted. We also called it forced arbitration, and then the argument helped us to understand each other somehow more. I hope that's the way it's gonna be today. The current legislation has a flaw highlighted by the amendment's proposer, and we also agree with others, namely that someone has the opportunity to preserve the existing situation, which is not good for everyone. One who is not ready to communicate has that power. And we believe that it is right to limit this power or this unwillingness to negotiate, however, to communicate or to find mechanisms to prevent this protection of a separate interest. The comments to the legislation were mainly made by the ZASP collective organisations, the IPF, and today the SAZAS has been mentioned several times, and in the DeSUS delegation we have accepted their comments in such a way that we have formed them into amendments and proposed them for discussion, especially because the relationship to these proposals has not been cleared within the coalition, at least for our Group of Members, and so as to allow ourselves to discuss and re-evaluate whether the amendments are appropriate or not. The fundamental problem for our decision was the problem of answering the question whether this law and the introduction of the copyright council prevents communication. The clear answer that we discussed on the working body was no, and I agree with that. For this reason, we have also withdrawn some amendments for the following reasons, because the world is in no way preventing communication. The world does not detract from anything, does not impose certain tariffs. The Council is an instrument that enters later in time when communication is not possible. And if we look at it, we'll see that it's also a very conditional institution, so it's "if" before making a decision: if agreements are not adopted and the timing follows, it's clear what's causing it and what's causing it - the reason is misunderstanding. And the fact that two collective organisations have been able to negotiate and conclude agreements, one not, is the argument that some arbitration is also necessary later, otherwise someone can only protect their interests, which is not in the public interest and not in the public interest and not in those we call users. That is why we have withdrawn these amendments, we will not support these two amendments, which are now proposed, and we will support the draft law as proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr Rugelj will postpone the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u88	Thank you very much. A nice welcome to all in attendance, but of course to the Minister of Economy, Mr Visiak, Mr Prešern and also to the lady from the Office. The new Law on Copyright and Related Rights in 2004 amended several provisions in the collective management of copyright and related rights. Among other things, the collective organisation’s new obligations were to conclude joint agreements with representative user associations setting out, in particular, the conditions, methods of application and the amount of compensation for the use of these parts. Unless the agreement was concluded, the tariffs of the collective organisation were in force. Due to a number of disagreements and the lack of an effective mechanism to resolve these differences, the Government proposes necessary amendments to the Copyright and Related Rights Act. An essential novelty of the bill is the introduction of a copyright board which, on the basis of a request from a collective organisation or representative user association, sets an appropriate tariff or decides on another disputed issue. The Council shall consist of five members, two members shall propose representative associations and a collective organisation, and the President of the Council shall be the person who fulfils the conditions for a district judge and shall be proposed by the competent authority. The Copyright Council is not a state authority and is not a public authority, but it is a specialised body where the parties can reach an agreement on or leave a decision on the appropriate tariff. It is a wish for all tariffs to be negotiated and not in the process before the world, but in cases where this is not possible, the bill introduces a solution that allows the issue to be resolved, a decision of the world as an expert and independent body. It is not a compulsory procedure, but merely an opportunity to resolve the issue in cases where the parties cannot or even do not wish to reach an agreement. Comparably legally speaking, institutions are, within the meaning of the proposed Council, a solution that is also being used in the countries of the European Union and elsewhere. The appropriateness of tariffs is primarily achieved by the agreement of the parties, but if there is no agreement, the legislator shall provide a suitable mechanism to make the blockade impossible or exceed the protection of constitutionally guaranteed exclusive rights, while at the same time the abuse of the monopoly will not occur. The author's constitutional right is to set the price of his work. Of course, it is the same for the user to decide whether to buy or not work at such a price. The Council will only be established at the request of one or both parties involved and, of course, only if the negotiations do not lead to an agreement between the users and the collective organisation. The decision of the Council shall be subject to an action brought before the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia within 30 days of the notification of the decision following the model of the Securities Market Act. At the very least, the possibility of prohibiting the use of works of copyright remains with collective organisations, which of course no one wants. It is also important to point out that the law provides for a criterion for setting tariffs to be taken into account by the Copyright Council in setting tariffs, namely that this is comparable to tariffs in our neighbouring EU countries, of which we, of course, are part, taking into account and comparing our gross income per capita with income per capita in a compared country or several countries. Other changes and additions are less difficult and aim to address shortcomings that in practice cause problems. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, of course, we support the amendment of the law because, last but not least, it is encouraging that the necessary agreements between stakeholders will only take place, which is in the interest of both authors and users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr Slavinac will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u90	Hello! Good-bye! In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we advocate all solutions that will protect the interests of authors on the one hand and users, I stress, also of users on the other. However, the proposed solution we have on the bench does not lead to this objective. The proposed arrangement introduces a copyright council, which is a new, under these powers, almost a government body that will intervene gravely in the areas of intellectual property protection. This regulation affects the area of copyright, which are intangible goods, but also property, like any other movable and immovable property and belongs to the author himself. Copyright is considered to be absolute, which means that the authors set the amount of compensation for their rights. On the other hand, it is not permissible for any third country to intervene in these rights. An arrangement that introduces a so-called copyright council, which will be an arbitral mine of creators or users, may also, despite already agreed partners, set tariffs where a collective organisation and a representative user association do not reach an agreement even after four months of negotiations. So it's not about the world being activated by the consent of both parties involved, but automatically when they don't make a deal after four months. And that is why we do not have any guarantee that, as the presentation said, the world envisaged as the motivation to negotiate, since one of the parties, any one of them, can approach these arrangements "with a fig in his pocket" and purposefully negotiates to the extent that then the world does. The Copyright Council is therefore not bound by the requests of the parties and thereby obtains disproportionately excessive powers. The dilemmas that we have with regard to the creation of the Copyright Council are that it is established as a new independent body, which is virtually not independent, but there is a danger, a very high risk that it will be forced to take into account the criteria that are not professional, but will be political. The Copyright Council in the area of a tariff is also not bound by the requests of the parties, thereby obtaining disproportionately excessive powers, which is even worse, nor is sufficient judicial protection provided. The proposed regime is the so-called state regime and there is a danger that this world, like many other councils set up by this Government, will act politically and will be decisions to the detriment of one or the other party involved. As one of the arguments, the Ministry also pointed out that the authors and users failed to agree on how they would negotiate. Now I don't know if it's the fact that they've already agreed. The vast majority agreed on the tariff and the method of cooperation, which also makes this argument completely irrelevant. In view of all of this, we will not support the bill's proposal in the Liberal Democracy Club if it remains without the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr Franc Horvat will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! The relatively long and sometimes controversial debate on the proposal for a law on the home labour body raises the question whether it was a suitable decision to propose and consider a bill after a reduced procedure. Written opinions, amendments and debate have shown different, even biometric, views on solutions in marriage. In addition to the various expert opinions, there are also largely different interests. We believe that it is a shame that, both by the proposer and by interested organisations, more efforts and willingness have not been made in the drafting phase of the law to reach an agreement or compromise that is more widely acceptable. The poor and good experience of teaching how important it is to reach an agreement when it comes to different interests, even before the decision-making and voting in the National Assembly, showed an example of the working time of trade with which we dealt very much. The new law will, according to our assessment, achieve a goal, namely to promote the negotiation of collective organisations of copyright and related rights and tariff consumers if the action or decision-making of the world introduced by the amendment of the law is as rare or as possible. Therefore, we will closely monitor the implementation of the law in anticipation and hope that it will not be necessary to amend the law in a relatively short time within a few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Mikolić has the last word on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u94	Again, thank you for your word. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the ideal solutions that would please all involved actors in the field of copyright and related rights are not easy to find. Therefore, we had doubts about whether it would be effective in practice when adopting the new law six months ago, because, in fact, it was at the very heart of the work being done in the National Assembly that this amendment had been changed. What we have before us today, however, is to ensure an effective system for resolving all open issues between collective organisations and users, in particular in the tariff segment. The government is confident, and we also agree in the New Slovenia Group that the dialogue of the parties involved in resolving open issues is the best way to achieve an optimal solution. The proposer considers that the current regime does not encourage negotiation between the parties involved, but even prevents it to some extent, and therefore wants to overcome this situation by introducing the Copyright Council as an expert, independent and impartial body. Currently, Article 163a introduces special arbitration as an additional means for the out-of-court resolution of disputes between the collective organisation and the representative association of protected works users. It was proposed that a collective organisation or representative user association may request arbitration to decide on the content of the joint agreement if it has not been concluded after four months of negotiation. In doing so, it was of the utmost importance that the other party should not refuse to participate in the arbitration procedure. Article 163a of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights was adopted, but, as I have already mentioned, was amended or amended in the National Assembly. Article 163a of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, adopted and in force, is based on an arbitration agreement, which means that it is already necessary for both parties to enter into an arbitration agreement. In the absence of an arbitration agreement, none of them may initiate an arbitration procedure in which the content of a joint agreement, the essential part of which is the tariff, would be determined. However, such arrangements do not adequately address cases where collective organisations and representative user associations cannot agree on the content of the agreement, as there is no other option other than the course of justice. The meeting of the Committee therefore focused on the new provisions of Articles 6 and 7, namely the provisions on the Copyright Council. The members of the Committee wondered whether these world provisions in any way prevented the negotiation or communication between collective organisations and user associations or, possibly, provided for an instrument providing for greater motivation for parties involved in the conclusion of agreements. The answer to this question, however, is essential for the law to work in practice. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the basic purpose of the bill is to encourage agreement between collective organisations and user associations. The new law seeks to balance the situation and in any way to enable negotiations and agreements between the parties involved to take place. To this end, provisions on the copyright world have been drawn up, as the existing solutions to the law do not sufficiently ensure the effective achievement of the agreement. It should be pointed out that if an agreement is reached, the provisions on the Council shall not apply at all. It is not a mandatory procedure, but a solution to the issue. This will be the decision of the Council only if either party wishes to do so because the other side of the negotiations will prevent or delay or if both parties request it because they will not be able to reach an agreement. Since in New Slovenia we want all collective organisations and user associations to agree, we will also support the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On this occasion I also warmly welcome students and students and assistants from the University of Ljubljana of the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport. Welcome to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, welcome to the so-called temple of democracy. We are moving on to a debate on two articles and two amendments tabled to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on copyright and other related rights. I am putting to the debate first Article 6 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. I'm asking if anyone wants a word. I'd like you to sign up in the usual way. The application is pending, and Mr. Minister with his hand if you'd like to discuss it. Thank you very much. The first one has the word, Mr. Skolč, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Allow me to link this discussion practically to both articles, because they are somehow inseparable. In this way, I will return first to this opening statement by the Minister, where it has proved to be a key change in the law, not at the point where harmonisation is needed, I will say, with the arrangements in the European Union, but where arbitration issues are concerned, or at this point in time that the State, the Ministry, is deciding on how copyright is dealt with. All those who had just reasoned on their views also focused on this open question. Allow me to doubt that the Minister fully understands what copyright is and how it is done to protect them, or I would not talk about the need to ensure not a solution that guarantees the rights of one, but that the right to negotiate must be ensured. Those were his words. I must say, in this context, this is a perfectly legal new one. It is neither the right of one nor the ingenuity of the right to negotiate. It is political Latvian that covers this hidden desire to intervene in copyright in an inadequate way. However, if the Minister proves to me that there is some right to negotiate that is contrary to property rights, which are also copyrights in some sense, then we will be able to talk more easily. But we're here talking about how to deal with the protection of copyright and related rights. Nor is it about having the same rights, for example, those who make music perform it, and as colleagues in the SDS think, those who listen to it. This isn't about the same rights. Whoever creates music creates it, who makes it on sound carriers, has some active rights, while the other one is responsible for paying for it. One way or another. If he buys a sound carrier and uses it at home, I'll say, do my thing. If an RTV subscriber can also do this at home, but if he has a business activity and plays it in public space, then he is obliged to pay for it. We could see that on all sound carriers, it says, "It's not for public play. This is the element that allows us to talk about it. I'm sorry, I think you're kind of in the position of those who just took these rights as air that we can all breathe without having to pay for it. Communist China, for example, had very serious difficulties in joining the World Trade Organisation precisely because of its disrespect for these copyrights, intellectual property and so on. That's exactly why, Mr. Secretary, you're just doing, I'll say, something very similar. We have also heard a statement today that is really worth commenting on. That this solution will be very good if it is used a little. She'll probably be great if she doesn't use anything. That's one hypocritical claim. Why propose a solution that we all know is bad if used, Minister? Why propose a solution to frighten others into agreeing? If someone does not agree to an agreement, then he will always be able to cause this dispute so that the Council can be set up for this copyright. One or the other can do this and then what happens here is what we object to: that the Council, with the majority that the Ministry constructs in spite of everything, will decide what the tariff will be. I must say that we have had a similar situation since the IPR, if I am not mistaken, confirmed tariffs. However, this has proved not to be a good thing, that in some ways it means unnecessary state regulation. Now, under another company, that this is called the Council, that such solutions exist in Europe, we are coming back on track. I assure you, Mr Minister, that the solution that is now in force, which has not led to the agreement of all three collective organisations with users, is also not contrary to European law. Where we have so-called state regulations, as you say, we can speak of them as acceptable if they are accepted by all. But if one of the parties does not accept them in advance, Mr Minister, then we can achieve this through Parliament by law, but we, in fact, are politically notifying the interests of those who own copyright and related rights. And that is what the National Assembly will do today, and they will participate, if I understand correctly, in all the coalition partners. It would be very fair to say 'few' because the other words for it to reach into copyright are not and then hide behind some pretty-talking people, but the state is concerned that they agree. A bad year ago, we heard there was no way IPH could be negotiated. Since the solution was legalized, IPH has practically reached most of the agreements, and another collective organisation has jumped out of SAZAS, which was not a problem at the time. This means that there are other instruments that can lead to this solution. But this, ladies and gentlemen, that the National Assembly, I will say, is servicing the Minister in his desire to intervene in copyright, so that in fact those who are owners would not actually have the opportunity to really participate in the decision-making process, which is too much. One more thing. By the way, in his ignorance, the Minister also suggested that those who advocate defend copyrights to do so against payment. I can tell from this place that I'm not doing this against payment. His colleague said he missed it. But I'd like the minister to say that, if he's saying that, if it's someone who's doing it against payment, he shouldn't have done it. Because I find such instigation, such as hinting, if there is a minister in the House of State, unworthy. But if there's evidence that someone is illegally lobbying for this or one or the third party, then please, here.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like to? In the end, good. Then I give my word to Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I have predicted that I will not support either amendment for the following reasons. The first amendment is presented as editorial. And another is one who explains why such a world for copyright should not be or why this article should be deleted. With regard to the first amendment, of course, I do not think it is possible to insist that this would be so, I would say, a rich editorial amendment. This is an anticipatory amendment that only makes sense if Article 7 is not. So this predicts its purpose in this sense that it must be eliminated and then would only be editorial. If we first accepted Article 7, then the sixth, which is timeless and systematic, could be really editorial. But that's not the way it is, it's the way it's the way it's the way it's the way it's the way it's the way As for the second thing that has been said about whether it is justified to expect that we can breathe free of charge and enjoy copyright for free, I agree that this is not the case. We can't get copyright for free, we don't have air for free. We are already paying him richly through various fees, etc., and so is the case. Just as it is true that people pay for the air we breathe, so it is also true that we pay for copyright. But again, I think we should understand that this exclusive, absolute copyright was, this possibility was given when the author gave something to the public or did not. And that's when he decides on what the conditions are. When this is in public circulation, then, of course, this copyright is already at another level, and it does not represent or represent the one that was actually the most frequently author, but some organisation that acts in his name and does not have every act, I will say, the authority to do exactly what it does. The unwise doing of any collective copyright organisations could even mean that the authors who put their copyright work in circulation will not achieve the goal that others can either watch it or read it or listen to it. Even that kind of absurdity could happen. On purpose, I present it absurdly. The third thing that I think is also worth considering is whether it would be best if there were no punishment, good or no. I think it's true. It's a good thing if there's a little punishment, if there's a little misdemeanour, a little crime, etc. It's best if it's not. But nowhere in the laws do we find this to live out of illusions, that no one will be anything that is not allowed or which is not recommended, did, and would continue to renounce everyone, under the terms of "sanction," because they do not have only criminal intent. They also have someone else, I'll say, a proactive preventive purpose and I think it's the same. And here I understand, perhaps a mistake, but I understand it as an incentive to agree. And if the two organisations were able to agree, this is proof that the world that is not now, and arbitration is not something that would prevent an agreement, only that they have a different degree of will and readiness of individual entities to negotiate, and this world that has the right to decide under certain conditions is a valve to solve the problem when there is a complete blockade. This complete blockade would essentially mean defending the rights of one, not all, but just one part of those who should negotiate. And to put it a little bit harder, this is the right to defend the arrogance of one of the collective organisations in Slovenian society.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I invite the Minister of Economy to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u100	Thank you very much. First of all, I really want to deny a few claims. First of all. The Council is not a state authority. The Copyright Council is an independent expert body composed of representatives of authors or holders of these rights and users on the other hand. He has a president proposed by the professional institute of the Office of Intellectual Property. It is said that this is a balanced professional body that comes in line only as an exception, as an exception, if, at some point in time, it fails to reach agreement with the other party on open issues, any. You can do it the other way around. It can be the Copyright Council, because I can see that there is actually some fear here that the rights of copyright holders and related rights will be degraded. It could be the other way around. The world will be able to set a higher standard than it is now, and to a greater extent also determine whether tariffs or any other matter. I wouldn't take it unilaterally. And in fact, I see hints primarily in this direction of maintaining existing positions, if we lose something that is probably also logical to lose, but we do not want to do so, because we actually want some groups that we declare ourselves as representatives here to maintain some unsustainable or inappropriate solutions. Here too, representatives of the Liberal Democracy have been told that they are not able to agree. Once again, we were able to agree only on the implementation of the new rights, and there was no way to change the existing SAZAS tariff system without an agreement to negotiate, let alone an agreement on the content. The new right is relatively easy to agree on, because it is something new and they actually have an interest in both. I would also like to highlight something else that I think is essential, and Mr Školč has repeatedly referred to. In fact, he spoke exclusively about individual copyrights and not about collective rights. Moreover, the Constitutional Court has also sent a legislator to ensure that the possible blocking of copyright protection is impossible or exceeded and that the inability to abuse these rights will also be protected. That's a reference we've been following here as well. All these solutions are also in line with the Berne Convention, as well as with the antitrust measures of the international intellectual property organisation. Solutions are comparable and correct.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u101	The replicas or the new circle? Mr. Skull, replica, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u102	The replica first. Look, I also, if I just said copyright, we're always talking about copyright and related rights and three collective organisations, so there's no misunderstanding, so let's cut it down, ad1. Ad2, but once again, the minister proved unable to stand by his words. I invited him to tell me who was the one who was illegally defending certain positions against payment, and he did not. I'm gonna end this, I'm gonna say, this argument with him. Ad3, the minister is deceiving when he says that this world will possibly provide a higher standard. Take a look at the situation when the owners and users of 10 units of rights agree. We'd both agree, but the world would say no, 15 units you'll have to pay. That's what you think is theoretically possible. Theoretically, this is possible, but practically this will not happen. This is, I will say, a Latvian language that is not based on knowledge of disputes over the exercise of these rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u103	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u104	It's a replica. Of course he can't do that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u105	Debate, not replica [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u106	This case cannot come at all, as you mentioned, that if two domains are set for 10, then the world determines 11, if two domains are set, there is no world. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u107	Just so we're clear, that wasn't a replica. Because a replica of the replica is not possible, but a debate in which a minister can be included at any time. And now I'm opening a second round of applications, because I can see there's still a few interested people. Please sign up. The first one has the word, Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u108	Thanks again. The substance of the amendments to this Act is precisely Articles 6 and 7. If we support the amendment of the House of Members of the Liberal Democracy, then we have actually done nothing. I am firmly convinced that in six months we will again consider this same law in this National Assembly. Therefore, we will certainly not support the proposed amendments in the New Slovenia Group. But I'd like to add that some of you are talking in your head. With regard to the introduction of the Copyright Council, whether it will be necessary for it to work actively or on the one hand, the authors or the collective organisation and users agree that this world will not have to be used at all in a given case. Let's wait. You too are somehow prejudiced by your colleague Školč, even if this world works, it will always work to the detriment of authors or collective organisations. At least that's how I understood or you're afraid it's gonna be. Let us give the first example through this procedure, if it is necessary to actively engage, and we will see. I am firmly convinced that we cannot continue to talk today about who will bring a short end to this. I am confident that in this case there will be such a solution, of course by the Copyright Council, which will ultimately give satisfaction to both and others, that we will finally untie this unresolved knot once and that there will be no future problems and challenges. I would point out once again, I firmly believe that this is one of the instruments that will only give a greater incentive to the two actors involved to agree on appropriate tariffs before the Copyright Council intervenes. I certainly won't support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u109	Thank you very much. My word, Mrs. Shirco.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u110	This experiment, which you are now implementing with a rather fresh amendment to the copyright and related rights law, is actually very much, not only questionable, but dangerous. Dangerous, by the way, Mr. Minister, is funny when you play the role of the one who is "god and beating" because you have to cut down on behalf of the country with some misplaced model and certainly very exclusive in a field where there is no agreement. As we have seen that arrangements are possible, because of one case where this negotiation has not yet occurred definitively, it is immediately necessary to amend the law, to prove God's hand to the minister, who lays down rules of the game that may be dangerous for future action. By the way, Mr Minister, you name the Council, you determine the members, depending on the proposals, but you are also the ones you can call off, etc. I think that this way, which is a great speciality in my legal system, could be roughly compared, and it could also be applied elsewhere, let's say that, a very harsh comparison is given, you can't agree two in divorce or some other procedure, and we will introduce into the law a Council that will set the rules of the game, for example, a family relationship and settle something. It is true that the country will enter into an intimate one, in some things that should be determined and negotiated and left open. And I admit that I doubt that it will be in the interests of those for whom, within all conventions and rules, it is certainly necessary to work, and these are copyrights. By the way, remember what strong arguments were also made in this space in January, czech, ah these authors, look, they also want to gain their copyright in hotels when their music spreads through radio, television and other waves. See, Minister, one European country that has reached a decision in these days, a judicial decision that also needs to be paid in hotel and other public spaces, especially these accommodations, for copyright. But you, Mr Minister, say there is no problem, because this world of wonder will enter the game only when the agreement is not possible, but at the same time in this article you specify which criteria will be taken into account in tariffs and tariffs. Let us say that this agreement, which will emerge after this experimental court council you are introducing, will bring new criteria that will begin to challenge those which have been established by some agreement. There will be an open circle, other agreements will be broken. And what will be the end of these arrangements? Again in other agreements, this world will play a role because it will reach out to it and set standards such as you, Mr Minister, or someone after you or anyone who wants to see you. For it is clear that, of course, under the cover of an independent world, the country will play a certain role in its regulation. Why am I afraid? Because I have not yet recognized that ministers, with a certain very rare exception, would not ever be in the interest of officials and someone else in the sense that it would be necessary to step forward. Why? Because intellectual work in this Slovenian space is undervalued and understood as earning. In the undertone of your performance so far, that's exactly what it was. These are the earners who make some billions of dollars in some organizations and because they are so important, they can't even agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Scholch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Let us repeat that exercise so that we can be more precise about how this world can provide representatives of these copyrights more than they would have wanted. The minister is right when he says, "If they do, we don't care." What if 10 units don't agree and the others won't be willing to pay 10 units. Will you then say, "No, 10 you demanded too little, 15 you'll have to pay." You promise us that. I don't believe you. But I do not believe you because Mr Mikolić is right when he says that we are afraid that this will not work for the protection of copyright and related rights. Why should I say I don't believe that? We have had two discussions on this subject so far. In both of these discussions, the Minister explicitly put himself in the position of economic associations, explicitly in the position of those who represent the fact that these copyrights or requirements are impossible, too large to be able to speak with these organisations and so on. Thus, for the first time, he proposed compulsory arbitration. When this failed in the National Assembly, it now comes with a world that is, in fact, once again some kind of covert arbitration without all the necessary judicial safeguards. I also doubt this because everything is based on the wrong assumption shared here with the minister by many that it is the same rights on both sides. This is not about the same rights on both sides. There's only one client here. And what a fellow DeSUS says is the question only if he does not try too hard for these rights. But this raises the substantive question of whether this can be sanctioned by State coercion. I don't think so. The answer is, if someone asks too much, it's okay, we won't be playing music anymore. That's a hypothetically possible answer. Even you, if you go to buy something at the store and do not get the price you are willing to pay, because you would like to get it, you will not be able to go to the minister to set you a medium price or a favourable price for you, but you will lose the product you want. That'll be the result. And copyright and related rights and the exercise of these must in some way be understood, I am aware that I am simplifying as property. And that property, on which the profits of the people who do it are based. The world, as it is composed, is, I'll say, a poorly disguised state intervention. You have on this scheme two equal interests, real representatives of these users and representatives of the operators, two - two, and then you have a president to appoint, but I will not say on purpose now, the Intellectual Property Office, which I will say is absolutely important work, and at this point is not as politicised as the other offices, but this position that we are pushing now, and it pushes it into the position of those offices that must be compatible with the ministers. If you remember the debate in the law on how the state administration was made. So if they're compatible with ministers, they have to do what the minister expects them to do. And this minister has always shown two things that he doesn't understand copyright, he doesn't understand the law that covers copyright and related rights, and he's an absolute supporter of those who sell "caffets" and they have appropriately bugged different venues. This has always been demonstrated everywhere. And how to trust that someone there will be determined to act in behalf of those people who are not actually found to be overly beautiful words or to have a basic respect for their profession. That's it. But with those who don't agree with them, we're dealing with sneezing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u114	Somehow, we have forgotten or have not yet said what we believe is the reason why we are dealing with two amendments today, which are trying to convince you members of the coalition that the law, as proposed, is not good. In view of the fact that the law was introduced after a reduced procedure, which means that there was no normal component of a procedure, when the general public should say something about this law, which I believe, I repeat, as I said on the Committee on the Economy, in a perfidious way, brings about a change in the law that literally requires a broader debate. And it wasn't, we didn't give these options to either side, i.e. to collective organisations, or to users on the other side. And the users still understand why they didn't cooperate because they have a protector on one side, that's the minister. However, collective organisations do not have this protector. And they were deprived of one right, one option which they could not put forward, could be limited and emphasized to the Committee on the Economy at a time, but we know what the situation is and what the ratio of power is. That is why we have already met on the committee the issue of these amendments, which, first of all, are broader than proposed, was tabled by DeSUS, Mr Rezman, who has said honestly if the debate does not convince him, it will withdraw the amendments. And he withdrew them before there was a real debate, in my opinion. Because it was only when the LDS took over the amendments as amendments that the Committee was supposed to support. Unfortunately, you probably can't withdraw the amendments first, but you can't give indirect support, and then you can back these amendments later. But it's none of my business, it's Mr. Rezman's business to find out why he did it. The debate, however, has shown what some debaters today represent as the basis for any situation in which both sides can actually negotiate. And it sounded funny when the two MPs said that this law made it possible to negotiate between these actors. In fact, this law does not allow, prevents or leads one party not to agree, because it gives the world solace when it creates a world that someone who does not fit the tariff arrangement simply does not negotiate with the other party, but leaves this decision to the authority, a world which, according to the Minister, is independent because the two members submit or propose to both parties and the third IPR. It's like the Intellectual Property Office isn't part of the Ministry. And sell us what it's going to be like because the President's Office proposes it and eventually forms this body so it won't be biased. According to our opinion, it will be similar to yesterday's hearing the day before about the interview with Minister Bručan, when some were questioned in the media, the directors of public institutions appointed by the Ministry or the Government, as parrots, kept repeating how well the minister was doing, how he was changing the situation, how everything in health is perfect, but it is clear that they are in a position to defend the minister because his employees are directly his employees. Here there is an analogy with the office and therefore we do not think that these are good solutions, that we should leave this to collective organisations and users. And proof that this is so far, the activities of both IBF and ZAMP have been slightly less than SAZAS, which have been found at this time since we last adopted the amendment of the law, a way for them to agree and have adopted most of these agreements. Just because of one case that we think we should have some time at our disposal, the ministry or the government is proposing a change of law, and then Mr Mikolić tells us, let's try it. Yeah, no! First, we must try to enforce a single law, only then do we have grounds to say, but now there was no way to reach this agreement, to use all instruments from mediation and to go to arbitration to change the law, and then to change the law in a way that I said we should actually have a broader debate. We are therefore establishing a world which is subject to powers which, by the logic of things, should not and should not have and would not be able to place any party who submit that the Council will decide on this, in a situation where they do not have legal protection provided, because the Supreme Court will decide at the next stage without the possibility of users or collective organisations to submit further arguments, i.e. additional explanations, facts, explanations, etc., but will be left to the Supreme Court for which the other story is open. We believe that the law, which will change, will not in fact allow and allow this and will, it seems, have to be amended again. And something else that wasn't said today. You want it or you don't want it, these collective organizations depend on the resources they have for their operations. This world will need or will cost any party. What they'll be like, nobody knows today. However, this Council will have a President, it will have members, experts or perhaps external experts will have to cooperate, transport costs, diaries will be covered, all costs will be incurred, and these are the resources that some and usually will have, and, of course, the collective organisation is on the worst side again, because they are materially worse than the other side that they represent, that is, those parts of the economy, and even though these collective organisations are part of the economy, they are easier to choose funds for these arbitrations. This is again something that needlessly complicates this procedure and therefore needlessly requires people to deal with these things that they should actually be aware of and agree on beforehand. For this reason, in the Liberal Democracy, we felt that these two amendments were necessary. It is true, however, that it is normal, since Article 6 is before Article 7, so it was first necessary to cut in Article 6. Mr. Rezman said it was an editorial correction. After all, it's not an editorial correction. It is a deletion of one part of the sentence, but it is bound to Article 7. However, since Article 7 is deleted, we have explained that it is bound by Article 7. As a result, I think that procedurally, this must not be a hindrance. It is true, however, that these problems or procedural derogations were much more on the Committee on the Economy when we spoke like this, without ever respecting a number of procedural needs. So the Liberal Democracy invites you to listen to the amendment of these two articles of the law for these reasons, which I hope to present them with sufficient control.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Rugelj has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I'm almost sorry, but it looks like I'm going to be able to repeat things again, as I read them at the presentation today, and they're also my personal opinion, as far as these LDS amendments are concerned. Let me begin by stressing that these were, at the outset, the amendments of DeSUS to the Home Committee. When DeSUS realized in the debate itself that essentially these amendments were fundamentally changing the law and also the content and importance of the law, he withdrew them and the LDS immediately jumped in and filed them and today we also have them here. It's a normal old thing, but it's right for me to tell you how it was. You've said it a little differently, but I know it came up in a debate. The next thing I would stress, which is also misleading in here, we have heard from a few debaters that a large majority of collective organisations have already reached an agreement. Now I'm going to tell you what this vast majority of collective organisations are like. This is ZAMP and IPF, SAZAS has not concluded it, but SAZAS has a billion-and-a-half budget and also tariffs that are incompatible with IPF and ZAMP, while the others have a couple hundred million. If they have that much. Look, here's the majority of you that you're stressing here. Once again, I will say that far the highest prices and tariffs currently have SAZAS, which does not mean that SAZAS is in some subordinate position here. SASAS will negotiate just as the others did. I believe there will be an agreement. Why he's not here today, I don't know exactly, but I believe he will. And there's something else I'd like to say. All you want is for the rights of authors, for the rights of users, who are also our citizens, and here no one takes any action. I'll tell you something. The author's right, the fundamental right and the constitutional right to determine the price of his work. But it is also the right of the user to decide whether to buy this work or not to buy it for the price the author has set for it. This right is and every user has it. And now I will tell you why it is necessary to reach an agreement if no agreement is reached and the Council decides on the tariff. Look at the case. The user has a TV receiver for which RTV pays the subscription. He's got it to keep him informed that he's listening to reports, watching sports shows, watching commercials, and I don't know what else. That's why he pays the RTV subscription. And then someone would charge him the price "but now you're going to pay so much for this music that we have or you're going to take the TV out." And what can a user do? All he does is take the TV out, but he has a constitutional right to be informed and watch something else on TV than just listen to music. And this is a purely banal case, which shows that I have to reach an agreement in some way that the user has the right to decide whether or not to take it or not to buy it. Just as the author has the right to set his price. When they don't come here together, unfortunately some kind of agreement is needed. And agreements happen. The two agreements were concluded, we have already seen and heard. I think there'll be another deal. But I would like to point out something else that the opposite thing has been joyfully highlighting all the time, the other side has to point out once again, who has read the law, knows how it is drawn up and I will not repeat it, this copyrighted world, I think that everyone has the right and that he will propose his best representatives to this copyrighted world. That is how I believe that this will be an expert body, but I believe also, I do not know whether you have read the law or not, this expert body will also take into account the tariffs that our neighbouring European countries, whose members or parts of us are. And I think that no one will be able to give up on this, but, of course, it is clear from the gross income per capita in our country and elsewhere. This must also be taken into account. And once again, I will remind you to give a little bit more to certain rights of users, to watch, not just certain rights of authors, which, of course, they do have and no one here today denied that they do not have these rights. That's how much I'd have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Skull, do you have a replica? Then I'd give my word to the minister in this round, and then I'll reopen the application. Please sign up. Mr Rugelj has the first word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u118	I will give up the debate in favor of saving time. I think I've said a lot so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I'm sure everyone appreciates that gesture. Mr Rezman has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u120	I'm not gonna be Santa Claus, but I have very little time, so I'm gonna talk cheap. I'd like to say first that I'm aware of the complexity and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the seriousness of copyright and that it is not possible to wave with your hand, but to say, yes, the matter is solved in an easy way. [[...]] Nevertheless, I think that this proposal, which we now have at our disposal, is slightly better than the current situation. That's why I support it. The second thing I want to say is that of course we have three partners, if I simplify, we have an author, we have a collective organization and we have users. If the collective organisation is overpriced, users may resign. But [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Then it's the author's fault, because he's going to faint. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u121	Thank you very much. And Mr. Scholch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u122	As far as this last dilemma is concerned, it is essentially solved by the relationship between authors and their representatives, it is said, collective organisations. And you know that in these organizations many times, because of the various moves, it's also very hot. This marriage doesn't solve it. But I would like to talk about the things that Mr Rugelj is talking about here. Not about what DeSUS has learned, because I have an idea of how knowledge flows in the coalition and how to ensure that it is ultimately voted in accordance with the wishes of the Government. As far as when he was talking about how much someone was paying. When we talked about most of the organisations reaching an agreement, we said exactly what was true: two out of three have concluded. As far as money is concerned, however, it must be said that until the point when the law was tightened, that other types of compensation should also be paid, not only those collected by SAZAS, such as the IPF, if I remember the last amendment of the law in this assembly, it was not possible to collect any money, but then. From this point of view, the debate in the National Assembly merely produced some fruits. But it doesn't even matter that much. Mr Rugelj speaks of the same rights as the author and user. That's what I have to say. It's just not true. Not even in the sense of defining what copyright is, but even less in the sense that the user has the right to buy it or not to buy it. If we were to stay here, dot, then we wouldn't fight at all. If the price were too high, I wouldn't buy it, if I were right, I'd buy it. But this law, Mr Rugelj, introduces the nationalisation of copyright with the help of the Ministry and Coalition, what your party has always fought against. You are not satisfied with the price set, so in one part you nationalize it, knock it down, as you would say in your vocabulary, that the communists stole something from someone, you steal it from the authors and give it to the user. You're, I'll say, some kind of modern Robin Hood. You take him who has, and you give him who doesn't, and you claim that this is a, I'll say, a lawful and just act. Of course, you also have mixed ideas about what a user is. The user can only be a natural person. The company is not a user. And as for how this is resolved with you as a client of RTV, it is quite clear that you don't have to pay anything other than what you pay by the ticket you get along with electricity. And if you're a subscriber of the cable package, you pay the cable operator what you need, and he pays you further. You saved yours. But if you have a business, then you have to separate, even if you do, I don't know, as a natural person, that there's a difference. A company that uses music in its activities to enhance its activity or simply to avoid boredom for its employees is in a different relationship. And here come the collective organisations that try to erase these rights. That's some difference you should understand, but maybe you don't. And there are also major misunderstandings out there, which are so big that they actually interfere with the foundations of your ideology. While you are against nationalisation, at the same time you are implementing it in every possible situation, because you are good people at the same time and you want to be good to everyone and you are Robin Hood.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Rugelj has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. Skull. But believe me, today is the first time I've heard that the inn is not a user. I don't know what it is then? By stressing that, I've told you exactly what that big majority is, ZAMP, IPF, that's your big majority. However, I also told you, even if we are looking at the budget or the current tariffs as they have reached them, both tariffs together are not half the SAZAS tariffs. So we'll have a little sense of what we're talking about. I still say that the most important collective organisation and the largest, both after income and by the number of members, has not yet reached this agreement, that is clear. Now, what's most, whether there's two or one, that's the other thing. I still have to say it here. As well as other users, every natural person at home when paying, as Mr Školč said, some contribution or subscription to television via cable television. Look, cable TV also has to pay SAZAS, don't think he's giving out his pocket anything. Cable TV is, of course, happy to continue charging users and there are users again at the end. As far as those rights are concerned, I have by no means equated them with the copyright and rights of users. I said exactly, the author has the right to determine the price of his work, and the user must have the right to decide whether or not to buy such work at such a price. I think that these are fundamental rights, but fundamentally different, these are fundamental rights that are supposed to be guaranteed to all citizens, but not just one citizen, this is our democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I'm guessing no one wants to discuss it anymore. I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 6. I am putting an amendment to Article 7, although this has already been discussed. Anybody want to talk? Check-in is on. Mr. Bojan Rugelj, would you like to discuss it? You're giving up. Mr. Skull, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u126	I regret that Mr Rugelj is not continuing with the things he is telling her, but, Mr Rugelj, as far as Article 7 is concerned, of course, there has been much already said and all the argument is there. In explanation of this - the inn is of course a person, but it does not get an account because it is a person, but because it has an activity. So much so there won't be any special misunderstanding. If you would remain, Mr Rugelj, in that it is the right of users to buy or disagree, we have discussed this earlier. But of course you think it is possible with this Council, the last time with arbitration, the third time, I don't know what you're going to come across in these rights, with what I call nationalisation, in part, these rights. I do not believe that we will come any closer together, but I suppose that, as Mr Mikolič said, the National Assembly will have this very quickly again on the agenda, either because it will have to formulate an opinion on a possible constitutional dispute, but I do not doubt that there will be a well-formed constitutional dispute that the Constitutional Court will have to eliminate such a solution. I will be very pleased to support all these things, and I will also support this because I see that the Minister is unable or able to explain all these things or to answer the questions that have been raised to him, as regards disqualifications, especially as regards the structured rights that he had in his performance, that the rights of one and the rights of negotiation, which we have not been able to decipher from all sets of different rights yet. Nor did you explain by which convention or by which law or constitution this formulated these two rights, the right of one and the right to negotiate on which you justified this solution. This is a poor journey to a solution based on non-existent, fictitious rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Rugelj, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Well, in here obviously, I don't know if anyone has anything in their ears or sitting on them. I have already said that users pay these services on cable television in some way to these collective organisations. So it's clear. However, I would absolutely condemn this opinion or such a insulting statement by the former Minister of Culture, who now condemns the new Minister that he is not capable of anything. I say that this marriage is good, very good, and the new minister has done what he's doing and he's fixing those things that should have been done a long time ago, and no one has done them. Look, I've already said once that we are more or less users of these services all, if not otherwise, we pay the money via RTV subscription to these authors. Whether the tariffs are appropriate or not will be negotiated by the authors and interested associations themselves. I believe they will, the two organizations are already, why not the third, here I see no obstacles. In particular, I am most pleased, given that we are in Europe, that this is also within the law to take account of these comparable tariffs of comparable neighbouring European countries, but also taking into account our gross income per capita compared to neighbouring countries. I think if we are already in Europe, that far from these tariffs, which rule elsewhere, are somehow comparable, we will not be able to come either. But it is also true that if anyone would eventually want to block these negotiations and blackmail the scene in front of our users, we know who our users are, all our citizens. However, at the end of the day, the Council, which is a completely professional body, whose members are proposed by both collective organisations and an interest association, is equally proposed by the President of the Intellectual Property Office, so that the Council will not be able to decide in any way, taking into account tariffs in the neighbouring countries, on a case-by-case basis, a compensation or tariff. See if anyone here says that this is impossible, or that this law hinders, or whatever, negotiations, this course of course joyfully misleads our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u130	I'm sorry, when the arguments are dropped, it's an insult and a discredit. Look, a few facts first. Specifically, the Berne Convention in Article 17 as well as the CIZAK Charter recognises interference with exclusive rights where appropriate and does not exclude it. And that's practice. Unfortunately, we don't have this practice. Why don't we have one? Because we've only had this look-see arrangement for a few years. Neither ZAMP nor SAZAS have been able to agree since 2004, when the law entered into force, since it had previously set up an IPR Office. Since then, nothing has been agreed on and so this solution, once again, will be legal practice in Slovenia, when the authors will also start court proceedings and we will have practice, tradition, then it will probably be easier. We have new solutions and that is why this is also allowed, which is recognised by all international organisations.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Would you like to discuss it, Mr. Skolch? I'm opening the application. Mr. Skull, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u132	Whoever's hurting someone here would be worth talking about. I asked the Minister to say where the codified right of one is and where the codified right of negotiation is as the basis on which he built this European comparable solution. This is the second convention that does not talk about it. I also said in my performance that this is a possible solution, so we have no doubt about it. I also said that this solution, which is now, is also possible in European and global practice, that it is not this kind of arbitration. And what we object to is that this solution is superfluous. We did not say that it is totally inappropriate, but it is exorbitant because we believe that you will act according to all knowledge of the problem, according to your viewpoint in this law. That is also why we oppose it. If that were possible, we know. But that you are not able to substantiate these creations, it still stands because you have not done so.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Obviously no one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the meeting's timetable tomorrow in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 10th item of the agenda or at the latest at 18.25. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 4 p.m. on the 1st item of the agenda, with questions from Members of Parliament and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u134	Dear Members and honourable Members, distinguished guests, ministers! We continue the meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 25 Members and Members of Parliament in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members in accordance with Article 244, Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. First, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food will answer the questions raised at the 22nd meeting of the assembly, to which they did not respond due to their absence. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of Parliament's ruling coalition will be answered by the President of the Government on Monday, 18 December 2006, at 3 p.m. Members who have submitted two questions will ask the second question when all the Members who have been registered ask one question. Members shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional, new question. I ask Members and Members to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. On this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, Minister of Defence, Mr Karl Erjavec, from 17:00 on. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral response; in this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On the bench, you have received a review of the questions and initiatives that have not yet been answered in the course of business. At the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly, members of Dara Lavtijar Bebler and Mojca Kucler Dolinar and Members of Miran Potrč, Rudolf Petan, Matjaž Han, mag. Tomaž Štebe, Srečko Friend and Samo Bevk asked questions from the Minister of the Interior, Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister of Transport, Mag. Mr Janez Bozič, Minister for Defence, Mr Karl Erjavac, and Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mrs Marija Lukačič. Since the Minister and Ministers were not present at the meeting, Members and Members requested an oral response to the next meeting of the assembly. I therefore give the floor first to ministers and ministers to answer the questions. In this regard, I inform you that Ambassador Lovtišar Bebler has withdrawn from her oral request and that the Minister of the Interior will answer the question in writing. Minister of the Interior, Mr Dragutin Mate, will answer Mr Miran Potrč's question about the police's work in preventing and suppressing crime. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Member, for the question I received at the previous session. Of course, I would also like to apologize, as I did at the time, that I was not present at that meeting. It was precisely that day that the Council of Ministers in Brussels decided to enter the Schengen Information Base and it was not necessary for me to be at that meeting, so unfortunately I could not attend the meeting in Parliament. If I had answered the question raised to me, I would, of course, like to say that the Ministry of the Interior and the police, in accordance with their powers, regularly monitor developments in the field of public security throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, take decisions to ensure the necessary public order and peace in all areas of the country. This, of course, strictly takes into account certain principles that apply in the police approach to the resolution of issues. This is one of the basic principles, it is a proportionate use of force, which still ensures the necessary public order and peace, which must be ensured throughout the country. If I touch on certain points that have been specifically exposed, in particular in the oral explanation of the matter, which is slightly different from that which has been mediated in writing. I must say that it is very difficult to link some of the events that have been described here: the case of Ivančna Gorica, the case of Izola, the case of Jesenica, these matters do not have any common denominator. However, I must say that, in all cases, the police have tried to ensure such a degree of public order and peace by means of the means at their disposal, that other individuals have not been threatened and that there have been no worse consequences. However, we certainly cannot agree with certain claims or suggestions that the police, or anyone else in the Ministry of the Interior, should be used in any way to resolve electoral issues and other matters. As we know, in Isola we have witnessed some gatherings of people allowed under our Constitution, also associated with other articles of the Constitution, which speak of freedom of expression. However, these actions have not been reported, as our regulations foresee, so in all cases, not only in this case, we have taken action by issuing payment orders, against certain other acts that have occurred and that have been examined by the police and some are still being examined, criminal charges will also be brought. The speech itself also presented the fact that hate speech is allowed in the country and that this is the reason for the consequences that we have witnessed. Of course, I would also like to mention some other facts that have not been mentioned. I was extremely negatively surprised that one of the members of the National Assembly, through the media, publicly invited people to a convention, to roadblocks, even organised civil protection structures and distributed free food to the people who came to such an assembly. That's extremely unacceptable. The police will deal with these acts, qualify them, and act, regardless of what kind of work someone is doing. This has happened so that we will not guess too much in Kočev and this was done by the mayor of Kočevje municipality, which is also a Member of the Parliament, of course. It's a hate speech. We can all agree on that. And to encourage what was happening directly in a particular area of Slovenia. And this is just as unacceptable as everything else that you mentioned, Mr Member, that it is an hate speech. It also took action against all those who undeclared the conventions anywhere in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u136	Thank you. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, first of all, I don't agree, and I'm also surprised that you're saying that many of the events that I've described, but I haven't described them all, they don't have a common denominator. I think the police should think about it, and so should the government. That the common denominator may be a lack of trust in authority. The fact that arbitrary, illegal practices can also occur in an increasing number of cases. If - thank God, this moment did not increase - this would also mean elements of public security risk in a different way than when it comes to completely individual phenomena. And I believe that you know that these cases are quite significant, and that you know that also the police warn that many times the situation in the police, the relations between them are not such as to ensure the full safety and fulfilment of all tasks. They therefore expect that the Minister of the Interior and that the remaining ministers in the Government will be more attentive to warnings that come from their kind, but not to politicise things the way some cases have tried. And I would ask you the same thing, expect you to be much more careful in assessing your actions, because you do not have the right to do so, neither does our Member. I have a magnetogram of his statements on the radio. I don't know if you have them. In these statements, there is no other invitation than for people to gather to ensure that the Government, the current Government, you, Minister, and President Janša have the same attitude towards all municipalities in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u138	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I understood it better than a comment, not as an additional question, but I will answer it anyway. I am very serious about all the warnings I receive from the system, I am probably one of the few ministers in the field of internal affairs, who has so far introduced instead of a month and a half so that any worker can come to me and can express his problems or problems that he feels in the system, and then we try to solve them. Of course, all the individual problems that individuals have cannot be solved or not have all the basics in order to be able to do so, but I am very closely monitoring what is happening in the system. Very carefully, we pay great attention to improving relations within the police, but we also need to know that some things have been built for several years, even a decade, and have led to a certain point that could later cause some problems. Example: The abandonment of police departments in the territory of Slovenia somewhat over 50 police departments was abandoned in 1996, not last year, not before last year, nor in 2003, and many, in a wide range of local environments, resulting in certain problems and complications that we are now facing. The police have already tried some testing of the security environments as we have had and as we have known them in the past to regain a police officer working in the field, working in the field and in the community, as we call it today, and, of course, we continue to do so. Our goal is to bring the police back into the community and work with the community, but not to have them somehow closed at the desks and to work in office. This is a process that cannot be changed in half a year, it is a long process because for so many years and so many years the system has been built in a different way; and, of course, here we now have the consequences that we are facing. Regarding politicisation, which has also been mentioned, I must make it very clear that we do not politicise the police. I have no intention of politicising the police at any time and the police must act as an expert body in accordance with their legal powers. That's all the police are expected to do. However, any politicisation is completely redundant and could even be seen vice versa, when someone professionally fails to meet the criteria, he is looking for another job, for which he is more suitable, trying to show it in any way as some kind of political discredit. I don't know what it is, because in the police department, everyone's just experts and if everyone's working politically within the system so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u140	Mr. Potts, would you like to propose a debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary! It is our interest to ensure that we can normally and effectively carry out our function so that the Slovenian Police, which is in its history and even today, thank God, can do a lot of good, stay and be a highly professional, independent, independent institution, of course, with the political orientations that the Minister has for his work. And I hope that not only on the basis of your questions, but on the basis of the answers that you still owe to the Commission for Public Administration and to internal policy on my request for a survey that has not yet been carried out, we can hold a thorough debate. I think we better do it then. For this reason, I will not propose a special debate under Article 246 today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u142	This is an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Potch. You took this opportunity to argue when you knew it wasn't according to the Rules of Procedure. I hope it was the last time. Mr. Minister of Transport, mag. Janez Bozič will answer Mr Rudolph Petan's question about the reasons for taking pictures of trains. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Well-known Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Dear Mr Rudolf Petan. Graphites are a major problem throughout Europe, not only on trains but also on other surfaces and there are more each year. No one approves of this work, but even less so. We are all aware of this, including the employees of the Slovenian Railway Holding, because the vehicles in the passengers encourage different feelings, in most cases they are discomfort and resistance. The prevention of these activities is extremely difficult. The protection of railway vehicles at stations where they are kept at night would be linked to high costs, as for effective surveillance they should build fences around stationary surfaces, install cameras and hire security guards. Some railways have given up and taken them as part of a subculture because of the high cost of fighting graffiti. For Holding Slovenian Railways this does not apply, so graphite within the options are consistently removed and will also be in the future. However, the removal of graffiti from passenger suits is associated with high costs and the loss of already too few vehicles from use. Cleaning one suit of modern electric train Desiro costs about 200,000 tolars. However, when cleaned, injuries often occur, which means additional costs and additional vehicle loss. In order not to clean additionally damaged vehicles, as well as because of the necessity of operating vehicles which cannot be exempted from operation, they shall try several times in particular the markings on trains and wagons which must be clearly visible due to the rules. It is the identification of the vehicle number, the basic technical data and the final inspection or repair data. Any removal of graffiti is associated with a multi-day decommissioning of the vehicle, but is not always feasible. I, too, am disturbed by this so-called urban art for some people, and it is fortunate that trains are recorded from the outside, so that passengers can still feel relatively comfortable and safe inside. Mr Petan, I'm sorry I couldn't give you the answer. I am deeply convinced, however, that for passengers the quality of vehicles is much more disruptive than their external appearance. Responsible in Holding Slovenian Railways are working both to remove graffiti and to improve the quality of transport, including by purchasing new vehicles that are successfully arriving in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u144	Thank you. Would you like, Mr. Petan, to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. So this is happening at a time when railways are fighting for their existence, so to speak, when they have huge losses that don't go into billions, but into tens of billions, we're talking about a series of tens of billions. And I'm sure the railroads fight for every passenger. But such trains, which look like, forgive the expression, like dead carriages, which are painted with gray, black, white, which is terrible, I can tell you that they directly reject passengers; also those who are potential passengers. At first it was only on old compositions, so-called lumps, but now I see that it is already on the new Siemens trains, which are not even a year old. I got a whole bunch of answers to my question last time, and I'll read something later if it's time. And I would also say that this kind of graphing takes a lot of color and a lot of time. You yourself said it would only take a few days to clean. Yeah, how could they paint them?Oh, my God! It's probably even more late that they didn't paint the glass and the door, so they had to protect it, which means a lot of time. That is to say, it is likely that even someone is careful not to disturb them. That's the problem, not just if some graffiti were made, but it's painted all but the roof. But the colors are terrible; if at least the flowers were drawn, you might understand. This is the destruction of property that goes into billions! If the railroads were to bathe in money, I'd understand that, but I just don't understand it. However, so that I will not be reminded later by the President, I will say that I will not ask for a debate, but I will do it and I will take this time when we will have a debate next week on rail transport. And I ask that then the chairman not take my word if this is not the subject of discussion. It is the subject of debate, if we give railways, I don't know, half a billion Euros of additional funds, then we need to talk about this, too, so that these assets are not destroyed. But what I got might be sent to the minister by e-mail, just like I got myself to see that it's a serious problem, that it's not my idea of some graffiti.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u146	Of course, the Member cannot reserve how the President will then act when you discuss railways. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u147	Thank you very much for the additional clarification and the arguments that have come out, I can say, from what justifiable estimates, which are the reality of this world today. I will once again call on the Slovenian Railways' leadership to take more concrete measures to prevent what it can prevent. I find it difficult to estimate how long it takes for those who paint trains in this way or graffiti, but I am sure that they can contribute with tighter supervision. The debate in the National Assembly on the Rail Transport Act will also provide some answers, as representatives of the Slovenian Railways will also be present, which will be able to explain in concrete terms why this is happening on such a large scale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u148	Thank you. Mr Minister, you also owe an answer to Mr Matjaž Han's question about the state of the rail system. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u149	Thank you very much for your words, as well as for Mr Matjaž Han's question. On the question of how the Government will respect the referendum will of the people, expressed in January 2003, given that the amendment of the Railways Act wants to organise Slovenian Railways as a single undertaking; and whether you can ensure that by adopting this novel Slovenia will not violate the European acquis and may therefore find itself in proceedings before the European Commission or even the European Court of Justice, it would explain the following. The Law on Referendum and Human Initiative regulates matters relating to the first part of your question. The third paragraph of Article 25 of this Law states that one year after the referendum, the National Assembly cannot adopt a law contrary to the outcome of the referendum. The National Assembly cannot adopt a law contrary to the outcome of the referendum, nor can it repeat the referendum on the same issue, which itself answers part of this question raised. In the second part of the question, I can answer that the consolidated text of the Council Directive of 29 July 1991 on the development of Community railways, which includes Directive 2001/12/EC of 26 February 2001 and then Directive 2003/51/EC of 29 April 2004 and the Act on the conditions of accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, Slovenia, the Slovak Republic and the adjustments to the Treaties on which the European Union is founded. In section 6 of the Resolution on the management of transport infrastructure, Article 6 states: Point 1 - Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure the production and publication of separate performance and balance sheets on the one hand, the employment of railway undertakings associated with their transport services and, on the other hand, employment related to the management of railway infrastructure. Public funds allocated to one of these two areas of activity shall not be transferred to another area of activity. Accounting for these two areas of activity reflects such a prohibition. 2nd point - Member States may also provide that such a decision requires organisational division within one undertaking or that the infrastructure is carried out by a separate entity. 3. point 3 - Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that, for fair and equitable access to railway infrastructure, the decisive functions referred to in the so-called Annex 2 are transferred to bodies or undertakings which do not provide transport services themselves. Notwithstanding the organisational structures, it is necessary to demonstrate that this objective has been achieved, but Member States may bring the collection of supplies and responsibility for the management of railway infrastructure, such as investment, maintenance and financing, to railway undertakings or any other body. The application of paragraph 3 shall be in accordance with the 40.b. report of the Commission to be submitted by 15 March 2006 at the latest. On the basis of this text, we have drawn up a proposal for a law on rail transport, which I hope will also be at the earliest possible time at the hearing in the National Assembly. We have separated from a single railway undertaking what these Articles require of Annex 2, a list of essential functions, [[Incomprehensible.]] 6-3, preparation and decision on the issue of licences to railway undertakings, including the granting of individual licences. Then the decision on the allocation of train paths, including the definition and assessment of availability and the allocation of individual train paths. Then the decision to charge the use of infrastructure. Finally, monitoring, compliance with public service obligations in the provision of certain services and legally required that it maintain separate accounting records and publish separate performance reports. In the second part of the question you are asking how I assess the work of the Slovenian Railway Holding Administration and the Supervisory Board over the past two years, and also when it comes to information about the possible awards of members of the Slovenian Railway Holding Board and the content and awards of members of the Supervisory Board. The management of the Holding of Slovenian Railways has certainly had good intentions to create operating conditions that would ensure the company's business, but that its external operating conditions were both on the income and on the expenditure side, and they are uninterrupted and unfavorable. This also led to the resignation of her CEO, for whom a new call is now being made in the daily newspaper. The main task of the Supervisory Board is to ensure the legitimate functioning of the company. And this job, as far as I can tell, is doing well. This is an assessment that I can also confirm. The holding, however, paid the meetings to the President, a member of the Supervisory Board in accordance with the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and other recipients of the members of the Supervisory Boards. The remuneration of the members of the board during the period for which you are asking has not been paid.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u150	Thank you. Mr. Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, respectable colleagues! I'd like to make some comments. Otherwise, with the answer given to me by the distinguished minister, I cannot be satisfied because whatever is going on in Slovenian railways right now I can calmly say that it is going to that section "not true, but it is". Firstly, I would say that Slovenian railways have not had the first driver for three months. I believe and I know that the first call was unsuccessful, but this train going down probably doesn't want any driver seated. If I comment that in this mandate the Government has submitted to the National Assembly of Guarantee Laws only in the field of railways for a good 107 billion tolls of credit, if we include Darsa's guarantee loans here, we can assess that the state is in real debt. Unfortunately, this is, I'll say, one of the key pillars of the Ministry of Transport. However, not to say that the National Assembly puts in place so much overnight that it has to adopt the amendment to the Rail Transport Act, because the Government has missed these two years and has not put the law into practice in time and the coalition has rejected our proposal today, a proposal by my colleague Miran Potrč to stop the horses and to talk about this problem, I think it is unfair. The second time Mr Barrot was visiting Slovenia, he said clearly and loudly that the single company was not in line with the European directives. You, too, Mr. Secretary, know that very well. These are mainly partial and some of the interests of individuals on Slovenian railways, especially when talking about trade unions. So I ask you to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u152	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u153	Thank you so much for the extra questions. I'd say very briefly. The Rail Traffic Act was indeed a long time ago. This is a very difficult subject, and I must openly deny that Commissioner Jacques Barrot said that such an organisation as we propose in the law already in the procedure of the National Assembly, therefore waiting for the type of treatment, is inconsistent with European directives. That's just not true. I will also bring you directives from the European Council, which speak very clearly about what I have already mentioned in the introduction. Therefore, the Directive requires the separation of accounting records, not that the operator and the operator cannot be in the same company. Requires separation of records, separation of financial statements and business in a separate story. I wouldn't judge that the law has been in coordination for a really long time. However, even in the past, when European directives were put in place, there have been no changes to this law and no harmonisation with European directives. I'm kind of happy there's gonna be a hearing. I hope that even before the adoption of this law, which must actually be under the roof as soon as possible, because it is easy for Slovenia to open up the transport services market with 1.1.2007. Therefore, allow other operators, which is the European Union's greatest observation, that Slovenia must ensure the implementation of this Directive. So much for my work. However, I think that there will probably be a lot of words and explanations at the time of the debate on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr. Minister, another answer is your duty, Mag. Tomaž Štebe raised a question about the condition or restoration of state roads at the time of transfer to local communities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member, mag. Tomaž Strabe. According to the Public Roads Act, the roads are those that replace part of the state road through the settlement. Roads are in fact paved roads of state roads passing through settlements on new routes at their edge and outside settlements. As provided for by the Public Roads Act, substituted parts of state roads run through the settlement shall be abandoned as state roads and transferred between municipal or non-tegrated roads. The decision to change the categorisation of State roads and replaced parts of state roads maintained as transport areas and the transfer of substituted parts of state roads between municipal or non-categories shall be adopted by the Government by a regulation. Amendments and transfers shall be carried out in accordance with the Public Roads Act once a year following the coordination between the interests of the State and the municipality and taking into account the criteria for categorisation of public roads. By transferring substituted parts of state roads between municipal roads, these parts of roads are transferred to the original jurisdiction of local communities. By handing over the road, the traffic takes over the state road by remote or regional traffic and the replaced road through the village by local traffic. The municipality can arrange these traffic surfaces or rearrange them according to its needs. Traffic arrangements on these traffic areas are the jurisdiction of the municipality, which can determine traffic arrangements on its own, of course in accordance with the provisions of the Road Safety Act. On the construction or construction of a state-of-the-art road, the simultaneous investment in both the construction of the road and the renovation of the replacement road is not justified. After the construction of the road, the replaced transport area will become the property and competence of the local community and will be able in particular to have a completely new transport role in the settlements in line with the needs of the local community. Even under the Public Roads Act, the State is only responsible for the construction and maintenance of state roads. Local communities, however, build and maintain municipal roads as provided for by the Law on Local Self-Government. There is no doubt, however, that the State is compulsory. State roads need to be maintained and restored in such a way that, taking into account their importance for the integration of transport in space, the cost-effectiveness of maintenance and regulations, which set the level, standards and maintenance standards, they allow for the safe decoupling of transport. Let me stress that, at the Ministry of Transport, we are working to ensure that state roads that are the subject of the transfer between municipal roads are in the best possible condition. In doing so, we can find that the funds provided in the 2007 and 2008 budget of the Republic of Slovenia allow for adequate arrangements in the part of state roads through settlements that are transferred between municipal roads after the construction of the railways. The latter is also true in the case of a state road that is now passing through the village Mengeš and will be replaced by the transport road of the village Mengeš. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u156	Thank you. Mr. Stab, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. But the point was: Why not rebuild the state road that passes between local roads after the construction of the roadways? For the restoration of state roads before the construction of the road is a major problem. For the first time, closures, rerouting or construction in the presence of transit transport, resulting in major difficulties and also higher costs for the reconstruction of such state roads. If we change the approach and the post-festum, after the construction of the road under the same criteria before the state, now the local road, we avoid all the problems of building with the existing transit traffic that is thus diverted. It is about whether such an approach can be introduced and, of course, to facilitate such renovations and also to reduce the costs of such renovations. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u158	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u159	Thank you very much for the additional question or comment. I can say that I have answered why and how roads come on the occasion when new transport infrastructure is built and there is a gain that is somehow under the intervention of the Ministry of Transport or the Directorate for Roads in the case of state roads and in the case of Darsa motorways. And I don't think there's any need to repeat these reasons. What I'd say. The problem is, it's always money. If the state had enough money, it would build new infrastructure, restore what it gives to the municipalities. We'd all be happy and happy. Unfortunately, the need to modernise the state road network is significantly greater than the resources available. You are well aware that we have planned or planned significantly more money for this purpose for the 2007 and 2008 budget. Therefore, in some ways we are also solving the most pressing problems that are certain and remain. But here I expect more patience. Of course, I would also point out on this occasion the second part of the story, when the congregations gain a new acquisition, or a new public road, or even a highway, they do not want to take over the state road, which in some way became a municipal road. We have cases like this. In short, it's a rather complicated relationship between the state and the municipalities. I hope that, over the coming years, more money will come from the state treasury for the purpose of modernising the road network, a state road network that is 6,000 kilometres long. And of this, we estimate that almost 50% of experts have been destroyed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u160	Thank you. Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister of Defence, will now answer the question of the Friend's Meeting regarding military housing in Postojna. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u161	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament and the rest of the House! Member Lucky Friend was asking: How many military apartments are still empty in the area of Postojna? How does the ministry plan to rationalise reconstruction funds, and how to settle soldiers in suitable apartments to reduce travel costs? I am giving the next answer to this question, namely. The needs for military housing are defined according to the perspective of the establishment of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the units throughout the country and, of course, the available accommodation, operational, storage and other military infrastructure. On this basis, programmes have also been developed to adapt or restore military infrastructure. Let me say that the perspective was determined on the basis of the new needs created by the professionalisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces and also on the basis of the involvement of the Slovenian Armed Forces and Slovenia in NATO. Let me say that the perspective was determined on the basis of the new needs created by the professionalisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces and also on the basis of the involvement of the Slovenian Armed Forces and Slovenia in NATO. Let me say that the military infrastructure taken from the former Yugoslav People's Defence has been fully adapted to the recruitment system and defence needs of the former State. Let me answer that in the Municipality of Postojna we have empty 89 military apartments and there is also a programme to restore 60 apartments by 2008. On the question of why this has not been done before, the reasons are that the perspective of the Slovenian Armed Forces facilities has not been established in relation to all these changes, as I mentioned, the professionalisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the membership in relation to NATO, which establishes the concept of collective defence and other defence needs for the defence of our country. With regard to the question of how to settle soldiers in suitable apartments in order to reduce travel costs, let me say that under the existing rules on the reimbursement of transport costs to work in the public sector and also in force in the Slovenian Army, it is not envisaged that employees who would refuse to work would not be charged transport costs. This applies both in public administration and in the Slovenian Army. However, let me say that we have also applied to members of the Slovenian Armed Forces all the solutions adopted in the public sector to rationalise this type of cost.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u162	Thank you. Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I believe in the well-intentioned response of the distinguished minister, but this problem is not only present in Postojna. Free apartments are all over Slovenia. These apartments are falling apart, Your Honor, they're messy and ugly in urban areas. While young people do not have the opportunity to get housing, these apartments remain unoccupied. 150,000 apartments in Slovenia are missing. And we know it's hard for young people to find their first job. They also find it difficult to find a permanent working relationship, which is a condition for renting credit so that they can solve their housing problem. I welcome young people to the bleachers! And, of course, it is so much more irresponsible that the National Assembly has free housing, that the Ministry of Defence has free housing and probably some other ministry. The interior ministry could also find an apartment. These housing capacities, if we have already decided, will soon pass away from what we are independent of, to be neglected and left to decay, some young families could be given non-commercial rents or even free of charge until the real need for employment is revealed. On the other hand, we see the enormous costs that ministries have for driving from other places to those places where capacity is available. It's an example of Postojna. He's five in one car a day from Murska Sobota, and everyone gets paid travel expenses. That is why, Mr. Secretary, I would like a more precise answer: How many of these apartments are available in Slovenia? What is the cost of this, and why is it not decided by the Government in a way that is acceptable to all society for young people to rent these apartments at non-commercial prices, even for indefinite time and for young people? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u165	Thank you for this complementary question or opinion, a comment. I fully agree with you that it is irrational and unacceptable that in the 15 years these apartments are still empty and do not serve their purpose. However, if you have listened well to me, let me say that for a long time the prospects of individual military infrastructure have not been determined. I must say that since I am Minister of Defence, that is, since December 2004, we have immediately prepared a programme for the renovation of dwellings, namely those dwellings that are perspective for the Slovenian Army. This means that we have troops there, a command that we can settle with soldiers or officers. Let me say that at the same time there is also a programme for the sale of these apartments and also a programme for giving certain apartments to municipalities free of charge. Let me tell you, you asked for a concrete case, for the municipality that I signed an agreement last year with which we gave four apartments to the Municipality of Postojna in the framework of an agreement we have on the use of the Poček range and that we are also preparing a contract for three such apartments. While the remaining 60 apartments are promising and will be restored by 2008. In this year 10, in the following year 20 and in 2008 another 30 of these dwellings. And that is how we introduce politics in all those congregations where we have such service apartments. However, let me say that the property of the Ministry of Defence includes not only apartments but also other properties such as the home of JLA and other properties. In this regard, we also agree with individual municipalities to transfer these facilities to their property, in order to carry out a cultural or library activity. But it is true that these transfers are complicated because we have very rigid legislation. The Minister of Public Administration is preparing a new Law on the availability of state property, where it will be possible for the State to transfer those properties for which it has no interest to the local community, which can be more rational with these facilities.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u166	Thank you. Would you like to suggest a debate? Here you go, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In line with Article 246 I would really like to propose that the National Assembly discuss this, because the state is not only the bad owner in this area. The state is at all, I believe in your well-intentioned, respected minister. I believe in these words you have spoken, but there are still so many and so many open questions in this area. Apartments are empty, decaying, and are cost-losing every year. I see no reason to make an apology for the irresponsible conduct of a state that destroys state property. That is why I would like a general discussion on this subject. Because I know that this same problem is also a free home in the National Assembly and also in the Ministry of the Interior. Maybe there's some other department in the department that's free of charge. The fact is that the country can, with a good gesture, save this thing in one of the afternoons, not the afternoons, afternoons. We would have spent only an hour here in the National Assembly, and this problem would have been solved, and young people would have been so much more satisfied. I therefore propose a general debate on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u168	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Srecko Friends to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Defence to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mrs Marija Lukačič, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, will now answer the question of Mojce Kucler Dolinar on initiatives to abolish compulsory membership in the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u169	Thank you for your word. Thank you for the question relating to the mandatory membership of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia. The new organisation of agriculture has been exposed to economic and political changes since 1990. Some institutions have been shut down. Others were also established by the Agricultural-land chamber of Slovenia. I estimate that the law has a number of shortcomings that need to be addressed as soon as possible. Among these, I consider, first of all, the classification of small farmers as mandatory members, which are by no means part of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Therefore, the coalition has committed itself to raising the level of cadastral income to be achieved by natural persons for compulsory membership in the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. In this respect, an amendment to the Law on the Chamber is also being prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u170	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mrs. Kucler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u171	Not as many additions as I would like to express my satisfaction with the thinking of the Lady, the distinguished Minister of Lukačičeva, and I would like to see these changes come about as soon as possible and also to address them in this assembly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u172	Thank you. Madam Minister, there is still a question to be answered by Mr Sam Bevk on the issue of the suppression of plant pests. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u173	Thank you, too, for this issue, which concerns the prevention of the excessive reproduction of a Polish May bug. The damage caused by the cucumbers of the Polish May bug is included in the damage caused by natural disasters. Thus, in 2006, 136 victims were granted aid to remedy the consequences in 2006 and 34 million tolars. The damage is not yet known for 2006. The Ministry has put in place a programme to prevent the excessive reproduction of cucumbers in the Polish May bug. And for his execution, the government has devoted 101 million tolars. Farmers implementing the measures may have requested reimbursement of funds for the implementation of the measures. Thus, 109 applications were submitted and only 48 million tolars were used from the approved 101 million tolars. We know that 2007 is the so-called bug year. When the bugs grow up in May and the females lay eggs in the ground under the grassy rubble. Because of this biological phase, there will be no damage to the grass, but it will be on the leaves of the trees. In accordance with good agricultural practice, we are therefore planning an organised repression of this pest, which requires the provision of an appropriate legal basis. To this end, an amendment to the Plant Health Act to be submitted to the Government procedure in January 2007 is being prepared. With regard to the issue of organic food production, the Ministry is already supporting this programme with expenditure and can include all interested farmers.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u174	Thank you. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u175	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I thank the Minister for her answer. I think that's a serious problem. In 2005 alone, 800 hectares of grasslands in our area were destroyed as a result of the May bug. This problem also extends to an area outside the Idrija municipality against Logatco, Ljubljana. In some other areas of Slovenia, it is already detected. More problematicly, only 48 million of the 101 million available to address this problem have been used. I think it's also because farmers didn't know they could be eligible for these funds and they didn't want to invest in these measures. Because these are not as small measures as they appear at first sight. In fact, we know exactly what the natural cycle of development of the May bug is. I think that this, so to speak, should be adapted to the timetable for appropriate professional services at the Ministry and at the Government itself, as certain measures are being taken. For there have been some inadmissible delays. Such farmers did not know whether they would really be entitled to these funds or not. Therefore, it would be wise to consider whether these 50 million Tolars would also be devoted to this systematic suppression of the May bug, but not just to repair the damage that has already occurred, as is the case today? With regard to the economy of agriculture, I would also say that in fact Slovenia has the worst situation of EKO surfaces in Slovenia, because despite 1,700 EKO farms are very few on the market. I think that a country with some systematic plan could also encourage this as well as those areas that are affected.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u176	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u177	I agree with your proposal that a difference of funds that have not been spent should be used as a preventive measure for the following year. However, I must say that the law will be on the parliamentary benches at the beginning of next year, because we will determine the conditions and modalities of this preventive action and you will have the opportunity to participate. As for organic production, I fully agree with your initiative. In Slovenia we have 4% of all productions, organic production compared to Austria 8% of this production. I said that we are providing spending aid, very high aid per hectare to all those organic farmers who want to deal with this type of production. We also have a national strategic organic production plan, which we have prepared and endorsed in Brussels. In accordance with this plan, we will be conducting organic production for the next seven years.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u178	Thank you. These were questions from the previous session. We are moving on to the first round of new issues for Members and Members. Mrs Majda Shirca will ask the Minister of Culture a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Vasko Simoniti, you would like to point out that the situation in the field of film is also good, thanks to you, in fact, every day is better. Otherwise, the question is: What good is it that 14 days before the end of the year Slovenian filmmakers do not know what they will do in January or 2007? The key people who have been appointed by you, Mr Minister, who decide on film production, have rejected all projects and decisions already adopted that have been confirmed and obtained in the public call process. They make up new, completely unrealistic calls, reject distasteful ones, and dig a fatal grave for a Slovenian film. But it's not what I want to ask you. It is also a conflict of interest in deciding on the distribution of budget money in the field of film. Mr Stane Malčič, formerly a member, later president of the Supervisory Board, who is currently also the president or deputy to the outgoing director of the Film Fund, agreed on the subsequent investment and rehabilitation of the film in which he participated. It's about years ago a film by Mokus, producer of Pegasus d.o.o., received 20 million tolars of funds. Moreover, with various illegal exercises, the Supervisory Board wanted to add 37 million to this film and more. You, Mr. Minister, have added an additional 5 million to this producer from your reserve. However, the case is not disputed if you did not participate in the decision-making or filming of this film by as many as two members of the Supervisory Board of the Film Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, one as a screenwriter, the other as an organiser, as a photographer and as a final accountant of the film. One is today a member of the Supervisory Board which decides on the financing, the other president of the Supervisory Board, even the Deputy Repulsive Director and even the adviser to RTV, and perhaps another multiple official. What I'm interested in, Mr. Secretary, is: How do you view such a conflict of interest? How do you allow such obvious personal interest? And are you or will you refer this case to the anti-corruption commission? Will you act on the suspicion of customerism? And have you ever acted in such a clear violation of ethical and legal standards? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u180	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u181	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as a long-standing political worker and an official of a number of forums, the question we have received today at the Ministry is probably quite different from the one you have put up now. But I'm not surprised at her move because she keeps saying the same thing over and over again. However, I will try to answer about her question as follows. So there was no conflict of interest. At least I'm not aware of that. Because, to my knowledge, the Supervisory Board of the Film Fund in its work does not affect the content and evaluation of individual film projects, but works in accordance with positive legislation. All decisions of the Supervisory Board of the Film Fund shall be adopted in accordance with its Rules of Procedure and shall be thus legal and legitimate. The Supervisory Board of the Film Fund of projects which have arrived at the call or the call for proposals or does not assess a particular part. This is done by certain expert program commissions. The work of the final evaluation awarded to the individual project shall also be decided by the Director of the Fund. Certainly, the film you were talking about was decided by those who were before Mr Malčič in the position of director, not of course Mr Malčič, who is today also acting as director of the Film Fund. As to whether this is morally justified or controversial or any conflict with good practices, so to speak, the question that you can address to the Anti-Corruption Commission, with which you have good experience, and which we have also spoken publicly about when you interpret against me, where your ethical behaviour has proved very clear and public. It is right that you express your concern that things that are morally challenged come into play and that they are discussed. Last but not least, this is what your case is talking about, very clearly, not least we can remember the man who forged the diploma years ago, but he was also a member of a party. By falsifying a diploma or, of course, by means of political levers, increasing your own budget, of course, is unworthy. It is logical that I will be very careful and considerate of this problem insofar as there has been a conflict of interest and certain ethical misdemeanours, so to speak, but at this point I am informed that these and such ethical violations have not occurred in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u182	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u183	I have given you a clear question: What happens to the film that at the end of the year the program is null and void, is it not? I told you that the preparations for filmmaking took a long time to define the programme and capacity of Vib film and that it is therefore unacceptable to make decisions such as those of the current supervisory board and v.d. The director and consequently, which you are also responsible for, is doing damage to Slovenian film. Today's decisions, you say the decisions of the expert commission are merodic. Yesterday you claimed that they were decided by the Governing Council, which of course is true. The Supervisory Board decided that it had decided nothing and called for a new call in 14 days in mid-December that could not be implemented by the end of the year. Perhaps there will be damage if the money has to rumble back into the budget and the filmmakers will have to watch the cross-hands next year. But I'm sure because I can see that you're not familiar with the conclusions of the Film Fund Supervisory Board, please take a look at the websites that I've done myself. How did the conclusions of how they appear appear in a film that did not see the light of the day? The same people as those who decide about him, whether it's no longer a conflict of interest to direct money, not just 20, not 37, but then your five, which I'm also asking you: Why did you give them extra money to rehabilitate the exact project that involves people who decide today's movie? Now what I'm wondering is: For those films that, for such a reason and for another reason, could they not complete and come to an end, should they become filmmakers or directors of the fund to provide money in such a corrupt and clientistic manner?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u184	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u185	Thank you very much. So, as regards the programme and the design of the Film Fund programme. So, I would say this, already in 2005, when the 2006 programme was launched, this programme was nothing earlier than in this year, so December 2005 and was approved in February 2006. And then there was no such question. Probably because you enjoyed having people in these places that were suspended this fall. There was nothing wrong with it being at the same time. Since there has been a change of leadership in the Film Fund in the last two months, the program as such could not have been done before. But it will be made in legal hands. This programme will take place in the coming days. As I have been informed, the programme is designed and will be completed in full time and in all hands. I believe that leadership will find a common language with producers, with the organization of filmmaking next year. Of course, those who have applied as candidates for filmmaking will have to meet all the necessary conditions that are necessary. I hope that when they submit all the necessary documentation, they will have contact and dialogue and will be able to organise film production in their established objectives and actions. For the rest of the stuff, we've given up extra funds. So, I have to say, the Film Fund was providing extra funds. I have nothing to do with this. But I will certainly learn very carefully about this and check it out. Through his powers, whether or not he violated the Film Fund and whether it was in any way related to today's leadership.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u186	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u187	In view of the fact that the Minister does not currently have a more precise view of these cases, I would suggest that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the discussion be held at the next meeting. Also because the Minister will obtain further information. In addition to seeing and checking whether today's promises that the programme will be prepared and fully endorsed in January will be implemented or not. I therefore propose that this be discussed at the next meeting. Even in the light of how and when Slovenian film is going to be destroyed, what was already known in the early 1990s when it was managed by the same people as now in the middle of 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u188	Thank you. On the proposal by Ambassador Majda Širca to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture to her question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Matjaž Han will now ask the Minister of Justice a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u189	Thank you very much, again. Honourable President, Honourable Ministers, Honourable Minister of Justice! Question related to material injury II. World War II, I've been asking you for the third time. For the first time, I pawned it orally at last year's November meeting and then in writing last February. In your responses, you have always referred to the Medresor Commission of the Government to address the issues of war damage, which you are also chairing. I must admit that your answers so far have been correct. This has also inspired me with the hope that we will get solutions this year in the form of a bill that you have also promised in your replies. However, it is now clear that this issue will be resolved at least in the following year. Material damage problem II. World war is not new, but it's been going on for years. Therefore, it would be a crime to claim that his failure is only the responsibility of the current government. So far, unfortunately, no government has shown the true will to find a solution that would be an appropriate compromise between the financial capabilities of the country and the demands of the injured. Nevertheless, the long-standing failure to resolve the problem of the current Government and you, as a competent minister, does not oblige you to resolve these issues. In your last written reply, you wrote that the Interdepartmental Commission had already sent a starting point for the drafting of the law to the Government in February. This law is intended to be incorporated into the Government's work programme in the event that the views are confirmed. I did not follow the law in this year's work programme. That's why I'm interested in: Were the proposed starting points unacceptable to the Government and unacceptable to what? However, as far as the starting points were concerned, I would like to know: Why was there still no proposal for a law that would be prepared at these starting points in the National Assembly? It says: When, though, can we expect the proposed law to be tabled in the National Assembly? Dear Minister, please also give me: This year, from February onwards, what activities have been carried out to address the problem of material injury to II. World War II and on what substantive points are the biggest issues or differences? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u190	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly! Dear Members and Members! Mr Han, thank you for your question as well. The Interdepartmental Commission for the Treatment of War Damage has examined the requirements of societies and individuals and all available documentation that does not relate to material war damage between II. World War II was established in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of this analysis, the Commission adopted, at the end of 2005, a proposal for partial compensation to material injury II. World War II, which brings together the whole issue of war damage. The data show that it was in II. the world war on the territory of the present Slovenia on private property is private property, not public property, about 150,000 injured persons caused by 23 billion then dinars or valoriziano to the present value of at least 540 billion tolls. The proposal contains a starting point for the adoption of a law that would address the issue of reparation for material war damage. However, the Mediterranean Commission has estimated that it would be reasonable to allocate 170 billion tolls for the partial recovery of material war damage caused on private property during World War II. Which means about 30% of the estimated and valorized war damage. The amendment of the law would be followed by compression and evaluation and, following the completion of the procedures, the expected funds among the injured parties would be distributed in proportion to the amount of their damage found. At the beginning of this year, as already mentioned, the Commission forwarded the proposal to the government procedure. At the end of February of this year, it was addressed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Committee on Public Administration and Public Affairs, but the material was postponed due to further coordination in particular with regard to the source of funds. Material war damage material was provided in coordination with coalition parties. In view of the extent of the injury caused in II. World War II, also for its work, would require a remuneration to provide substantial financial resources. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia manages to secure the funds, it will begin by drafting a law, which in such a case the Government would also submit to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u192	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I wouldn't want another answer. However, I hope, Mr. Secretary, that I will not need to ask you again for the fourth time on this matter. I hope today those who listen to this National Assembly have heard some of your answers. I believe that in the coming year we will bring this story to a happy end if Minister Bajuk, who is respected, will also help a little here, and that we will still help those people who have been harmed between II. World war, I'll say, in a way, help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u194	Thank you. Mr Miro Friday will ask the Minister of Finance a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u195	Honorable Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, respected Mr. Bayuk! The Director-General of the Customs Administration of Slovenia, Franz Košir, who also failed to run for mayor of Kranj by LDS, rekindled the spirits in Koroškem these days. At a time when we will begin to discuss regionalism and the provinces in Parliament and in Slovenia, Mr Koshir announced the abolition of the Customs Office of Dravograd. So the office that covers the entire region of Koroška. With the reorganisation, they intend to join the regional Carinthia customs in Maribor or Celje. Of the 10 customs offices of Slovenia, Dravograd customs office is this year with regard to taxes collected at the added value of excise duties and customs duties in the sixth place in the country. So it's almost in the middle of gold, but not somewhere on the tail, which might justify the announced measure. Customs in Koroška have been shrinking quite a bit in recent years. Before Slovenia entered the European Union, there were 90 customs officers in Koroška. Now there's 32. It does not hold the data of the Slovenian customs authorities so that the abolition of the customs office in Dravograd would not depreciate the Korean economy. I'm sure it would be a bigger waste of time and money. There would be higher travel costs and all of this in a well-known fact that from Koroška to Celje and Maribor there are poor road connections. This loss would apply to both the economy, the economic operators and the customs employees. We are already witnessing large daily emigration from one end of the country to the other, especially customs and police officers, which is also worth a lot. I ask Dr. Andre Bajuk, Minister of Finance: Is he familiar with such considerations of Slovenian customs? Does he support ad hoc and, in the belief of many, the highly controversial decisions of the customs administration and its director, Franc Koshir? Mr. Secretary, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u196	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. Thank you for asking, too. First of all, I should say that, as far as the claim that Mr Koshir is announcing the abolition of the customs office of Dravograd is concerned, it is not my understanding that this is true. In accordance with the Customs Service Act, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for the establishment and abolition of customs offices. However, the proposal for suspension or removal may be submitted by the Director-General of the Customs Administration. The Customs Administration has not made any formal or informal proposal to terminate the Customs Office of Dravograd or any other customs office since 2004 for the reorganisation of the customs service for the entry of Slovenia into the EU. Thinking or talking about the termination of the Customs Office of Dravograd is likely to be based on the scope of work in this customs office and also on the relationship between customs and administration, as 24 employees on the administration perform related tasks for 11 workers in the operation. This ratio between the number of employees at the Administration of the Customs Office of Dravograd and the number of employees at the exhibition is 215% in favour of the administration, while the average between administration and operation in all customs offices is 37%. In view of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the process of reducing employees in the state administration, CURS is already faced with staffing problems, as the number of employees has to be reduced continuously in the event of an increase in traffic. That's what he does. Thus, the number of employees decreased from 1.5.2004 to 31 October 2006 from 1883 to 1800 workers. In accordance with the 2007 Staff Plan, the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia will have to reduce the number of employees by 18. In 2008 even 34 workers were added. In this regard, the Customs Administration shall implement certain organisational changes and shall move employees from less burdened locations to more burdensome locations. Since this resource is already largely exhausted, consideration will have to be given to deeper interventions and some personnel will have to be deployed through reorganisation to locations where they are more needed. The customs administration must, in particular, take care of the current and as little as possible impeded movement of goods from third countries to the European Community and vice versa. With all we have to say, we must stress in particular that any harassment by the Coroner public and concern for the Carinthian economy are unfounded. Even with the possible organizational change of the Customs Office of Dravograd. Indeed, the Korean economy will certainly not be deprived of anything. Only a kind of organisational change in the office's exposure to the economy would have absolutely no effect, since, irrespective of the organisational form as an exposure, the customs company would still offer the Koroan economy the exact same service in Dravograd. This would allow companies to carry out all customs procedures in their territory without being deprived in any way. In this regard, we also note that, if possible, we will take into account the permanent residence of the employees and the envisaged location of the new employment all with a view to minimising travel costs. As already mentioned in the introduction to this reply, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and not the Director General of the Customs Administration are responsible for the establishment or abolition of customs offices or customs offices. Therefore, there will be no arbitrary decision and no decision will be taken. We add that the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia is a body composed of the Ministry of Finance. In accordance with the Law on State Administration, the Director-General of Administration responded to the Minister of Finance. In accordance with the said Director-General, it does not work in its entirety and does not expect this to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u198	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, thank you for your answer. The question is the room for the abolition of this kind of organisation. If we look at history in Koroška, about 10 years ago, the tax office was abolished, which was restored last year or before. This is the tax office in Dravograd. Ten years ago, they moved the Coroners of the Dakar to Maribor. And during this period, they realized that it was just a pretty stupid move. 30 years ago, in Koroška, the railway was shut down from Otiški vrh to Velenje. Today, Madam Ministers, you are looking to put this railway back into space. However, I ask the Minister that you are quite sensitive to these decisions when you decide on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u200	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. The fact is, we will take all your concerns seriously and they will be present when the moment comes when these matters will have to be decided. But the fact is, as you yourself said in your address at the beginning. In Dravograd, the number of officials at the customs office decreased significantly. Of the 75 that worked there on 30 May 2004, that is to say the evening before we entered the European Union, today at 31.10. But there are still certain things that need to be arranged there. So far, however, there has been no formal proposal or informal proposal. But, of course, I think you're right to look at these things with some long-term perspective. The fact is that the Customs Administration is one body within the Ministry of Finance, which has very successfully fulfilled its responsibilities, as regards the exposure of the Schengen border and has strengthened the work required in other parts of the country. It's already been done in its essence. So now we're looking at a completely different angle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u202	Thank you. Dr Mitja Slavinec will ask the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u203	Mr. Secretary, Dr. Jure Zupan. At the end of November, your ministry issued an invitation to tender for the implementation of higher education curricula. Among other things, you have written down that concessions will be awarded to higher education institutions in the fields of Goriška, Gorenjska or Savinja region for regular studies in Programme I, which fall within the same field of work in social sciences, legal sciences, agriculture, health. And even more so in the publication of the selected proposals or candidates, I was stabbed by two facts. The first is that the tender itself and, as it is said, the more elected candidates do not follow the direction of your ministry and the strategy for the development of Slovenia. Therefore, increase entry into the natural technical guidelines and decentralise and regionalise territorial education. The call favours certain areas of the Republic of Slovenia, and at the expense of other parts, it is not to see positive discrimination in order to favour those areas of Slovenia where tertiary education is significantly less developed than the Slovenian average, such as in Pomurje, but areas where it is already well developed. Mr Minister, I ask you this question, because many find it difficult to get rid of the feeling that this was all before professional reasons. They're talking about political reasons. And I'm giving you a chance to deny it. This clearly shows that you are not following what your ministry stands for, nor are you following more consistent regional development. Let me draw your attention to a fact we both know very well. There was not enough funding for the first and so far only higher education programme in Pomour. The Faculty of Agriculture of the University of Maribor had to look for its own resources, among other things, and the Pomur Region had to seek funds for the establishment of this programme, and it is natural, but now, of course, you will find funds for the award of concessions to the above-mentioned faculties in this tender. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u204	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u205	Dear Mr. President. Your Honor! Indeed, in November of this year, our ministry launched a tender for concessions for higher education programmes of the 1st grade. On this call, we have followed all the guidelines of our ministry, especially as regards regionalism and competition, in order to promote competition, to spread regionalism. Here we need to take into account another fact that I have been stressing all the time, namely that the first thing to do is to look at where the programmes are, what the programmes are, and then sign concessions when we see that the programmes are capable and viable. That is why I must say that I am pleased if he comes from your side, from Prekmurje, because I think Prekmurje is an extremely important area of Slovenia, which in this sense needs new school programmes, especially higher education, both in the field of agriculture, biotechnics, engineering, tourism and also economics or business skills in the area of integration of all these programmes, which I have cited, i.e. multidisciplinary higher education. Here, with all certainty and responsibility, I can claim that there will be such programmes in your area and that when we look at them in some framework perspective, we will be happy to call a concession for these programmes. When this is truly reviewed and all the conditions are met, we will also be happy to implement this concession. We stress here that we are aware of the need to develop especially those areas where they do not have one, but I am particularly stressing and once again saying that those areas wishing to have higher education programmes should prepare these higher education programmes themselves. That's what we're stressing. And here it has also been seen that the New York area is extremely active, extremely self-initiative, preparing programmes, connecting with the economy, making only a huge contribution, and so the active environment produces new programmes, and we are also going to meet them. Once again, please, and we will help you when the programs are ready for you, please come and we will give you more information on what needs to be done, in connection with our services, so that the programmes are really prepared as they need to be. And then we'll be happy to tender concessions for such programmes. In competition, where you will be quality and you will have all the conditions necessary to do so, we will also gladly grant you the concession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u206	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Slavinec.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u207	Thank you so much for your answer and your promise. The first one I say here is already mentioned in the Faculty of Agriculture. Look, Pomurje has invested 20 million to start this university and I really appeal to your ministry to provide these funds so that the programme can function as well as everyone else, because it is already an approved programme, which still does not have fully funded resources or provides them with a local environment. It is difficult for me to imagine that we would protect competition in this way, in order to promote new programmes where there are many of them, because any programme in Pomour will in no way be direct competition with the only one so far. I would like to point out, however, that with all these so-called Jambrek stores, the spirit has begun to flee the bottle and it will be difficult to stop it. The Honourable Minister is also the International Faculty of Social and Business Studies of Celje among the colleges which received the concession. I want to know who the dean is, to connect with him, to see what the procedure is without students. My information is that the university has not yet implemented the program and therefore only on paper to obtain the concession, I am interested in what are the things that translate it. One more time to finish. We certainly expect the Council for Higher Education not to look for hair in the egg and reject the programmes in the procedural proposals, such as the Economic Business Faculty programme for dislocated implementation in Radenci, but also in this case can show positive discrimination as in the previous programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u208	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the additional question. If I go back to the beginning. Here I would like to point out that this particular question of yours has not been mentioned in the question of parliament, and I cannot give you a concrete answer now. However, we will send you a written reply from those who refer to accurate data for Celje. As far as the Higher Education Council is concerned, it is necessary to say here that the fact that the Ministry and nobody else is involved in the work of the Higher Education Council is not involved. This is one of the basic requirements that the Council for Higher Education is autonomous, is what we all want. And here, please, we take the decisions of the Higher Education Council and we also see it as an autonomous body that decides professionally, so it has professional bodies when it forms an expert committee for each programme and then that program is reviewed accordingly. It is clear that personal opinions about whether or not such a body works well are also conditioned by decisions that are conditioned by the feeling of how close we are to a programme or not, but we take these decisions for granted and live with them. However, the fact is that, of course, the Ministry can also do so by sending certain guidelines to the Higher Education Council from time to time, which the Ministry considers appropriate, but it is not here, of course, to require, give guidance from the Council, or even to change its decisions. The Council is autonomous in its work and then takes these guidelines into account or not. We believe that the work with the world has now been quite arranged, that we have worked well together and that we have achieved some success in this. I have no doubt that, together with the services that we have with us, we will solve these problems specifically for this programme that you have mentioned. And I don't really see any problem. I also reiterate that it seems to me that Prekmurje and Pomurje, if we look at the whole part, also Prlecja, an area where we need significantly more higher education programmes than we have so far and I will be happy when these programmes are ready, and we will grant a concession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u210	Thank you. Mr Franz Ferri Horvat will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u211	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Janez Podobnik, I ask: What the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intends to do is to drill thermal water, which is the result of the research or drilling of Nafta Lendava owned by this company, in the event of the sale or purchase of a company by foreign persons would not also come under foreign ownership. It is estimated that only in Pomurje, in particular in Prekmurje, about 200 so-called research wells. Gardens of thermal water are a very important natural resource, which is especially valuable for less developed areas, such as Pomurje. Many are already in use, either in energy terminals, agricultural needs and the like. Thermal water gardens are defined in development programmes, both in the regional development programme and in some local and entrepreneurial programmes, as an important factor for development, for several purposes. For example, for the development of tourism, especially thermal, for energy use, for agriculture, especially for gardening, for the production of vegetables, flowers and the like. Up to now, there have been quite a number of problems with stakeholders to exploit these wells, both in the local community and in companies. If these wells were to pass into foreign ownership, there could be insurmountable obstacles to the maximum use of this natural resource. Therefore, in my opinion and in the opinion of many Pomurs, mayors and others, the State should act in a timely manner and, if possible, maintain this natural wealth at national or local level or so. Thank you in advance for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u212	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u213	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr Ferri Horvat, allow me to begin with the content of your question, this time on behalf of several departments, this is an interdepartmental question, at least a colleague of Dr. Žagar and Mag. Visionary, I say the government thinks as much as the urgency of your question. We are thinking of finding the right ways for these wells to remain within the framework of, say, the widest national ownership. Let me answer you from two perspectives. The first is formally procedural, and the second is the status itself, the ownership status of these research wells. About the formal status. The gardens of Nafta Lendava are owned by this company as a pumping facility, but Nafta Lendava does not have the right to water and does not have the mining right to concession. What does that mean? This means that the water right to use thermal water should be obtained if thermal water leaks on the surface into surface waters. Mining rights, that's what the Mag's department is responsible for. The viscous, if the thermal water were to return to the aquifer from which it is drawn. The owner of this facility may obtain a water or mining right to pump thermal water on the basis of an application for a concession. If we go in black, let's say that all of Nafta Lendava could be sold to a buyer, it could be European, Slovenian or another destination, the government has a discretionary right here and can decide to obtain the concessionaire also through a public tender. In this case, the new concessionaire must buy out the pump facility from the owner. What's the pump facility? It's basically a device, this little platform above the well, etc. Here I am thinking in the same way as Dr. Žagar's colleague has already proposed in these government procedures mags. A visionary who is also open to thinking in this direction. There's more than one way. Perhaps one of these is that a country that is formally owned by Nafte Lendava through ownership structures, but perhaps the country could somehow transfer this device for a symbolic price to the municipalities. The municipalities would then enter into formal roles and gain a role and then this could be one of the important sources you are telling me about, the development of tourism or energy use as an important renewable source of agriculture and gardening. In the event of a change in the owner of the company, the new owner would not be granted automatic concession rights by purchasing the company, automatically, but the transfer of the concession to the new owner should be confirmed by the Government when it comes to water rights or by the Minister of Mining if it is a mining right. If the Government had found that the new owner did not meet the conditions required at the time of granting the concession, it could also say that the concession was not granted. Now, what is the formal status of these research wells? Together we can find that these were research wells and were made with taxpayers’ money. This is a strong argument that the Government can now think about how ownership of these would transfer either into the exercise and ownership of the municipalities or in some other way. Legal property relations, formally, on abandoned research wells, are introduced in business books as the underlying assets of Nafte Lendava or her subsidiaries, on the basis of the establishment balances by which the funds were transferred from one economic entity to another, then under the conditions of social property. It was then put into management or management at the time of the establishment of an individual economic operator. These funds are part of the company’s capital; any interference with them also implies, in some sense, the entry into this capital ratio of individual companies. But I'm only talking about pumping devices, so platforms that are above the well. So only this part of ownership is one that can be seduced into business books. Everything else is the subject of other procedures. Mr Member, on the basis of your question, we will also, in addition, actively seek appropriate procedures to address this important issue, which relates to the ownership of research and other wells in Prekmurje, so that it can become an important regional development element for the development of Pomurje, in particular the Pomur municipalities and the Prekmurje municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u214	Mr Milan M. Squeakl will ask the Minister of Finance a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u215	Mr. President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Minister. Less than a month ago, we adopted amendments to the 2007 budget. This was already the second budget document for 2007 proposed by you as Minister. First, at the end of 2005, when you proposed the 2007 budget, we adopted its amendments a bad month ago. At the same time, we also adopted the draft budget for 2008. And look at him, a few weeks later, the government adopted a stability programme. In the stability programme, you say that you intended to be serious about public financial commitments, you intended to reduce the deficit against a bad percentage of gross domestic product, but in the meantime Christmas happened. Of course, the Minister of Transport's proposal that the rail transport law should change the rail transport framework. You say, on this basis, less than a month after you rejected the opposition's amendments here in this National Assembly to provide the necessary funds for rail infrastructure, less than a month after you, as the Government, in writing, rejected the opposition's amendments, which would provide enough money to carry out key priorities on the railway cross in 2007 and 2008, said, "Yes." It will be necessary to arrive at the National Assembly, after an urgent procedure to adopt a law amending the Rail Transport Act and for railways we will have to provide tens of billions of tolars on the basis of the new stability programme of the Government of Slovenia. Mr. Minister, I ask you: Will the 2007 budget rebalancing be needed? Will the 2008 budget rebalancing be needed? How are you going to get him out where you're going to save money? Please answer this, because we do not think it appropriate to substantially change the public financial framework in the Republic of Slovenia within less than a month because the government failed to follow the opposition's amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u216	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Thank you for your question. The fact is that we are living at a time when a lot is changing, especially in the area of public finances. The programme adopted by the Government in November 2005 on reform measures to increase prosperity in the Republic of Slovenia is being implemented. Of course, certain changes in the structural character in this area are also being implemented, particularly on the matter referred to by the Member, as regards the approach of this Government to resolving the long-term issue of the Slovenian Railways. It is true that when we were preparing the budget, it was not yet clear which way this would actually go. We needed, clearly, also a legal basis for a credible and sustainable approach, concerning the long-term financing of these needs, which were implemented only later. The National Assembly adopted the Law on Public-Private Partnership later, when the budget was also adopted or at least earlier prepared. It is a fact that certain changes will have to be made on the basis of decisions taken later on in this regard. The Ministry of Finance is preparing this and we will also come to the National Assembly in due time with certain proposals that will be needed. Otherwise, I am sure that the budgets, both for 2007 and for 2008 are prepared on a realistic basis. As you know, the budget is being prepared or the framework programme is to be set in May. What we have at the time in Slovenia is spring analysis by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. This basis has already proved to be somewhat more conservative than it is actually being implemented by 2006 and also by 2007. Economic growth is slightly higher than anticipated. As you know, 4.3% of economic growth was foreseen for 2006 in the autumn report last year. Then, in spring, it increased to 4.7, and currently the latest data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the third quarter tells us about possible GDP growth by 5.6%, which will also significantly increase economic growth in 2006 as a basis for further work in 2006. We are in the period in which certain legislation is adopted. Of course, in accordance with the Public Finance Act, we will report in due time to the National Assembly and propose such amendments as will be appropriate and in accordance with the report that you have just mentioned, and this is this stability programme that we sent to the European Commission a few days ago after 1 December. This Stability Programme report already includes laws that were adopted later. On this basis, we are also preparing and analysing what changes will be needed. If necessary, you are aware, honourable Member, that, in accordance with the Public Finance Act, this must be proposed by the Minister of Finance to the Government. I'm sure that's what I intend to do. However, I think it is also necessary to look at these things on the basis of experience so far that the Ministry of Finance has been very conscientious in this area. This National Assembly will have all the opportunities, and you too personally, Mr Member, will ask all the questions when we can calculate and calculate the consequences of the legislation adopted in 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u218	Thank you. Would you like to complete Mr. Squeakl's answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u219	Mr Minister, I would like to warn you that the Slovenian Parliament has not yet moved to Brussels. You say you've put documents in Brussels that will be the basis for something that we're about to accept in the National Assembly. The National Assembly adopted the State Budget, while taking note of developments in key categories such as social benefits. You have just informed the European Union that in Slovenia social benefits will be 56 billion lower than they were in 2005. You have just informed the European Union that the investment expenditure will be 50 billion lower than it was in 2005. You have just informed the European Union that the deficit of the country's central level, the state budget is not 149 billion minus and not 90 billion, as we will consider at the next meeting of the National Assembly when the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia is adopted. You claimed that, following the consideration of the draft budget, the Law on Public-Private Partnership had not yet been adopted, that it had been submitted and that you were informing the European Union that you would invest an additional tens of billions on the basis of an unapproved law amending and supplementing the Law on Rail Transport. Mr. Minister of Finance, we have no problem adding money to the railways. I want to know how you're going to save this money in the budget and where you're going to get these savings in the budget. We will be opposed to savings on social transfers or savings, which would, for example, mean more indebtedness. And so please explain this to us and, above all, explain to us and to Mr Christmas: When will this balance be established so that a serious railway programme can be implemented, but not to do everything in the last days before the new year?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u220	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Of course, right now and in the two minutes available to me, I cannot explain the whole issue of public finances in the Republic of Slovenia, the possible things that will change and have changed since the budget of the Republic of Slovenia was submitted to the National Assembly, and this was September. Of course, the adoption or submission of a budget does not mean that then all things are concrete, cemented and we cannot change anything. Certainly, as I said in my opening remarks, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is working on. Certain changes are being made and measures taken and already announced are being implemented. This has its consequences, the consequences will be taken into account and also proposed in a timely manner. If budget changes are needed, they will be proposed in this National Council for Approval, because we cannot work on our own initiative and otherwise. As for reporting to the European Commission, however, you are also aware of how many times a year Slovenia has to report. And it reports based on the data available at the moment they are given. Also last year, last December, we reported to the European Commission on the basis of what we knew at the time. And what we expected was that we would have 4% economic growth. You know well, and also on the basis of the information that you are aware that the implementation of the budget in 2006 so far shows that we will reduce the deficit in order to make it smaller than budgeted. Indeed, the implementation of the budget is based on the conscientious management of the funds entrusted to us. I think any of your nervousness or early judgment is obviously premature. This National Assembly was still informed in time of everything the Slovenian Government intends. You are also aware of the reform measures. I don't know why you're surprised we're doing them. It may be against your expectations, but I can't help you with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u222	Thank you. Would you like to propose a debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u223	First of all, I advise the Minister, without alarm, we are ahead of New Year's Eve. See, Mr Minister, if we considered the state budget as usual, we would consider it at this meeting of the National Assembly and we should also take into account the Christmas present for the Slovenian Railways or everything that needs to be done on the Slovenian Railways. And that's what we suggested. However, what I want to explain in the procedural proposal is the following. The Republic of Slovenia has only one Government and only one National Assembly. And the Government shall report to the National Assembly on the budgetary framework and in accordance with budgetary rules. Mr Minister has just said that they are reporting to the European Commission on the most final data. You know, Mr. Minister, in a good month we're going to be looking at the final budget account for 2005, I said this before, and I'm going to repeat it again, which was reported to the National Assembly with 90 billion deficits. You have reported over 149 billion to the European Union. The Court of Auditors has also informed you of this. That is why I think it is necessary to take the time and the Minister himself said that it would take more than two minutes for us to have a discussion on Mr Minister's inappropriate response. Mr Minister said that the Government has decided to adopt a stability programme, which is fundamentally different, in key elements such as the adoption of budgetary documents in this National Assembly. It is so significantly different that it will require a budget rebalancing for 2007 and will require significant changes in the budget for 2008. Moreover, most importantly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia said that it would achieve this 1% target by the end of its 2008 mandate. Now the government says that this goal will not be achieved until 2009. And another very important goal set by the Government is that the share of public spending should be reduced by 2%. Now they say, no, not just 2%, which is 4% of the point will be reduced, but by 2009. What do the data show? That public spending will continue to be very high during the period of government rule after the historically highest level in 2006 and then, in a year in 2009, this public spending will decrease by as much as 2.4% point or 200 billion public financial expenditure. Mr. Secretary, you're not a wizard, are you? You just can't do that. This information, you report on it to the European Union and you anticipate a significant reduction in social transfers, a significant decrease in investment, and I therefore propose that we hold a debate on the Minister's inadequate response and decide on it in accordance with my procedural decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u224	Thank you, too. We will decide on your proposal tomorrow within the voting point. The following question will be raised by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Nice greetings from a respected colleague and colleagues and also from a respected minister and ministers! Minister, I am going to start the question with the words you recently said when you were two years old, you evaluated your work or your ministry's work very well. I ask you: Do you know that under this assessment, there is also a law that waits for the Constitutional Court to judge constitutionality? Last but not least, these were the words of those affected by your work, your system of implementation and implementation of Bologna reform. Inadvertent legislative changes, non-coordination with higher education partners, harmful measures in the area of higher education financing and the eradication of Bologna reform. These are the specifics, Minister-in-Charlie. The new law on higher education and the regulation on the introduction and application of the classification system for education and training of the current university education as well as the Bologna Master's degree in the profession are classified in the same level as the seventh level of education. On this basis, it can be seen that the regulation and higher education novelties align university education to a second degree in Bologna. Some 15,000 signatures were collected within the framework of a petition of signatures that oppose the entry into force of this Regulation, which is due to enter into force next year, Minister. And you've heard all of the 15,000 signatories to this petition. Finally, the Minister adopted a regulation on public funding for higher education institutions and other institutions that are members of universities days ago. The proposal for amendments to the current regulation has been strongly criticised by universities. The new regulation is expected to exacerbate the financial situation of higher education, according to the University. To the Ministry of Justice, you say, and the universities have also seen that the proposal for a new regulation has been prepared by the Ministry of State without the cooperation of universities. Accordingly, of course, I am also asking you about the financing of the Bologna study, the other stages, the minister you are today comparing with university education and thus clearly destroying the essence of the Bologna study or reform. I ask the Minister: Since the budget has already been adopted [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and that, at the time of the budget consideration, you have said that it is necessary to set priorities in our country, whether the priority is indeed the financing of the Bologna study. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u226	Thank you. Minister, I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u227	Thank you very much for your words, thank you, Mr Vice President. Thank you very much for the question, Madam Members. First, it is necessary to clarify some of the inconsistencies mentioned in the question. You said that 15,000 signatures were given so as not to compare master's degree with a second university degree. That's not true. Fifteen thousand signatures were given to bring higher education to the seventh level. And that's exactly the opposite of what you said next. In those signatures, 15 grand, the Master's degree, the professional level and the second Bologna level there was nothing to say. That's the first time. As far as university education and other Bologna levels are concerned, if we now go to what you asked, it is the fact that we weighed and that it was on the scale that we showed, that was also the purpose of the CLASSIUS regulation, and that I would reiterate that it will be clear to everyone, because we are always talking about two things and we are going through each other. The aim of the CLASSIUS regulation and the eight-level regulation is to show Europe when it recognises when it sees all countries outside Slovenia, when they watch our diplomas, when they watch our education in the past, which of these levels is included. And that's what we did. And there we said that higher education is classified in the sixth, one stage, higher education - we are talking about the former - it falls into the sixth, two, and university education with a diploma falls into the seventh stage. That's what we said abroad. And we agree with that in principle. As for the regulation, I will tell you that we have aligned ourselves with universities at four meetings on this Regulation. So much for everything. But the fact is, not everyone is happy about this. And what I would stress is that when we wanted to especially reward those who would make good Bologna programs, with special money, when we said, there is so much money and more money, I stress that more than last year's, take 6% and these 6% to devote to those who made Bologna programs, the universities said no, no, we don't want that, we want the map all together. And here's the problem. When we want to channel money into Bologna programs, and that's what we want, and my answer to your questions, whether we want to finance Bologna studies, is yes. And we want to accelerate them and the purpose of the Bologna reform is to divide them into the first Bologna level and into the second. At the first Bologna level, most education in the tertiary system, at the second less and at the third even less. That's the cone that's necessary. And that's why we want to handle these things the way we do them. It is clear, however, that we want to give more money to those universities, to those spaces, to those programs that have turned into bologna, but for this money universities are not ready to compete, but they want each one of them to divide. In this, the Ministry has certain powers and has certain obligations to do so. We agreed to 4%. This is not enough of your wishes, according to them, but the compromise has been reached and that is my answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u228	Thank you. Complementary question, Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u229	Minister! When you mention consistency or inconsistencies, let us be consistent. I wasn't talking about higher education, but the problem is higher education. So far, graduates with higher education have had the seventh grade. If we really wanted to do them a favor within Europe, we would have left them at the seventh level. But if you'll excuse the Minister, you've mentioned the financing of good Bologna programs. Yes, you may also read your words that it will be financed or that the Ministry will promote competition and will be able to compete with both public and private schools for budgetary money. Since we have three equivalent, equal universities in our country today, i.e. university programs, I ask you: When will the private sector enter this higher education facility? These are also the orientations of Europe, the European Union, in the context of the Bologna reform. Germany, in particular, has introduced Bologna reform, but private higher education programmes, the so-called elite programmes, are being established in the country. And since I fear that the Bologna reform in Slovenia will also go in this direction, we will have on the one hand state universities, those three universities that we now have, which will be widely accessible to the general public, and on the other hand we will have elite universities that will receive extra points in the employment or diplomats of these universities, and the money will go out of the state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u230	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u231	Thank you very much. I have to admit, I didn't catch the question. Look, if I repeat, you've now admitted at that point in 15 that you wanted us to put higher education at the seventh level, and then put those with the Master's degree. We've cleared that up, and I'm glad you've come to realize that. As far as public and private is concerned, this has now been an additional issue, but it is quite clear that we want to have both public and private and that public money will go towards a concession to promote competitiveness and quality. There's no doubt about it. We want to have and promote competitiveness, because we see that public schools do not compete so strongly with each other, so we also want to promote private education through concessions. And we already have very good private schools. If we look at the University of Nova Gorica, which does not yet have the status of State University today, their quality according to recent achievements is extremely high. That's why we think that's why we want to get universities like this, programs that you say will have extra points. But the extra points - I don't know what you're really imagining under that word, "extra points" - these points are going to be given by the students who are going to sign up. Those students who want more knowledge, who will be ready to work harder, will apply to universities that will require more. And that's the purpose. I'll just be happy when the students start applying to colleges that I think are better. And we already have indications that certain programs, which are worse by the students themselves, have fewer entries this year. It has to be said that competition is increasing, this year thousands of students are less enrolled, that is a fact. This year we are at the beginning of that five-year period, when we are from 23,000 people 19 years ago who were born, when we are sliding from 23,000 to 19,000 students, when every year there will be 1,000 children or 1,000 young people less than last year, so the competition will get worse. And that's what we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u232	Thank you. Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, procedurally three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u233	Thank you very much. I too will take advantage of the opportunity given to me by Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure and ask other fellow Members to support the proposal for a broader debate on the response of the Minister of Higher Education. Minister, I don't know if you want to understand or if you're really so good at misleading or trying to mislead the general Slovenian public, not just me. I have the papers in my hands, and when we talk about higher education, we could, if we wanted, even if these graduates had an equivalent or better position within Europe, the European Union, instead of placing them in sub-level 6/2, put them in level 7, Minister. You could if you wanted to, but you didn't want to. Last but not least, Minister, let me explain a few more facts that would actually make sense to have a wider debate, because at the beginning we heard that the whole Bologna rate would be fully financed. First and second. Today it is possible to read to finance the Bologna rate, the second rate, only in cases or that this will apply only to those students who do not have a second rate of equivalent education, that is the current university education. But that's not what you said at the beginning, Minister. And this is another of what you have advocated on your parent's working body under the budget. If I understand wrong, then it is appropriate to have a broader discussion so that you can set up or explain to me and to all others who understand this system. Not the last time I mentioned elite universities. It is possible to read that the university cannot be mass and excellent at the same time. These are the orientations in Europe, the United States of America knows a similar system. This would even be appropriate for the Slovenian University of Slovenia. Last but not least, we can read when I mention those extra points, the minister, the graduates in elite universities or universities, then the career opportunities of the graduates will be decided not only by a formal title, but by the fact that they come from this or that elite university that just gives the title actual weight. I ask: Will we receive elite colleges, universities in our country, and will our graduates or future students be divided into those who will be able to study at the State University and those who will have money and will be able to study at elite universities and, of course, have a better chance of obtaining any good job in our country?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u234	Thank you very much. We will vote on your procedural proposal tomorrow. However, we continue with the questions of the Member States. It's your turn to send a mag. Janez Drobnič, who will raise a question from the Minister without a charter in charge of local self-government and regional development. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u235	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted constitutional changes to determine the possibility of establishing provinces in the Republic of Slovenia. This gave us another level of governance or self-government at regional level, i.e. another level. In this regard, questions arise as to the consequences of this, in a financial sense, in the organisational sense of the employment of administrative and other staff, then of the harmonisation of regulation. When I mention four levels, it means that we have a local level, then we will also have a provincial level, a state level and a European level, despite the fact that there are only two million people in Slovenia and also in terms of the surface. So, the complexity of regulation at four levels. In this regard, you have also made a proposal or a draft of the necessary laws, which will need to be supplemented or amended. It is also a matter of political burden. Four levels, all four levels are run by elections, parliaments or saints, then the executive branch of the Authority and the administrative staff. What are these consequences? Has anyone in this country, perhaps the Government, calculated, identified the consequences of establishing the provinces? Were the members of the National Assembly, both the coalition and the opposition, aware of all these consequences? What's the financial consequence? According to some estimates, this would mean one employee between 20,000 and 30,000 tolars per year, of course on condition that if we have any added value, we should say what the added value is. If this added value is not specific, it should be asked how to proceed. Right now you are preparing a package of systemic legislation that will also implement the constitutional provisions on the formation of landscapes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u236	Thank you. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! I personally believe that if we want to take the next step at the level of the polycentric development of Slovenia or more consistent regional development, that the establishment of the landscapes is necessary and I am also sure that you have this in mind even when you confirmed constitutional changes in the National Assembly. Constitutional changes in this area are, in some ways, a prerequisite that we can also get to the provinces on a substantially easier path. If we look at the aspect of more coherent regional development, then I would mention only one information. At this point, we are measuring the situation at this level through the so-called Development Hazard Index, at the level of twelve statistical regions. This development risk index contains individual indicators from this area, from the social gross product, unemployment and some others. And when we look at this index at the level of eleven statistical regions, we can see that the ratio between the least developed statistical region and the most developed one to two. However, when we look at the level of twelve statistical regions, this ratio increases from one to two to one to ten to one to twenty. And if we want to take the next step and therefore redirect this negative trend, I am sure that establishing landscapes is essential. When constitutional changes were adopted, we immediately joined our service in the preparation of the relevant legislation, a package of four basic laws on the establishment of the provinces, namely the Lands Act, which deals with powers, tasks and structures and all issues in this area, then the Law on the Financing of the Provinces, the Law on the Elections of the Provinces and the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of the Provinces, where the procedure envisaged for the establishment of the province is linked to the participation of the municipal level. The municipalities are still those or citizens and citizens who live with us in the congregations, and they are still supposed to be involved in this process. If we look at this legislation, then I must say that we are through this legislation, which is being coordinated at the widest possible level at this time, both in the political part between the parliamentary groups or the parties within the National Assembly, and last but not least, the legislation has been fully presented to all the parties, and we also want an appropriate response because we want to draw up the best possible quality legislation in this area. This is an extremely demanding project affecting the governance of the country, and it is not a project for a few years to come, but it also depends on the further development of Slovenia, as well as on the level of governance at this second level. On the other hand, activities are still under way, including with regard to the harmonisation of this legislation in the professional sense. As far as the financial implications that you have raised are concerned. I personally argue that it is and must be financially neutral in the basic principle. This means that the basic purpose of establishing landscapes is to move powers and tasks together with financial resources and relevant administrative structures that are already carrying out certain tasks in this area, from the state level down to that second level of local self-government, i.e. this provincial level. If we fail to drive the project in this direction, then I can personally agree that this is going in the wrong direction. And then we will not achieve what we want to achieve with the provinces, so, in some ways, the next development opportunity. The tasks to be carried down have also been assessed through the state budget. According to the 2007 projection, these tasks are estimated there at around 370 billion Slovenian tolars. Indeed, this number depends on the final decision as regards this work. The concrete establishment of the landscapes means that these resources will no longer be managed from the centre, but that the management of these resources will be transferred to this provincial level. With regard to certain additional institutions, it may be true that certain additional costs arise from the bodies themselves which are necessary, which are intended for the management of the landscapes themselves, but there are also other developments and moments. Above all, the one talking about significantly more efficient management of these funds. I personally believe that the resources are closer to the final consumer, and are much more effectively managed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Complementary question. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u239	Thank you very much for the opportunity. Of course, it is now difficult to ask you a question when constitutional changes have already been made. However, I asked the whole National Assembly whether, before these changes took place, it had decided what the effects were, namely 14 or 15 parliaments from 33 to 55 members, of course they would not work for free, then all the authorities that are then all the executive authorities at this additional level. On these issues, I have also spoken with some ministers at European level and they have asked us to decide on a self-governance method, on elections and on everything, but when we had the possibility of putting the landscapes on the side of local communities in the previous stop. Now the constitutional change has been made, and I would strongly recommend that you study and decide, in the light of this issue, what can be decided in this context that costs will be as low as possible, because they will be very high. With regard to these constitutional changes, I must tell the distinguished audience that I did not participate in these changes myself in the National Assembly because I was a minister at the time and did not decide. You have, of course, decided Members of the National Assembly. Besides, I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u240	Thank you. Complementary response, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u241	Thank you for your word. I would only point out once again that the main purpose of this project is not to increase costs. The main purpose of this project is to take the next step in the area of local self-government, to set up a segment that, last but not least, is lacking, which we are always reminded of by the EU, and some issues would probably be much easier to resolve. As I mentioned, of course, it is essential to move tasks together with financial resources and everything with appropriate administrative structures from the state level to this local level and to increase the efficiency of managing these funds. Now this issue will be actively addressed by this National Assembly after it first adopts this basic package of legislation, not least the last law in this package, this law on the establishment of the provinces, which is to be adopted by 2/3 of the majority and also in this part, is a protector who can ensure that the project goes in the right direction. Of course, I can agree in this part that, if this project meant some substantially increased additional costs and did not have added value, then this project could also be flawed. The aim is not to do so, but in essence it is also intended to accelerate this segment in terms of, say, coherent regional development and polycentric development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u242	Thank you. The following question will be raised by Dr Slavko Gaber, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u243	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to begin by congratulating Mr. Secretary. I would like to congratulate him on his decision, however, because it is not particularly common for him to have invited this time before the university regulation was finally adopted, at least to discuss this funding system. I would also like to congratulate him on agreeing with the universities on how the regulation will be implemented, but I cannot because, according to the information I have not reached an agreement, there was an ultimatum that either they would accept the proposed amendments with some of the amendments to his basic regulation, or he and the government would be left with what they initially wanted to adopt on their own in the Government. I am asking the Minister because he himself spoke publicly about the fact that universities should receive more money, namely, indeed more, Mr Minister, for the study activity in this country. How does that work in numbers? And how much more of that money will universities get according to the regulation that was in force until you changed it? I'd be interested in that in numbers, and I'll tell you in the future that we're going to have to figure out how much less money they're going to get. So if you happen to have this information to get less money, then I expect you to admit it to me and tell me how you will, therefore, when you are reducing funds for the study activity, realistically in this country, when you are expanding the network of higher education among the friends of the ruling parties - I am talking about friends because more or less of all the gentlemen of the male sex who decide on these things are the right men's association. How will you ensure a higher quality of higher education in Bologna, which you have accepted in such a way that if you want to have an education as is in force today for all who have completed a diploma, you have to do at least a second degree of Bologna study? I wonder what your answer is.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u244	Thank you. I'm asking for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, Dr Gaber. It's the same story over and over again. First, we need to discuss what that means more and what it means less. What you're saying is less than expected. But if we're talking about real numbers, it means more. Real, real, real, real, real, And that's what I want to stress. Then we go to work on what it means more or less. The fact is, for the whole school, I know what you're going to ask me first, but just so much patience to explain the whole, for the whole school, for the tertiary system, we're in a two-year period, because budgets are being adopted for two years, we've committed 16% more money, from 52 billion 700 000 to 61 billion 240 thousand, that is, 8 billion and a half more, in two years. But the fact is, now we come up with what you've been asking me all along, just for a little bit, for the activities of higher education. Because in this part, all of higher education is, of course, a large part of the investment, and here we all agree. In the case of the share of higher education activities, we have increased from 47 billion to 51 billion 100 million in two years, totalling 3 billion 900 thousand over the years, by 2 billion 200 000 in 2007 and by 700 000 in 2008. In percentages, this is 2.5% more than the inflation that was officially found through the UMAR, so 2.5%, if you add inflation, is still 2.5% more real. And now it was my question and everyone else's, if nothing changes at universities, so everything stays the way it is, then it's clear that they need exactly as much money as they would need to be increased for inflation. That means it's all about 2.5% improvement. And they have to do it themselves because they have funding in their hair. Well, they only use 2.5% to improve. And that's what we want them to do to figure out for themselves what's gotten better and put money there because they're autonomous and because they have funding in their hair. That's our purpose, you could. But now we ask why, if we put 8% more into tertiary education, why didn't we put into higher education what the previous regulation would require and want and would like to reduce in investments a little bit less and achieve what we want. This is a question that is really financial. And the answer is very simple. I could go on, I'll just say the case of the University of Primorsk. The University of Primorska exceeded a billion to two billion investments. It's done and it's going to have to be paid. No matter how this is done, it will pay our ministry, through higher education, through [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The thing is done, the bills run, if you don't pay, they'll just be interest. [[...]] And now, we could make ourselves beautiful and pay for it through higher education, and we want to pay it normally through investments, just like it is, and here are the problems. Here are the problems, of course we have on both sides the desire to build, after that [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] on debt, because they're autonomous because they have "lamps", and then they come to the Ministry and they want to pay for it. [[...]] We want to put things in place and have enough money for what they do, they have enough money if nothing changes, but for what they change they only have for that part 2.5% of the whole, and that is enough to change our estimates. So much for this plan. I am aware, Mr Member, that it is a permissive education to give everyone who wants anything possible way to work, and I do not agree with permissive education, and I want creatively to intervene in this area in this area, that if permissive education is not sufficient to be carried out by you over universities, they are now all astonishment and are at this particular time as they are. We want them to act more rationally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u246	Thank you. Complementary question, colleague gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Mr. Secretary, we seem to be quite different. I didn't raise universities, and it makes me laugh that you're raising them, because we're talking about the highest scientific and educational institutions in this country. I hope it's not a government policy, but maybe another time. Look, my data is talking. I'll ask you to deliver yours. Our calculations show that higher education under the regulation that was in force until you adjusted it to your success, better said failure in budgetary negotiations within the Government, should bring 50.8 billion dollars to the higher education for activity in 2007. You've provided $49.5 billion. The minus you've produced is 1.3 billion tolars. In 2008, the previous regulation, which favoured higher education, should provide 53.9 billion tolars. You've provided 51.1 billion tolars, which is 2 billion 800 million tolars. With these minuses you say you are going to improve quality in this area. It is not that they have expressed their wishes, Mr Minister, that you have not provided the resources that you should and have gone to the postfestum to amend the regulation. After so much cohabitation within the government and that famous thesis that you agree on everything, at the expense of higher education perhaps.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u248	Thank you. The following question will be raised by Mr Bojan Kontic, Minister of Transport and Minister of Environment and Space. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister! A year ago, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, under the leadership of President Janez Janša, visited Koroška and also visited Savinja Šaleška krajina. In both provinces, the President was informed of the problems posed by the irregular transport infrastructure. After talking to you, the President probably also provided the inhabitants and residents of Koroška as well as the Savina Shaleska Province with a fast road, a fast road within the third development axis, a fast road to be built in 2008. It is now the end of 2006, so we have another year until 2008. I wonder: Is the plan to build a highway, a fast road in 2008 still a reality, or has anything changed in the meantime? During the local elections, the President expressed his wish, Prime Minister of the Government, to have a co-operative mayor in Velenj who would be willing to cooperate with the Government in putting a fast road into the Savinj region. I can assure the President and also you from this town that all the mayors of the province of Koroška as well as Savinja Shaleska are very willing to participate in the rapid road project. But I'm concerned that this project isn't real or that it was too optimistic. I have warned you several times, however, to avoid my concern: Is it realistic that we will start with a fast road at the time that Mr. Janez Janša promised with a future plan?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u250	Thank you. Minister Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u251	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member, Bojan Kontic! As you probably already know, at the initiative of our Ministry of Transport in 2006, procedures for the preparation of state-level location plans on all three parts of the third development axis have been initiated. These procedures are conducted in accordance with the applicable legislation of the colleague Minister Janez Podobnik, the Ministry of Environment and Space. The Ministry of Transport actually participates in coordination and validation at all stages. The initiative for the northern part of the third development axis, from the border with the Republic of Austria to the Koper-Šentilj motorway, which includes the section from the Arje village to Velenje, was presented to the Ministry of Environment and Space in October 2004. Professional grounds are already being developed for this section. Their contracting authority is the Company for the Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia and the task is co-financed by EU funds dedicated to regional development. Taking into account the legislation in force, spatial and environmental protection, procurement legislation and other legislation which is mandatory in the preparation of the State site plan, the Ministry of Environment and Space has prepared a timetable for the adoption of the regulation. As soon as the Regulation is adopted, implementation works will be carried out, including a construction project, land purchases and only construction. In the meantime, narrow throats are removed on the existing main road between Arjo village and Velenje in accordance with the road manager's plan, namely the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. The dynamics of the implementation of the measures are based on the available means and the state of readiness of the technical documentation. Work on critical sections, notably cross-border arrangements and overlays, will continue in line with the adopted budget in the coming 2007 and 2008, for which about 500 million tolars are planned. A further 280 million tolar is also envisaged in the 2009 and 2010 development plans for the implementation of measures on this road. Comrade Minister Janez Podobnik will explain the timetable.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u252	Thank you very much. I would first point out, Commissioner, that the third development axis is one of the most important infrastructure and regional development projects that the current Government has started to implement. We can figure this out together. Before you plant the first shovel, it's important that you place such an infrastructure facility in space. On your particular question whether the government's announcement is still realistic, my unequivocal answer is as follows. Unless a new law on spatial planning is passed, this forecast is not realistic. The first review of the new proposal of the Spatial Planning Act will be tomorrow, which, in spatial terms and time dynamics, will forgive the real possibility that this road will be placed in a space in such a dynamic process, so that the announcement of the Prime Minister starting a part in 2008, not in January 2008, but perhaps one of the other months, will still be realistic. I am very pleased with these forecasts of the cooperation of the mayors and also the sub-districts. That's an important question. Last but not least, because the decision on the most appropriate options will be a very important element, which is called social acceptability. We know that there are still some open questions. Here, too, like the one with the mag. On Christmas, I coordinate the management of the Interdepartmental Working Group, I am open to working with all the mayors in this area. At the same time, at the very beginning of the preparation of the national site plan, this is in full progress on the basis of the legislation in force, which is long, complicated but will be slightly changed, and we have also made preparations, so the project for comprehensive development in the area of the third development axis is being implemented. The money was provided, the contractor has done quite a bit of his own work, has identified the development characteristics of this area, has also identified, in particular, scenarios for the development of the transport supply, and most importantly, and this was of great interest to the municipalities. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] regional development agencies were concerned with the comparison of individual corridors and the selection proposals of the most appropriate corridor. [[...]] In January, on the basis of this study together with transport experts, development issues and others, this scenario would somehow be re-examined. There has also been a review of aspects, transport technical aspects, economic and other aspects and we would like to make some basic decisions on [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] If this happens with the help of the congregations, then the forecast is still realistic. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u253	Thank you. Complementary question, Mr Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u254	Thank you very much. I can say that I am happy to answer that I am happy with optimism, because the fact that this road connection, the fast road, is urgently needed for this place is familiar to everyone. And I also know and know your efforts, both the transport ministries and the ministries of the environment, to do this as quickly as possible. I'm sure the law will be passed. Until now, all the laws proposed by the Government have been adopted, and I have no doubt that the one to be considered tomorrow would not be adopted. But I would also find out, or I could find out as much as you, that we do not think in January 2008 that 2008 has 12 months and even if it starts in December 2008 it will still be in 2008 and it is all praiseworthy if this happens. So I welcome optimism, because the information that was has shown that this will not happen before 2010. In doing so, it is of course important to ensure the flow of the existing road and to ensure that the interventions on this road are carried out in such a way that, during this time, until there is a fast road, the existing Arja Vas-Velje road works in such a way that traffic will be running. Because if we put further obstacles on this road now, we will further obstruct transport, especially in terms of freight vehicles, which serve the economy in particular. But it would be good to think about joining the highway, Celje has three connections at the moment, also has a Velenje baby or Arja Vas-Koroška, has a diamond connection and this is a problem that should be solved.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u255	Thank you. I'm asking, what kind of minister is going to put his point on the question? None. Good. Thank you. The next question will be raised by the mag. Tomaž Štebe, Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The question of e-mail refers to the problem, or sometimes even the fate, of failure to act or the slow action of inspections, as well as of other authorities overseeing the provision or implementation of legality, including the police. I would like to limit myself to environmental and urban inspectors. However, I place it because in some cases not all interventions have helped, so I am now turning as a Member directly to the Minister. The lack of action is largely attributable to the exposure of inspectors as individuals, who are aware of the perpetrators known as names and surnames, residences and the like. As a rule, they operate in a local or regional environment. All of this, in addition to direct influences, pressures on non-action, including bribery, affects so many illegal interventions into premises that are not sanctioned or prevented in time. Is it possible to reduce the impact of the local environment on non-action or lack of decisive action by inspectors? Would local influences be smaller if inspectors acted outside their own environment and with only official, non-personal identification? Perhaps this is also a question for the Minister of Public Administration. On the other hand, the problem is not to act in a timely manner, as the infringement is deepened to a state that can sometimes even be understood, yet it is still totally unacceptable that it is not possible to act decisively without further complications. Inspectors shall have all the power to act decisively at least in order to stop further infringements. There should be no more reasons in a small number, i.e. inspectors. The sanctions must be carried out immediately. However, the sanctioned party has legal protection, which does not prevent the implementation of the sanction. The inspectors must, with greater responsibility and timely punishment, put an end to the infringement, with responsibility and determination. For all of this, they should be properly empowered and probably also trained and paid. But I also ask you for an answer: How and when will the Ministry sanction the three cases that I have referred to in the written part of the question? You do not have to answer exactly these three cases, but I will be happy if you make sure that they actually sanction or regulate themselves. Thank you very much, Minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u257	Thank you. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Lord Mag. A question mark. First of all, as to your initiative, whether local influences would be smaller if inspectors acted outside their own environment, you are proposing only with official, non-personal identification. This is indeed a topic related to the system of operation of inspection services and can be examined in cooperation with the director, Dr Virant. Answer some of the other questions you're opening. About the pressure on the inspectors. The nature of the inspection work is such that the inspector must not agree to such pressures. If he does otherwise, it means that he is acting contrary to the law that gives him authority or is not fit to do the inspector’s hard, responsible, often ungrateful work. That's the first one. Second. You're not talking about acting inspectors. Your data is accurate in the sense that, indeed, we are also seeing this, there has been an increase in the breach of construction legislation in the recent period. So, if this is happening, then let's face it, it's not in principle due to the operation of inspections and inspectors, but it's important to see if there's anything wrong with the legislative segment. One of our assessments is, therefore, we also have, I would say, the basis in the estimates that in the last period when the Property Regulation Act was introduced by the Institute of Location Information as an act issued by the local community and in which we often find that very vaguely defined what an investor can and must not build up to determine precisely on the basis of this instrument a greater number of infringements. Therefore, the new law will remove this instrument and replace it with another. With regard to the remote action of the inspectors, you ask, however, it is necessary to say that the inspector cannot decide, does not have discretion, but must, on the basis of the law, lay down sanctions or fines precisely within the prescribed procedure, but also has an extreme measure in the case of illegally constructed buildings, which will be taken into account if legalisation is not possible or if the debtor does not carry out an inspection measure on his own fault, despite the fine imposed. You also mentioned three cases in your question. We have processed them in detail, and we will also provide you with written answers. The first touches upon your assessment of illegal construction in the area of the industrial zone Mengeš-Topola, according to your opinion, the municipality of Mengeš was also injured because of the absence of inspection. We've received an in-depth response from the inspectorate, and we'll present it to you as well. The same applies to the VGP Hydrotechnics area, a share company. You mention an example of the operation of inspection in the case of Lafarge cement in Zagorje, most likely you were thinking of Trbovlje. In the framework of the inspection, the excessive environmental burden with the sulphur dioxide mission was indisputably identified and, already in September 2003, under the applicable Environmental Protection Act, it was determined by the inspectorate that the Ministry of Environment and Space should direct the preparation and implementation of the rehabilitation programme to that economic operator. The company has prepared this programme, produced it and, since it is a device capable of causing pollution of a greater magnitude, this company will also have to obtain an environmental permit. This is an intensive process. And one more thing. Until then, it must end with a complete recovery. And quite a few interventions have already been taken by this company and the public will also participate in this process when it is checked that all environmental requirements are met. And another question was, in particular, the question was related to the building permit for an investor who was allowed to build four multi-housing buildings on land in the Katastra municipality of Karlovsk. At present, this case is before the Supreme Court, where an appeal has been lodged against the decisions of the Administrative Court. But we will also give you a very specific answer in writing on this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u259	Thank you. Complementary question. Here's your friend Steba.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u260	Thank you very much for the possibility of a complementary question. Mr. Minister, I know at least two of these cases, and I already know these answers. Your superiors or superiors have already provided these answers. I'm afraid they're not acting. You inherited this, both these cases and the link to your cement, and you inherited these responsible people who are in charge of the inspector. Actually, at this point, given the rest of the question, I don't blame so many inspectors anymore, because there was probably a lot going on from what I was saying, but I blame the superiors, who, despite all the warnings, are still giving the same answers, in this case, you too. And I think it's time for you to act in terms of the responsibility of these people. Director of Inspection Services and Head of Inspection Services. We know all these answers, the communication's going on, there's no results. Black construction in a walled area for which there is no problem of legalization or obtaining a building permit. I'm not talking about black constructions in impenetrable areas where you'll have to consider a similar measure as Jasbinskov did in 1993. But such things are unacceptable for so many years. It's just an interest in the back. Economic interest, not to cause too much cost and, of course, to break all regulations smoothly. I think it's time you took action with those responsible, because it's too late to act with the inspectors. In any event, action should be taken as soon as the object is stuck and all elements of the building permit checked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u261	Thank you, too. Additional answer, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u262	Thank you very much. In one particular case, I would like to explain the role played by the Ministry and the Minister. This is a case in which I, as Minister myself, have also become involved and I know him well, of course, within my powers. It is an environmental burden on sulphur dioxide emissions and other emissions in the case of Lafarge cement in the Rippers. There have been many, many times in public, the position of some NGOs and civil society organisations in Zasavje that the competent inspectorate has not done its job. But I ask you whether it is the competent inspectorate on the basis of the current Environmental Protection Act, when it found that there is an undeniable excessive burden on the environment with sulphur dioxide, in this case, and ordered the preparation and implementation of the rehabilitation programme to the Ministry and we requested it by decision, and now the company has produced this programme and is also carrying out some major investments, which are more than a billion Slovenian tolars, and if this organisation under the current Environmental Protection Act has come into the process of obtaining an environmental permit and has ordered the preparation and implementation of the rehabilitation programme to the Ministry. We have requested this by decision and now the company has produced this programme and is also carrying out some major investments, which are more than a billion Slovenian tolars. And if this organisation is in the framework of the current Environmental Protection Act, it has come into the process of obtaining an environmental permit, and this is July 2007 is the 'death line', and it will also participate in the public and it will only be if it meets all environmental requirements. If there is no such device, it shall not receive a decision on the operation of this device until the prescribed time limit. There is no reason for me to doubt the ineffective conduct of inspection services and the service that runs them. This case can't be real. It is true, however, that there is a much more complicated process involving some other procedures that are particularly linked to the construction of investors on some of the land you mention and so on. And, as we say, in the course of further examination of this case, we would answer your question in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u263	Thank you. Member Ljubo Germič will ask the next question, including the Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, other ministers, colleagues and colleagues! According to your assessment, Minister, in the years from 2004 to 2020, about 400,000 tonnes of waste asbestos cement, which is just one of the types of products containing asbestos, I asked you a question before a few more than a year and a half at the fourth regular meeting of the National Assembly on the implementation of the rules on the management of materials and waste containing asbestos, on the supervision of the implementation of these regulations, on the public's awareness of the risks of these wastes, and on the possibility of introducing additional financial incentives for the professional replacement of construction materials containing hazardous asbestos. In my opinion, the situation in this area has not improved significantly since then, and we can also see in the media many times the news of the complications of the removal of asbestos-containing roof covering. In my view, rules are not respected and works are most often carried out by unauthorized operators. Often, owners and contractors also use the rules governing this area to circumvent their obligations. In my view, it is unacceptable that the type of irregularity even occurs in the rehabilitation of public buildings, especially the construction of kindergartens and schools and health institutions. Let me only remind you of the complications, the irregularities in changing the coverage on the buildings of Ljubljana kindergartens. In my opinion, at least three reasons for this situation are: poor supervision of owners or investors and operators of such works, still poor information and awareness to the general public about the risks of asbestos waste and the necessary procedures for the safe management of asbestos and the price of about 2,500 tolars per square metre removed asbestos coverage in accordance with the rules. On the basis of the above, Mr Minister, I ask you how many inspections or inspections have been carried out in 2005 and this year, especially with the fact that in 2004 there were only 9 such checks? What measures have been ordered by the inspection and what sanctions have been imposed for detected irregularities? Why you have not fulfilled the promise given in response to the 4th meeting, a year and a half ago, to prepare and issue with the Environment Agency a special bank to try to improve the general public's behaviour on the risk of asbestos-containing waste, by which measures will improve the state of asbestos recovery in the environment, not only in compliance with the rules after the disposal of approximately 24 000 tonnes spent [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] asbestos-cement criteria per year, but also in many other cases on the use of asbestos and asbestos products and whether you feel an objective responsibility for measures that [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u265	Thank you. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u266	Thank you very much. First of all, with regard to the so-called objective responsibility. Also because I am aware of how important this issue is, this year, I proposed to the Government in September and, at my proposal, adopted a regulation on the acquisition of waste asbestos cement construction products at municipal waste landfills and on the fixing of the maximum price for their disposal. I am glad that this order came across, despite everything, this regulation ran into a good reception, Official Gazette No. 97 and it also contains a list of municipal waste landfills with the indication of municipalities from which waste asbestos-cemented construction products must be taken over for disposal. This is a very important decision. The second thing, I agree, the promises that we will make a special move, we have not yet come true. However, I must tell you that in the framework of the operational programme on hazardous waste management, which is in the programme and will be adopted shortly, we have a special chapter dedicated to information and education and the package is an integral part of this material. I hope she sees the light of the world in the first months of next year. There's more information. In this case, the Environment and Space Inspectorate has proved more effective than in previous years, conducted 98 inspections in 2005, with 28 actions to remedy the deficiencies and two infringement proceedings. Interestingly, he has already carried out 200 reviews this year to this day. 200 reviews and it issued 72 measures and introduced 6 infringement procedures, which is a major growth, according to 2004. Which are the most common infringements, you have already mentioned them; incorrect treatment of asbestos materials as waste; and action has also been taken if the removal of roof covering has not carried out the required measurements of asbestos fibres in the environment. As far as schools or kindergartens are concerned, I have information that one procedure was introduced here in August this year. It was to remove the asbestos roof covering of one of the kindergartens in Ljubljana, not to name it. One of the questions was what we were going to do to keep this dynamic of removing this hazardous building material. At the last meeting of the Eco-Fund Supervisory Board, information on the completion of this year's call for accreditation was also provided and we found that the number of credits already used this year to replace asbestos cement roof coverings, 847 million tolars, was used for this purpose. Many schools, kindergartens and other public institutions have also taken advantage of it, and as an interesting thing, when a part of Slovenia was deeply affected this June or July, and a number of roofs were affected, in cooperation with the Ecological Fund, we have allowed the owners of these buildings to receive this relatively favourable loan from the Ecological Fund, so this is one of the additional ways that shows that we are seriously aware of this problem and will continue to exchange materials on the coverage. However, it is also an important issue of replacing asbestos cement pipes, which we use for drinking water and also here I have information that a number of Slovenian municipalities, when reporting cohesion and other projects as a rule, also report a project to replace these pipes with health-friendly pipes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u267	Thank you, you. Complementary question, colleague Germich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u268	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Of course, I have no reason to doubt the statements you have presented here, but of course I would also comment on this in connection with the adoption of the so-called asbestos law. You know that, somehow, we do not find a common language with the Government's views in this National Assembly and, of course, when we received an opinion, in view of the law that was actually put forward by the coalition Members, this opinion referred to a number of elements that would have to be provided before we could decide that they were special rights, due to disease, that is to say to compensation for asbestos-induced diseases in the environment, not only in factories where asbestos was involved, it was possible for the Government to understand from this opinion that it would deal with a number of studies on what the environment is and how to define the circumstances and causal links between what asbestos exposure is and the consequences of asbestos. Of course, Mr. Minister, you are leading a field where you talk about environmental protection and of course I am interested in: in what part do you see the participation of your ministry in that, of course, there are immediate actions and research that will identify these causal links, because when we talk about the environment and the definition of the environment, it is precisely the cases that we talked about, that is the removal of criticisms with cement asbestos products, that will be a very difficult question. And the integrity of addressing this issue in the Government will be extremely important. And I'm interested in your position on this opinion that the government has forwarded on the subject of asbestos law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u269	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Thank you for the supplementary question. It is true that jurisdiction over this issue is partly shared, some other colleagues, ministers in the government cover it, but environmental issues are somehow linked to issues affecting human health. First of all, I would like to say that we have, in the first place, not imposed this, in the Slovenian legislative framework of three regulations and three regulations which all touch on waste management or are bound to asbestos emissions into the air or are bound to asbestos cement products or are bound to the conditions under which asbestos-containing materials may be used in the reconstruction or establishment of buildings. It is true, however, that the Law on the Prohibition of the Production and Trafficking of asbestos Products and on the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production into asbestos is also a very important law, which touches on a very specific status of such or a different number of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I have been a minister for the past two years, and I have been in several personal or written professional contacts with the Institute for Health Protection, whose principal has actually been a doctorate in the U.S. and she is a top expert on asbestos issues. And in some segments we are working together, and we will also be working in the future, and I would be open to such a solution, which will be right for those who work in the framework, we are talking about the working environment, which has been very affected in the past, when the profession has not yet been 100% convinced of how harmful asbestos is to human health, here I think we have already found the right solution for this group of citizens and citizens. The issue for all those citizens and citizens who lived or lived in the vicinity of these economic operators, or who acted in other working environments, in which they later proved to be part of their living environment, were also products, coatings with non-compromising substances in which they were also asbestos particles. This issue still awaits the Government, and I hope that we will find a solution that you will also agree with Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u271	Thank you, Minister for Answers. The following question will be asked by Member Srečko Friends, also to the Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u272	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleague, distinguished ministers and minister! As early as 2001, the Minister-designate addressed to you or to the Minister-General at the time, the question of why Kemiplast was allowed to continue production because the releases that caused the fish's sea were already recorded and the environment was polluted in the immediate vicinity of drinking water capture. At that time, the owner claimed - also now this gentleman is still the owner, Mr Kadič - that he has bought thousands of hectares in Hungary where he wants to move this factory. You said recently that you're primarily a minister who likes to solve problems. And today the Slovenian public expects a very clear answer from you, because the facts that I will mention are very contradictory. On August 21st of this year, an explosion occurred in the former Iplast plant, today’s Kemiplast. At the same time as today, the director states that, although they have completed a three-week renovation some time ago, they create 100,000 euros of income every day in Kemiplast, which he said could certainly not be the reason for the closure and that he does not believe that the Minister will decide. And of course, if the factory doesn't burn, they don't have to let the firefighters into the processing rooms. He was so vehemently defending his facts, and that's what happened. It's estimated there was at least a million damage. He broke the main processing reactor. And once again, toxic gases were released into the environment, which actually caused environmental pollution. As a response to this, you have actually appointed a Council of Experts, which later also issued a decision, which states that they must close the plant on the basis of the facts found by the Inspector, which has not happened, Minister-General. Actually, this happened on May 9th, when you wrote it, and on May 15th, you already threw it away. There's something else I'd like to ask you. With regard to what your Members have promised in the pre-election campaign in Cyprus, I will state the following. By the way, the Light of Pregelj and Olga Franca [[End warning sign]] They claimed that this factory had to leave the premises and that a shopping and logistics centre would be established here, according to yours, that is, their President, who you are.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u273	Your time! Thank you. I'm asking for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u274	Thank you very much. It is true that I am the president of my excellent colleagues, Mr Pregle and Mrs Olga Franz in Cyprus. First of all, I didn't exactly understand that the professional world - you probably thought or had in mind a working group that covered the scope of the work of Kemiplast, who had 12 meetings [[I have all the records and findings with me.]] . He was recently led by Dr. Marjan Vezjak [[?]] , Director of the Investments Department of the case. [[...]] However, since he has now changed his field of work and also his employer, he has become vice-president, while this group is led by a mag. The crane, the environment and the space and, of course, this expert council has no mandate, has no authority to close a work organisation, a system. [[...]] I'm afraid he doesn't have that mandate. And maybe it was a misunderstanding or some other procedure. I must also tell you that I also received today a letter from the local community of the dekani, which will also soon convene a assembly of nationals, which will also be attended by representatives of our ministry. This is a question relating to the procedure for obtaining a building permit, which is linked to a procedure that took place for a number of years, which took place in a court of law and which was concluded this month. The Court gave it to the working organisation in this case. And the court's judgment is legally binding. At the same time, however, I will repeat this, on the basis of the Environmental Protection Act, we have brought into the Slovenian legal order a directive on the comprehensive prevention and control of environmental pollution, which is why, under this Directive, all contaminants causing pollution of a greater scale must obtain an integrated environmental permit, i.e. an ITPC, up to, last deadline, on 31 October 2007. The list of these companies is also publicly available on the websites of the Environment Agency. I must say that Kemplas has recently submitted this application for an integrated environmental authorisation. I had previously explained what the procedures would be like and what this company should do in a technological sense to enable a real computer to obtain such a permit. That's what he's gonna do. That's what he's gonna do. Otherwise, one of the main tasks of this Interdepartmental Expert Commission was to seek financial and other resources and also here was the role of our ministry, in cooperation with both national and civil initiative, in order to move production. We were very close to a solution so that SIT could obtain a very favorable loan, so that it could move this factory to one of the other locations, to one of the countries that is also a member of the European Union. The last piece of information I have before me is to make a final decision to make the owner of Kemiplas d.o.o. adopted this financial arrangement; therefore, I do not have this information. I still hope this happens. We have also done a partial mediation role in our ministry, including our competence to seek favourable financial arrangements so that companies can move their production to another location. But we have also done so and I would still hope that this agreement will be realized. Otherwise, this company was under, I would say, the very constant supervision of the competent inspection services and if any of the irregularities were ever detected, the company was also, of course, sanctioned. The most recent measurements of operational monitoring, which are very fresh, confirm that the parameters were within legal limits, are said to be no formal reason for the inspection to impose either temporary closure of the plant or additional technological measures in order to change the emission parameters that this production may otherwise cause. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Complementary question, colleague Lucky Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u276	On 9 May, the Ministry of Environment and Space overturned the decision of the Environmental Inspectorate by which this company Kemiplast Dekan was banned from operating production and, of course, on 15 May, you have already dealt with the complaint in this Ministry, which found that the complaint was justified because the contested decision could not be carried out in a manner and within a period essentially set. Look what happened on August 22nd that same year. There was an explosion in the plant and, of course, 2.9. after yesterday's meeting, writes the work of the Professional Council, which was appointed by environmental minister Janez Podobnik, it is even clearer to learn that Kemiplast will work in the Dakar before Koprom for at least a year or two. Just a few months later, Minister, you don't have to change your mind, you know, these are cut-outs from Del, and you've been wasting your promises on a campaign campaign to shut this factory down. Who's lying? I will also read this: "Camplast needs to be relocated within a year into the factory area to install a transport logistics shopping centre." That's what Mr. Jarko Pregelj said on your behalf. Work, Your Honor. Why are you moving in here and turning things into cellophane? The fact is that this factory does not have the necessary operating permits and the fact is that you have to do something if they are creating 100 million, 100,000 euros a day. See, you are also reminded of this petition, which you have also received and not only signed by one, but by the local community of Croats escaping [[..]] [[Warning signal.]] , etc. [[..]] That's what you got. You haven't answered that question, Minister-in-Charlie, once again. Until when, tell me, how long? Do people have to die there to act?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u277	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u278	Thank you very much. I'd deny your assessment of this as a diversion. Finally, I met myself several times in person with representatives of the townspeople in Ljubljana, the decans and other locations, in the Municipality of Koper. Promises, you didn't hear me promise to close the factory. The Minister of the Factory doesn't close. The factory shall be closed if, in the context of the procedures in force where they play an important role in the inspection service, the technological solution is found to be such that it is environmentally inappropriate and that the factory cannot obtain an operating permit, but we know what time it is, the deadline is October 2007, until then and if the measurements show that the operational monitoring is such that it does not exceed the value, then there is no formal procedural possibility for the competent inspectorate to propose such a rigorous measure as you mentioned, i.e. the closure of the factory. However, I said that we have before us a complicated procedure for obtaining an IPDC environmental permit, the last deadline is October next year, and if after this procedure it turns out that the factory cannot obtain the necessary technological solutions, then this company cannot obtain agreement to continue its production. As for the work of the expert council, which met 12 times, his work has always been public, there have been many press conferences. The key purpose of the Ministry of Environment and Space was to bring together such local people, the Municipality of Koper, the owner of the factory and the country, the Government, together with the inspections and the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment. All of these are also members of this expert council, and our key purpose was to find financial resources to enable the owner to move the company's activities to a different location. This proposal is still up to date. We also found a convenient financial arrangement. I want this to be done in agreement with the owner, because the owner is the one who will then decide whether or not to accept this financial arrangement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u279	Thank you. Procedurally, my friend Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u280	Yes, of course, the honourable President, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, would take this opportunity and once again tell the honourable Minister. Your inspection service found it necessary to shut down the company on May 9th, and you dismissed that decision on May 15th, so it wrote down the work. These are the facts. This factory has been contaminating the environment for 40 years, a respected minister. And the measurements that you performed "post festivals" in this environment were predicted, you've been there again and again. You have found out what you have found, and in fact, this damage is being done again and again in greater form than has been expressed so far in space. You were also warned by the inhabitants of the area with a new petition, as I said earlier, 21.11. was addressed to you. I would ask you, Madam Minister, to really define ourselves in this matter professionally, to find out the facts, because this factory is run by a foreigner who has very very low standards for environmental protection, and there is also a water-protection assembly area. Let's be aware that the whole Koper is drinking this water. If anything happens, that's your responsibility. There's a rice pipe. I'm warning you from this place that you will bear this responsibility criminally, materially and otherwise. That's gonna happen sooner or later. It is precisely because of this threat to the environment, to human security and also to the global environmental bomb that I demand that this be discussed in essence on an extended committee, because this agony has lasted for 40 years, a respected minister. There are always explosions in this factory; actual explosions of reactors, deaths of fish, pollution of the environment with exhaust gases, as the surrounding population also warns. And I don't see any other option than to either properly require the integration of modern technology into this production or to close it. That someone will say that 100 000 euros a day is produced and that this is no reason to close, forgive me, this is an attractive reason for me to insist on it with production.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u281	Thank you. As we say, we will also vote on your procedural proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. We continue with the following word by Mr Dusan Kumer, who will raise the question to the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u282	Thank you for your word, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleague and colleague! I would like to start by quoting one of the key positions of Prime Minister Janez Janša in 2003, when the National Assembly first addressed the SIB bank affair at an extraordinary meeting. We all remember that at the time it was the top topic of the opposition, of today's position, to argue clientelistic and corrupt state in the country. I quote: "Only someone who has power and connections from before and who has strengthened them when he comes to power can lead things so that no one answers that the competent institutions do not file criminal complaints and that individuals are greatly enriched in doing so. This is not about ideological reasons for connections, but these political connections enable corruption, allow non-transparent action and enable the work of state institutions to be blocked. The official institution the Government has in place to prevent corruption has warned about the matter, nothing has happened, the theft has continued," the end of the quote. Many more texts and judgments were delivered at these two extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly on this affair, about this thieving, as Mr Janša and Mr Bajuk have called it. But look at the farce of this story, this affair! Now that the former greatest acquaintances of this affair are Mr Janša and Mr Bajuk, in the Government, the same Government has concluded with the former procurator of Energy, against whom proceedings are being conducted in connection with this affair, the SIB affair, the rental contract for the premises that the District Court is renting in Ljubljana. What can a person think about such an exercise of executive power? Therefore, Minister Sturm, I ask you: Do you think it is decent and moral that an institution that lastly conducts criminal proceedings against a citizen, because of an illegal economic act that has received a great label of corruption and clientism, with this same citizen, enters into a legal relationship? Secondly: What premises are used by the Ministry and which are used by the judicial authorities? Who owns the Ministry and who does it rent? Who are the owners of the other premises he rents, and how much is the rent?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u284	Thank you for your word. Thank you, too, for asking the question. However, I must say that the honourable Member has put the first part of the question completely new, has not referred it in writing, has written the question in a completely different form. So I must say, obviously this is becoming some kind of practice in this National Assembly. However, if the honourable Member wished to receive an accurate answer to the question raised, it would be advisable to design it at an appropriate time for this business. Let me answer the next one first. The Ministry of Justice uses spaces on Zupančičeva, Glinska, Dalmatia and Beethoven for its own needs. The premises in Zupančičeva and Glinska are owned by the Republic of Slovenia and in Dalmatia and Beethoven are rented. However, the Ministry, in addition to its administrations for the enforcement of criminal sanctions since this year, also has in place premises for which rental contracts have been concluded by judicial authorities. The Ministry entered into the leases concluded by the courts, the prosecutions and the state defences and, of course, continued with the contracts adopted. In doing so, the Ministry has also worked very hard to reduce rents and has saved 100 million in this year's rents. Of course, lenders are very different, among them we find both private-owned companies and companies, as well as political parties. Thus one of the courts in Slovenia also uses business premises where the lessee is a political party, which also belongs to the honourable Member, who asked this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u285	Thank you. Comrade Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u286	Thank you very much. First of all, given the question of time raised by the Member States. I will quote the Prime Minister of the Government, who, on the occasion of being an opposition MEP, said in this bench, "In normal parliaments - and I think our parliament is normal - the opposition asks, the government answers, but not that you have to ask questions so many and so many days earlier." You have been in power for more than two years and could also change the Rules of Procedure if this is an obstacle. Another time. The logistics sector within the Ministry of Justice, the Directorate of Justice, in its description, has tasks relating to the provision of all material and spatial contracts for regulation, in view of Minister Virant's assurance that the information system is better than it was in the past, could obtain this information at a minimum time, even if this morning he asked this question if the information system actually works. Secondly, I will give the information that I have taken from the network because I do not have access to this information system: the Ljubljana District Court's economic department for new premises on Miklosičeva Street in Ljubljana pays 6 million tolars, that is 25 000 euros a month's rent to Domitilje, where one of the representatives and owners of Igor Jurij Pogačar, who is known from the well-known, even more famous SIB affair. In short, I'm asking again, Minister. Do you think that this is ethically, ethically - and I don't know what else to add - that what your client and most of the ministers of this government in this National Assembly said years ago was negative that it was a crime, today with these same people making legal deals?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Minister Storm.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u288	Thank you, too, for this question. I must reject the re-respected Member. He did not ask questions that could be answered on the basis of the information we have. His question was: What spaces does the Ministry of Justice use? The Ministry of Justice does not use the said premises. I told you what premises the Ministry of Justice is using. The business space he was talking about is being used, as I see, by the court. If Mr Kumer had addressed his question correctly, he would certainly have received very precise information. But unfortunately, he didn't do it. Let me also say that the Ministry of Justice has entered into the leases concluded by the District Court, the District Court, where former President Zalar, who is not currently President of the Court, has been. The relations that were concluded at the time are now continuing, and this is also why the District Court is also using these premises. However, it is impossible to predict in advance what Mr Kumer has in mind when he asks the question. That is why I would like to ask a more precise question in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u289	Comrade Kumer procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u290	Thank you so much for saying that. In accordance with Article 246, I propose a broader debate, but within this I propose to obtain more accurate information and to argue with the following. Since you served me in the first answer with information about the premises that one of the political parties rents, this is the party that I belong to, and not the Ministry, but obviously those that are involved in regulating things in this logistics sector or regulating the Directorate of Justice, whose director is Rajko Kotnik, if you got this information, could get all the other information. My question was: Which premises are used by the Ministry and the authorities? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] But no matter what, once again, you're making excuses, but you found one piece that doesn't belong in the Ministry, but you found information. And as you are [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] And the way you are [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u291	Minister Storm, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u292	We found the information, we could also find this information that I gave you. [[...]] I therefore propose that I obtain this precise information in the broader debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u293	Thank you. That's what's gonna happen. We will vote on your procedural proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. The next question will be raised by Member Boštjan Zagorac, the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u294	Thank you for your word, Mr President-in-Office, Your Honor-present, the rare one you insist on. Dear Minister! The question is very specific and I also expect very concrete answers. I don't expect a political explanation, I expect specific answers in numbers. To: How many resting places do you probably have ahead of you - were envisaged in the project of construction of the highway between Lendava and Maribor? How many of these resting places are actually going to be built and how much percentage of this route is foreseen for the so-called SOS runway? For the information which is, or the rumours, however, I hope that you will demente them, which are spreading, do not show any good. And all I want, given that we're both so familiar, that we know how much of this has to be on such a relationship, I expect your numbers. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u295	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u296	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for the question, Mr Member, Bosniak Zagorac. So, as part of the country's plans for motorway sections adopted on the fifth transport corridor, the following monitoring facilities are planned on the route between Maribor and Lendava, i.e. the Pinks. In Maribor, this is type four, gas service, motel, restaurant, resting place. The national location plan is just before the reception. Next up is Lenart, Lormania, this is type two, it's a gas station and a rest stop. Then the next Sveti Juri, Slovenske gorica, is type 3, petrol service, restaurant, resting place. In Murski Sobota - type 4, gas service, motel, restaurant, rest area. Dolinsky, this is Tournament, type one, it's just a resting place. The last one is in Lendava, which is like Pinke, Type 2, gas service and a rest stop. For motorway sections from Maribor to Pinke according to national location plans, construction is planned in full, i.e. normal, transversal profile, that is 26.2 meters with phase construction option. In view of the density of the intended traffic, a study of possible rationalisations of normal transversal profiles on the ferry highway to the border with Hungary was prepared in 2002 from the point of view of the cost-effectiveness of the investment, which was also addressed by the Darsa Council in January 2003. In his conclusions, he agreed and supported the proposed rationalisations, which in fact meant the construction of the motorway from Maribor to Pirnica with withdrawal belts in the profile 24.6 meters and in the profile of 21.6 meters in the border with Hungary. The conclusions of the study served as one of the basis for the evaluation of investment values adopted by the Resolution on the National Road Construction Programme in 2004. The total length of the pomura highway is 84 kilometers from the Dragučov to Pink. The exit belt of the motorway is thus envisaged on the Maribor-Lenart motorway from the beginning of the break in the Draguchov section to the Pirnica connection, that is a total of 5 kilometers. The exit belt is performed on the bridge across the Mura on the Vučja vas - Beltinci highway 1 kilometer. This means that the pomurski motorway leg will be carried out with a runway of a total length of 6 kilometres, which is approximately 7% of the total length of the motorway leg. In doing so, it should be pointed out that land purchases have been implemented for the full previous profile and that bridge facilities and certain support measures that could not be built later are already being built in the first phase in the width of the full profile, that is to say 26.2 metres. And once the traffic needs are demonstrated, the motorway can be upgraded without any additional costs, except for what needs to be invested in the asphalt coating and the lower structure of the motorway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u297	Thank you. Complementary question, colleague Boštjan Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u298	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive opinion. I must say that conviction, and I will not be mysterious, one of your partners - not in the design of the project, but in the specificisation of this highway, is a little different from your wishes and projects. According to the information I have, however, I believe that you will correct me, there is no work for any resting place on the route from Lendava to Maribor right now. I'm sorry, this is about the partners that the country has chosen. You mentioned 7% of the lane, according to my information it's 1.3% or one third of the lane, for which you have permission at this point in time when the works are already being carried out. You know, on the one hand, that reminds me of that joke between the old and the new politics where old politicians invite a new one, and he says, "Look what I've created!" And the house comes, and the house with the pool, and it says, "How could you do that? He said, "You see those remotes? Among them is 100 meters apart and not 50 meters apart, as the law says, so built the house!" A new one after two months of office says, "Do you see that highway? They say no. He said, "You see, that's how my house and my pool were built. I hope that in this case the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not do so and will actually do what you have told me and what is also written in the project, and you will actually do. But according to the information I have, I hope you will deny me, because you still have this option, no construction work is being done for any resting place and currently construction works for only one third [[...]] [[End warning sign]] the whole relationship of the buffer belt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u299	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, an additional reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u300	Thank you very much for having an additional answer. It is true that not all facilities connected to the resting place are being built at this time, after all these locations that I have mentioned. However, this is an obligation from the location plan. And first you have to build a highway and then all the accompanying objects. And the construction of these buildings will also follow in line with the annual - that is, all these buildings and construction sites will be listed in the annual development and reconstruction plan, which will follow in the coming years. Question number two: this percentage I said is true. I suggest to the Member that it may also be given in writing details on which sections are to be built and very easily calculated, a percentage of the highway that will be with the drawbars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u301	Thank you. Procedurally, colleague Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u302	Thank you for your word. Given the fact that the Minister has more agreed with my statements, at least with regard to what is currently being done and what the location plan foresees, and given that we are in this National Assembly - I am sorry that there are no more coalition Members who have been so easily pressing the 'yes' button when it comes to the state budget. There we have earmarked funds, even for 2007, and you and I both know that in 2007 and 2008 this is possible for this purpose or the funds are foreseen, but it will not be implemented for the part for which we have earmarked funds. I propose that the National Assembly for such a, I will say, non-concrete production or spending of budgetary resources should be carried out in a broader debate. Dear Minister, if possible and, if possible, whether we are too used to this government. I don't believe it, I really don't believe it, and this has taught me two years of experience to do one thing. I think it's simple or I know that there's simply been a lack of funding, either of financial means or of desire, of will or of using someone. Maybe. I don't know. I guess so. And I have every intention to do so, so I can reasonably assume that these funds have gone somewhere else. There is no documentation yet, no documents allowing you to actually realize both the resting places and the retirement zones as foreseen in the project. It therefore seems to me that such a banal, inadvertent spending of budgetary resources is being discussed by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u303	Thank you, too. We will decide on your procedural proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly tomorrow under the voting point. Mrs. Pecanova, can I ask you to be quiet on the phone? We will adjourn the meeting of the National Assembly in five minutes for Mrs Pečanova to make a phone call to the end. I'm adjourning the session. We'll pick her up at 7:57. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u304	Dear Members! We continue with the earlier adjourned meeting due to the Member's telephone conversation. As long as Minister Christmas is with us, just enough to let the other MPs know he's a mag. Tomaž Šteba, whose question was addressed to Minister Bozic, decided and reclassified his question in writing. I thank the Minister for his participation. Thank you. However, Member Ivan Yelen has the floor. The question will be raised by the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u305	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Messengers and Members, Minister, Ministers! The Wildlife and Hunting Act of Article 81, paragraph 3, provides that the Government or the competent ministry shall designate game operators and grant a concession for the sustainable management of game in hunting. Most of the implementing rules have already been issued by the former Minister, some by the current Minister, but to date the question of the designation of catchers has not been resolved. At coalition coordinations on 21.9.2005 and 24.12.2005, it was decided unanimously that the Minister was obliged to ensure the implementation of the existing law and that concessions were signed as soon as possible. The Government has so far argued that the case cannot be realized because a constitutional assessment is under way at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to that article. As of 9.11.2006, this excuse is no longer available. The Constitutional Court has issued a decision in which it has responded to the initiator for the assessment of the constitutionality of the Wildlife and Hunting Act and has therefore committed the Government to address that issue. As we know, the Ministry has decided on a different path, rather than implementing the Constitutional Court's decision and amending the existing law, it prefers to draw up a completely new Law on Wildlife and Hunting, avoiding the immediate granting of the required concessions resulting from the provisions of the existing law, and has also obtained a decree for possible future exclusions of constitutional commitment. I therefore ask, Madam Minister: Why not apply the applicable Law on Fisheries as required by the Constitutional Court's decision?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u306	Thank you. Minister, please respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u307	Thank you for your word, thank you for that question. The Ministry of Agriculture has prepared in due time a proposal for a regulation on the granting of concessions for the sustainable management of game in the fisheries of the Republic of Slovenia, but the Government has not taken or issued a decision on the issue of that regulation, but has ordered the Ministry at its 38th regular meeting on 1.9. Decisions to draw up a new proposal for a law. In order to facilitate the resolution of the problem, a proposal has also been submitted to the Constitutional Court for priority consideration in order to ensure the proper implementation of the law as soon as possible or to prepare appropriate new solutions. As you have already established, the Constitutional Court of 11.10. and 9.11. decided on the compatibility of the applicable legislation in the field of wildlife, hunting, forestry and environmental protection with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and the Ministry has already drawn up a draft law amending and supplementing the applicable law on wild and hunting in accordance with these decisions. The Ministry therefore did not take the wrong path in its work, but followed the decisions of the Government and the decisions of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u308	Thank you very much for your answer, the supplementary question, Mr Yelen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u309	We disagree with the new law. We still believe that the Constitutional Court's decision must be implemented without evasiveness, which has become almost the practice of all governments, as well as the current one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u310	Thank you for your opinion. We continue to ask questions from the Members. Member Breda Pecan has the floor and will ask the justice ministers her question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Lovro Storm! You certainly know very well the Constitution, given that this is your area, but I will still read article 11 of the Constitution, where it says that the official language in Slovenia is Slovenian, and in the municipality where the Italian or Hungarian national communities live, the official language is Italian or Hungarian. The Notariat Act, in the second paragraph of Article 13, also states that in the areas of municipalities where the official language is also Italian or Hungarian, it consists of notary documents at the request of a party in both official languages - notary, of course. This means that we can understand this provision of Article 13 of the Notariat Act so that there should be a notary appointed in bilingual areas of our country, trained or should be able to speak an active Italian or Hungarian language, in addition to, of course, the active knowledge of Slovenian. That is why I ask you, Mr Minister, how was it that on Friday, December 8th, they were appointed notary in a free notary seat based in Koper and Isola to persons who do not have the proper knowledge of the Italian language, according to my information? Although I am aware that on 25 August this year, the Ministry of Justice in the Official Journal called for nine free Notary cities, including one with its seat in Cyprus and one with its seat in Isola. Given that it is generally known that the area of the Koper District Court is, and in this context also the municipality of Koper and Izola, a bilingual area, I ask you, Mr Minister: How did you not place in this invitation one of the conditions for the appointment of notaries the active knowledge of the Italian language? I am well aware that Article 8 of the Notariat Act does not state that notary must actively master one of the two official languages in bilingual areas in addition to the active knowledge of Slovenian. However, I think that the above-mentioned Article 13 paragraph, second paragraph of Article 13, is clear enough to suggest that either it is necessary to know Italian actively with us or it must have a permanent judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u312	Thank you. Minister Storm, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u313	Thank you for your word and also for your question. It is true that the Notariat Act, as mentioned by the honourable Member, does not lay down, in Article 8, as a condition of Italian and Hungarian knowledge in the case that the Notary has its seat in areas where the official language is Italian and Hungarian. And it is also true that the second paragraph of Article 13 of the Notariat Act, as you mentioned, states that in areas where the official language is also Italian and Hungarian to draw up notary documents if the party uses Italian or Hungarian, in both official languages. However, the fourth paragraph of Article 13 provides that if the parties or other participants do not understand the language in which the instrument is drawn up, the instrument must contain a clause that their content has been fully translated. He shall translate the notary or, at the request of the party, the interpreter. The provision of Article 55 of the Notariat Act, which provides in the first paragraph that an interpreter must participate in the composition of the notary record if one of the participants in the legal business does not master the official language or if so requested by the party when he or she does not understand the language in which the instrument is drawn up. In the second paragraph, it further provides that an interpreter may also be an employee of a notary if he has all the characteristics for written witnesses. Even if the knowledge of Italian or Hungarian is not one of the legal conditions to be met by candidates for appointment to notary posts in bilingual areas, I would like to point out that none of the newly named notaries in the notary city in Isola and Koper is a problem with the knowledge and use of the Italian language in communicating with the parties. Both of them have also so far, one as a lawyer, the other as a notary deputy, communicated with the parties in Italian as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u314	Thank you. Complementary question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u315	The first thing I have to say to you, Mr Minister, is that the lady you mentioned, as a second, does not actively speak the Italian language. I would also like to remind you, Mr Minister, that in article 13 you speak paragraphs 3 and 4 about the use of foreign language and interpreters, it is very well understood when it comes to foreigners, not citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who are Italian or Hungarian nationalities. Therefore, at the end of this, I ask you: Will you, Mr Minister, propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to submit to the National Assembly a proposal to supplement the law on notariat, in which you would complete Article 7(8) by reading: "To also actively master the Slovenian language and actively speak Italian or Hungarian in bilingual areas."? Thus, we would have no doubt understood that a notary who performs a public service that is a free profession but does a public service - it is appointed by the State - must know Italian in bilingual areas where Italian or Hungarian are also used as an official language; as judges must know, as lawyers and many other public servants should know. Of course, this is not a public servant, but it is a man who performs public service and public affairs. He should therefore be able to speak both languages as an official language.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u317	Your Honor. I accept your initiative. In the next amendment to the Notariat Act, we will place your initiative among the initiatives of all those who wish to contribute in any way to improving the current legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u318	Thank you very much for your answer. The next question to be asked is Mrs Marjetka Uhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u319	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, all of you here, have a good evening. Since the Secretary of Defense has apologized, I'd like you to give me a written answer so I'll probably get it sooner. I ask him about the drought in agriculture, or I wonder: When will the final agricultural damage assessment be prepared this year? When will the government deal with this, when will congregation commissions, congregations, and farmers receive answers? What's the schedule for this? I would like to ask Minister Erjavac for that answer. On the same subject, I also have a question for the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, for Mrs Marija Lukačič. It is during this time that farmers are given decisions to pay back overpayments for the drought that took place in 2003 and paid in 2004. How is it that they receive these decisions during this period? Is this again one of the inherited tasks that you must perform? However, it is extremely unpleasant, and in these days it adds further to other unpleasant questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u320	Thank you. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u321	Thank you, too, for that question. Now, the decisions on which you ask, issue our ministry and serve them to the beneficiary through the Agency for Agricultural Markets, such as the provision of the Administrative Procedure Act. This is the case for complaints lodged in the past, namely the 2003 Decisions. Let me say that there were 2,700 such complaints which we inherited and that we are in fact now closing and cleaning all these complaints back, sending them away on the day about 40, so that this task will now be completed, but it must be said that if in the appeal procedure it is found that the beneficiary has received more withdrawals than the actual damage, it is due, in accordance with the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents, to return this difference within three years of the legality of this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u322	Thank you very much for your answer. Would you like a refill? I'm just asking if we could raise your hand a little higher next time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u323	I wonder: Is this with the law we passed in 2005, or has this law already been in force? If you can answer that, because it seems strange to me that the law should be taken back or that this would apply to those who have already received it in 2004, we should now return these funds. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u324	Thank you. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u325	This is in accordance with the last amendment to the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents and also applies to these complaints.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Member Bevk alone will ask the Minister of Finance a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u327	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Slovenia will join the euro area as of 1 January as the 13th country of the European Union. This will strengthen Slovenia's financial and economic ties with Europe. Both governments, which have managed to meet the Maastricht criteria that were a condition for the adoption of the euro, are responsible for this project, with good strategic and operational decisions. The government's subjugation to the future of Slovenia can only be questionable in terms of the successful development of Slovenia, as at the expense of taking over the euro, the government has deliberately waived the necessary reforms, neglected dialogue with the social partners, engaged in imprudent and suspicious privatisation operations, which were more targeted at friends than the country. It has inconsistently reformed the assembly structures and what else could be found. In taking over the euro, we must also commend the Bank of Slovenia, which is a household in Slovenia with Eurocalculators, so that residents can better monitor price conversion. It is sadder, however, that the economic operator is already raising prices, exasperating products and lives so that they can earn more at the expense of taking over the euro. We advocate the non-interference of policies in the economy, but this government will have to answer the question of how, due to the acquisition of the euro and the general auctions that we have witnessed, it will have to regulate the fiscal policy of the country. Incentives will be beneficial for the Minister of Finance, as raising prices by 5% on average amounts to higher revenues from the state budget under value added tax. This price increase corresponds to a 1% increase in VAT, which is what the government actually wants. As a Social Democrat, however, I am more interested in and concerned about how people will survive, whose real income will be reduced by 5, 10 or even more thousand tolars by the end of the month. That is why I would like to ask you, Minister Bajuk: How much will inflation in Slovenia increase by your assessment of the introduction of the euro? By what measures will you limit the growth of domestic inflation and keep it below the European average in order to ensure the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and that the situation of the available monthly income of the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia in the European family will not deteriorate? I also wonder: How are we at operational level ready to take over the euro? By the way, it's only 17 days, three hours, 44 minutes and 42 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u328	Thank you. Minister Bajuk, please answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u329	Thank you so much for asking. Otherwise, it is difficult to answer in such a short time everything you have highlighted. It is true that the Republic of Slovenia has been in the euro area since the end of 2003 and until now, since the decision that Slovenia will actually enter the euro area has fallen, that this decision has been taken under the previous Government. It is also true that in this three-year period, since we entered the ERM2 waiting room, there have been 5/6 below this government and 1/6 below the previous one. However, I have never, and I am always aware, and I have also pointed out that this is actually a national project, which does not have to be attributed to anyone else but society as a whole, because it was in such an atmosphere that it was possible to carry out certain things, but among which I have always highlighted and also underline the importance of the social agreement and the respect of the social agreement, both from partners and from the Government itself. You are well aware, honourable Member, that, in the case of tax legislation alone, the changes since 2004 have not been frozen, we have introduced them substantially because the rate was reduced, the minimum rate of 17% to 16%, as regards income, and as part of the social agreement. And since we also knew how to respect this, this respect actually bore its fruit, which we also have today. As far as fear of price hikes is concerned. We have faced this problem from the very beginning. We have had at our disposal all the experience of other Member States that have taken over the euro. And we followed whatever their predictions and instructions were to avoid such a problem. That is why we have also insisted, and this National Assembly has adopted a law that has introduced a double price labelling since 1 March 2006. This creates the opportunity for people to get to know each other a lot better and start understanding new values and new numbers, because this can be crucial precisely because of these things, which are also your concern, or certainly ours, on the part of the Government. As far as inflation is concerned. There's a lot of talk in these days, but more talk about price increases. The fact is that the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia published data concerning inflation for November. In November inflation actually fell below the level envisaged by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development six weeks ago. It is essential that this inflation fell mainly because they fell or did not rise, as predicted at the time, the prices of oil and petroleum derivatives. What is called "core-inflation" from a technical point of view is said to be the heart of inflation in Slovenia, but it still judges around 1% and there are no clear remittances from this point of view. It is true, however, that we have also organised, in addition to double price labelling, the mobilisation of civil society in this area. The government has supported the Union of Consumers, which has introduced into Slovenia a network of organisations that actually care about whether prices rise or not. That is why we have also asked the media to share what this network actually reveals with the Slovenian public. Because, finally, we are living in an open market economy and it would be pointless to introduce a price freeze now, which would be completely pointless and unacceptable. We therefore bet everything on better information for the population, which is what is happening. You yourself mentioned this symbolic act, which is very important by the Bank of Slovenia, which has sent every household a small calculator that allows you to share with 239,064, which is difficult for every person to do so quickly. So we are counting on the informed population actually to do what it has in the free market economy; and this is the right to buy or not buy or buy from a neighbor. People Voting With Their Own [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] I think this is very important, so I need everyone, not only the Government, but also civil organisations and business organisations, and this is the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and the new [[..]] [[...]] [[Warning signal.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u330	Your answer time is up. Complementary question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u331	Thank you very much for your answers, Mr. Secretary, so that you can continue, I would say that. The euro price commitment should, of course, have been concluded much earlier, and banks carried out these incentives at the beginning of the year. For example, some services were encouraged by the NCBs by 116%, by the Postal Service of Slovenia by 164%, we can read this on the websites in these two. We still have problems with the technical takeover of the euro. We don't know, or most people don't know when the ATMs will stop or when they'll be working the last day, the next day in the new year, etc., when people can get enough cash in their wallet. After that, I read on the website today that problems with sorting devices that exclude Slovenian coins for 1 euro are counterfeit and not recognized. In addition, I have heard today that coins with Slovenian symbols will drown in this great European banking system and that in a few years we will pay with German, Austrian and Italian euro coins, which will nevertheless be a symbolic problem. Then I want to know: between December 29th and January 3rd, electronic banking is expected to be disabled in most banks. Is it true that only 95 thousand 856 thousand dollars or 400 euros per month in student work and not more than 100,000 as before will be taxed downwards? I could ask a few more questions like this. I wonder: How do you eliminate these critical points by the end of the year or by 1.1.2007? It's only 17 days now, 3 hours 37 minutes and 8 seconds. This watch runs on the website.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u332	Thank you very much. There's a lot of questions again. How much memory won't fool me, but I'll go on where I ended up when my time ran out. Also, on the basis of the Government's advice, the Association of Traders has called on all its members, and this is currently being described. The declaration of their membership shall be described in order to respect the price rounding provided for in the law. These data are also transmitted to the Consumer Union. We believe in this part. However, as regards the technical preparations for the takeover of the euro, this procedure has been going on for 18 months, we have a coordination committee chaired by both Banka Slovenije and the Ministry of Finance, organised in various segments, including all entrepreneurs, organisations and an infrastructure that can respond to the problems that arise. Today you mentioned a phenomenon to me that the machine does not accept a Slovenian coin for one euro. I don't know. I'm sure we'll work this out. There's gonna be a lot of that going to happen. As far as your concern is concerned, if we use other euro in Slovenia, which will not have a Slovenian image: this will certainly happen, because it is also not forbidden, if you happen to drive a little across the border from Nova Gorica in Gorica, you will be able to pay with the Slovenian euro and you will certainly get some Finnish euro back, and you will not see that this is the case. Of course this is going to happen. But there won't be so many Euros with Slovenian images when, say, with French or German, I think everyone understands that. It is important, however, that the Slovenian coin only has the Slovenian image and the Slovenian messages. I am very proud that these expert commissions and finally the Government have decided to write down Prešeren's words "Let all the nations live" as a message of our national hope and also of our commitment to the world public to respect everything. This is a message from this small Slovenia to us and others. But as for the specifics you asked me, these days they are also coming to households with the latest brochure, where it is explained in a very popular way. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] How, what hours and when these things will be resolved. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u333	Thank you. We have completed the first round of questions sent and are moving on to the second round. Member of the Parliament, Mr Lovtišar Bebler, has the floor for the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u334	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected council, so to speak, a chamber choir, distinguished gentlemen of the ministers. Mr Minister, Dr Lovro Šturm, the question that follows and I am referring to you certainly seems familiar to you, since I have already put it to you at the 19th regular meeting of the National Assembly in July this year. But it was then, and so it is today: When does the Republic of Slovenia intend to sign and ratify the United Nations Convention against Corruption? July this year, your answer was short and concise. You said, "I guess it's already this year." The year 2006 is running out, without a fortune teller, I can assume that your prediction will not come true, and my predictions will come true, namely, that the first conference of the Member States of this Convention will pass without us, i.e. without Slovenia. And so it happened, it happened on December 10th this year. So, please, Minister, for a clear answer: When will the convention be signed and then ratified, if possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u335	Thank you. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u336	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Thank you also for the question, honourable Member. Your Honor, the National Assembly! Let me repeat myself, as I have said once before, I have indeed expressed the hope that we will be able to fully ratify this convention this year, but my expectation was related to the assessment that the Constitutional Court will complete and complete the assessment of the constitutionality of both laws which currently govern the area in Slovenia. For only after the Constitutional Court has carried out its judgment will it be possible to finally assess which body and which body it is. Surely, the Constitutional Court will also make this statement, which will satisfy the conditions laid down in Article 6 of the Convention. Notwithstanding the fact that we are expecting an assessment of the Constitutional Court, let me also say that all the preparatory work is going on, but not enough. Let me also mention that, in the meantime, we have prepared everything necessary for the language review, so that everything is ready from this point of view and we are waiting for a final decision. Meanwhile, there has also been encouraging news, Slovenia has been placed on a higher level in the international comparative review, which assesses the situation in the areas of corruption, assessed better than last year, so this is also something that needs to be told to all of us in particular, and I should also point out this.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Additional question, please welcome Member Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u338	Thank you so much for saying that again. So, the fact that Slovenia is now slightly better classified as regards corruption, with this particular case and the problem that we have not yet ratified this Convention, is in fact not directly related. More or less, it would even be considered that this is probably also in some correlation that we are now better successful in some correlation with the fact that the anti-corruption Commission is still operating and has therefore not been repealed, as envisaged by the law now being judged before the Constitutional Court. Nor does the fact that the Constitutional Court has not yet ruled on this case mean that we could not sign and ratify the United Nations Conventions because I am convinced that this would be appropriate. Also because Slovenia is encircled by those countries that want to do more in the fight against corruption. You also told me back then, but we don't want to make any outward impressions, just to sign something that isn't already in front of you. By ratifying, we want to move from words to action. So, what do you, Mr. Secretary, forbid you to go from word to deed? We know that corruption is a very serious social disease, and Slovenia has somehow committed itself to following modern trends in this area in many areas. And: Will you go from words to deeds, and when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u339	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u340	Thank you very much for this additional question, which allows me to say more about this matter. Let me repeat something, of course, once again, that the assessment of the Constitutional Court is very important, because it is not just one law, but both laws, under constitutional law. So also the law that governs the functioning of the current commission. It is therefore difficult to judge what the Constitutional Court's decision will be, and we are therefore waiting in this case. This does not mean that the Government does not operate in other areas, and certainly the work of the Government so far has shown and contributed to this - in this part I cannot agree with the assessment of the honourable Member that only the functioning of the current Commission would help to do so - it is a complex assessment, helping to improve our common assessment. Of course, the Government is taking various measures in these areas. I am sure that we will experience something new this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u341	Thank you very much. And we are going to move on to the last, 36th question raised by Dr. Mitja Slavinec. The National Assembly is yours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u342	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, Mr. Janez Podobnik. Technological development has also good effects, and one of them is over-pollution of the environment. One such example is the load of the environment by electromagnetic waves. Fortunately, in general, this is not enough to go beyond the natural background. But it's harder and worse, of course, around the sources of electromagnetic activity, so around the towers. If these towers are outside the settlements, there is no problem, but if the transmitters are placed in a divided settlement, then the problems for the inhabitants living there are so much worse. This is not the case, however, with a rule which distinguishes the maximum permitted value according to the fragmented settlement and the areas outside the settlements. The problem of excessive radiation and resulting health threats are often noted by locals across Slovenia, we can give several examples, and one of them is also in Pomurje, for example, a transmitter on a hill in Pečarovci. In all of this, I was stabbed in the eye and I see the core of the problem in two facts. The owners of broadcast towers often additionally mount transmitters, which then exceed the permitted values and overly burden the environment. The second thing, however, is often influenced by measurements and analyses - such was the case in the above mentioned Cavemen - of abuse or misinterpretation of the rules, of what else is in the settlement, of what is outside the settlement. For this reason, Mr. Minister, I would like to ask: Does your Ministry have control over the installation of additional transmitters on existing towers in Slovenia, and do you issue appropriate permits for this? And if so, then I wonder: How many of these transmitters are there, and what is the response power of the transmitters specifically in Pomur? However, if you do not have this information, I wonder: How will you prevent further unauthorized and unauthorized installation of these transmitters? Ter: What will you do to remove those transmitters that are mounted without permission and therefore critically endanger the health of the residents around the transmitters? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u343	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u344	Thank you very much. Dear Member, Madam Member! First of all, I would like to tell you that in the second half of April, in the context of a working visit to the Pomur region, I was alone in a long conversation with the Pečarovec region, where I was warned that in the fact that in the vicinity of the transmitter in this area, several citizens have suffered from the worst forms of disease, including cancer. Then I also took a serious approach and engaged myself to say the owners of certain devices at this location. I immediately turned to Radiotelevision Slovenia, as well as to Mobile Company, as well as to the Institute for Unionized Radiation. One of the answers, which cheered me up at least in this sense, was by RTV, they say they will place a new location for the broadcast tower in a nearby municipality where it will not be near the immediate settlements. On the other hand, I would like to tell you that the Ministry and itself are aware of the pressing problems in identifying the potential effects of non-ionised electromagnetic radiation on humans and the environment. You are right, there is a lot of concern here, and people's dissatisfaction is, and I think it was right that in the past the Ministry of Information Society, together with the ILO at the time, had decided, and in the fact that, in order to find the greatest possible consensus of the profession, the ESM Forum had already been established, and that is, the place where the responses were to be consistent, timely and professionally correct. The Code of Good Practice also applies in this forum; this means an agreement, strengthening dialogue with the local community, the public, the environmental, aesthetic aspect, etc. With regard to your last question, unfortunately at the ADRU or within our institutions we do not have depending on the number and response strength of the transmitters for just Pomurje's exact numbers. But if you do, we will go from congregation to congregation and get this number. Control is responsible - this regulation you mentioned - for electromagnetic radiation in the natural and living environment - is a competent inspection for the environment and nature. For a high frequency radiation source, periodic measurements should be made every third calendar year and for a low frequency source every fifth calendar year. The environmental inspection carried out 67 inspections last year and carried out a total of 43 measures. In 2006, 26 checks were carried out and 16 measures were taken. In particular, these measures were related to the provision of first measurements or operational monitoring. If we are specific to the construction of mobile phone base stations, investors should also receive a professional evaluation in the process of issuing building permits in addition to the project documentation. In the process of granting a valid authorisation, the investor must also attach a report on the first measurements of the operational monitoring of the size of the electromagnetic field. Here you can see if the values were measured within the limits allowed. In particular, I must tell you that in the case of a broadcaster in Pečarovce, there were a large number of applications from citizens and institutions, including the congregation being engaged, Puconci, we have recently provided the municipality with a very detailed response. There have been multiple measurements, and the limit values have not been exceeded once. However, the measurements were often carried out. Any base station whose power output exceeds 100 watts shall, according to the definition of a high frequency radiation source, mean that the investor must in this case choose such technical solutions as to ensure that the limits are not exceeded. The first measurement of the size of the electromagnetic field is important and the owner must provide operational monitoring. This means periodic measurements. In this case, the administrative authority or the ministry of certain facilities is, but for others, which are, as an auxiliaries, administrative units. In order to build stand-alone buildings of mobile public telecommunications network base stations, the investor must obtain a building permit under the procedure as applicable for the acquisition of a construction permit. So, according to the answer, I would also like to propose again, as I have already suggested, that this content should be brought to the attention of our Committee on the Environment in detail, perhaps in some detail, once again, we have talked about this topic. I see again and again that there are conflicts on the ground between the country, the investor and the one who issued the building permit, and again I offer the forum, that is, the place where this communication would take place, to the greatest extent possible, I would say, an understanding of this activity, i.e. an EMS forum that works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u345	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u346	Thank you very much for the answer and so much more for the initiative. I will be happy to propose to the Committee on the Environment that we meet there and try to clear things up, but more importantly, to achieve the ultimate goal and really move from this location, which is really in a cramped settlement. So I wonder, when are the owners going to move the transmitter, because they've been promising this for a very long time? The other issue is not my insistence on getting this information, but it is because it is very important information, and I will be very grateful if we can really get it as soon as possible. These are very important data for the locals themselves, and we will also see from these data that by exceeding the limit values it is one way or another. The limit values may not be exceeded as far as the values prescribed for areas outside the village are concerned, because this is the abuse that I had previously warned about, the data is being measured for that area that is supposed to be outside the village, but inside the village. For this reason, I reiterate that there is a need for strict monitoring of how many additional transmitters are mounted on each tower, because, as we see, there is no control over this. This is, of course, the key information, the total power that some tower emits, and that the rule is not misused, and if some tower is in the village area, in a shrinking violence, then account must be taken of the values that apply to the compressed settlement. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u347	Thank you, too. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u348	Thank you very much. Regarding your additional question from the letter I received and then I also forwarded it to the municipality, which, I am sure, then also introduced the Pečarovecs, it is clear that this is a letter from the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia that they regularly carried out measurements, themselves and also the Institute for Health Protection. The results of both institutions are identical and prove that at the most critical point they reach 24% of the allowed value of electromagnetic radiation, if I am not mistaken, it is in the parish. It's near the church. At other measurement points, however, a rate below 10% of the permitted value under the Regulation is measured. However, they began the process of placing a new location for the broadcast tower in the neighboring congregation, where they would move their radiation equipment, which is also the source of radiation. Then here's the answer from Mobile. If RTV object were to move to another location, of course Mobitel would also move its base station to this new location, but it says that, after their experience, it means that in this case we should place at least one or even a new base station in areas that would be left without a signal. So it's also important where the location itself is. And another information, measurements - this is a global data for Slovenia - measurements carried out in the area of low - and high-frequency sources of electromagnetic radiation so far by the authorised institutions in Slovenia - we are talking about authorised, they are authorised by the Environment Agency - show that the burden of the natural and living environment with electromagnetic radiation does not exceed the limits set out in this Regulation. It also follows from these measurements that the normal exposure of people to radiation of base stations in Slovenia is more than 100 times lower than the prescribed limit values, as laid down by the Regulation for the first area of protection against electromagnetic radiation. However, again with all seriousness, I open up and face this issue and I think it would be good to take advantage of this campaign, a measuring campaign within the framework of the ESM Forum project, which works with the Slovenian Community of Municipalities, which ensures that municipalities can get free rent of a measuring system and with this citizen or some location provide information on the 24-hour burden of their environment with electromagnetic radiation, especially near the base stations of mobile telephony. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-23.ana.u349	Thank you, too. I thank all ministers and ministers for their participation today and for the replies given to Members and Members. We will break the point, i.e. this item on the agenda, and continue on Monday, 18 December at 3 p.m., when the four questions of the opposition members and one ruling coalition are answered by the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša. I also hereby adjourn the 23rd session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Have a nice evening.
