ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, Mr Minister with fellow Members! Since time is gold, we continue with the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: only Bevk from 12 noon onwards, mag. Vasja Klavora, Anton Kokalj and Aloys Sok. We continue the debate and give the floor to my colleague, Mr Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good day, Mr. Secretary, on my side as well. And don't be too hard on me if I try to make you a little bitter too, without that being the goal of my contribution, I will definitely do it culturally. When the interpretation was written and filed - given that I am not overworked with your work and would think first of any other minister on the bench - I wondered whether this interpretation was worth the effort and my voice. And then I read it carefully, and I got a little excited about it, but all the doubts about how I'm supposed to decide to do it, you guys broke up on your own yesterday. With your introduction to the defense and your response to the debates and the obvious. Obviously, I have estimated that your philosophy, perhaps covered by our President of the Government, that the attack is the best defence, fits, because you went into an immediate attack on the first signatory of the request for your resolution, and you failed to do so, and this surprised me, not even a handful of politeness and cultural softness, but vice versa, you struck decisively, firmly, slightly underestimatingly, rather than as one of your client colleagues here in the hall, who repeatedly and again, when he gets the word, teaches us how to behave, so that Slovenians and Slovenians can be, but if I add, all the other viewers and viewers of all races and nationalities can be satisfied, but you have not struck the most generously, however, to the Minister of Culture at least. Personally it stabbed me, among other things, and it went a little quietly past, your relativization of awards and awards in one of your opening answers, czech, we know how these awards and awards can be made. And that's not an honor. How should such a statement make a rewarder or a rewarder feel, and how should a future cultural achievement, for example, approach you when you wait for the rewarder or the rewarder to be recognized? Perhaps my perception of your highness, Mr. Minister, is wrong, unobjective, even criminal, but it is, and I also define myself after it in relation to this interpretation. Otherwise, there were so many readings on your account yesterday, aside from those that were recorded in the interpolation, it's almost hard to find any more. However, since there was a lot of talk about the state - and probably will be today - of the situation on RTV after the adoption of the law, let me just tell you that as a viewer or user of RTV services and as a former journalist and editor of news shows within the institution, at the regional centre in Koper, I am increasingly watching TV Diary on the biggest commercial television and less on national television. And I have no comment on the autonomy and professionalism of the creators. The editorial guidelines have changed, but I find it unfavourable, and the simple information product has become better in competition, according to my subjective assessment. That's why I'm not surprised the RTV ratings are dropping. In the end, there's still a tiny but important observation from my end. I hear, read and learn from the tops of the Italian national community that the RTV leadership intends to reduce the financial grant of 200 000 euros next year to television and radio shows in Italian and to dramatically reduce the staffing situation on Radio and Television Koper-Capistria, because RTV is not intended to replace journalists and employees in the administration who are going to retire. And less resources, as I was told, are also forecasted for Slovenian programmes, which are being broadcast by the Kori Regional Centre. Well, even with this responsibility, Mr. Secretary, you can't run. That's it. So, no big concerns, but even without malice, I will support the interpolation or request for your resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Germich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I can't start my own performance without prioritizing myself, Mr Minister, that there was a lot of underestimating tone in your response, which certainly surprised me, given that I expected arguments. Surely I am joining all those who say it is a shame that you started your performance yesterday in the same style and instead of talking about the content in fact about the characteristics of the first signed, and in cultural, at least in my opinion, inappropriate way. In content, I would like to touch only one area in my opinion, which is crucial for the conduct of you and your ministry during this two-year period. I will touch on the issue related to the adoption of the RTV Act, because I think that all the conduct related to this law is talking about the fact that there was a big gap between the promises and the actual situation after the adoption of the RTV Act. Yesterday we were also able to hear for the first time clearly from one of the leading members of the SDS party that he acknowledged that he was the author of this law, which then you, as Minister of Culture, took over on behalf of the Government and forwarded to the National Assembly. It is a shame, of course, that you did not speak so transparently about this at the time of the adoption of this law, and it is a pity that this was not so clearly said by fellow Member Grims. Of course, it says that you are actually the performer of what is happening at the top of the ruling party, and then you were only in the stage when you had to do some things. And in the same way, the same system can actually be traced through a film fund, through events in Lipica. Let us see what you have promised and what you are trying to show today, that you have kept your word, that you are a man of your word. So you were talking about getting a better and cheaper RTV through the adoption of the law. Of course, I know that you are confused about how to argue this fact, and given that you have clearly written it down - and I will repeat it again, Mr Minister, even though you said yesterday that you have already tried to say it 33 times already, and today I will ask this for a simple reason, because from the difficulty in which you are, you are trying to explain, of course, it was never true that you were talking about the nominal reduction of the subscription, that is, the contribution. That's what you're saying, that's what Ambassador Grims says, and you've found a comparison of the increase in living costs with an unaltered amount of RTV contributions, which shows that the contribution actually went down by the amount of inflation. Mr. Minister, I would like to remind you of how you have done this comparison since 2004. I have here a comparison since 1999, which speaks of the same trend, i.e. the same trend, because today I will serve you with the information that in 1999 the average salary was 104.466 at the beginning of the period, which was 2.07 shares in net salary, and at the end of the period, before the increase, it was 1.93. And if we'd moved on for years now, we'd have come in 2004 with a value of 1.63, where you went on. So fall from 2.07 to 1.63. And I'm sure that information wasn't unknown to you. But you've only continued at a point where you're saying that the share has dropped from 1.63 in 1.44 this year and we expect to get to 1.4. Of course, I think that if we were to correctly present to people that this trend of lowering the contribution to the net salary is already in these years and that you will continue to do so, this is completely different from what you are saying to lower the RTV contribution. And of course people expect you to lower the RTV contribution, not as it has been since 1999, but otherwise, because you have offered this content in a different way. Of course, people expect this and do not resent that on their side these expectations are present and no different arguments, given what has happened before the adoption of the law are unacceptable to people. Today you have problems, and they also point out problems from the RTV management, which already points out that the contribution will have to be raised, otherwise the problems they already have will be even greater. And when we add analyses that talk about ratings, this is not just between 50 and more channels and programs in which you tried to confuse the story yesterday, compared with one commercial program in Slovenia, this is POP TV, where viewing on POP TV increased with factor 2 compared to RTV Slovenia. And if we add to this now, what will be the interest of the economy, that is, those who advertise, of course, it becomes very questionable that the share of the revenue from the advertising actions is declining. And experts' estimates are, that is, financial experts, that when this percentage falls below 30%, the self-action of this public institution is questioned and we are going to a critical phase. It is estimated that from almost 30% in 2006 the proportion will decrease to 25%. Of course, Minister, you can argue that the data we have is different. However, I would like to point out that, in public, it is possible to follow assessments and some opinions and suggestions that the loss of advertising revenues should be increased due to the fact that the transition to the euro could mean these ways to raise advertising prices. We know that at this very point we have also been very sensitive to the public in this House and have ensured that prices will not rise due to the transition to the euro. Here's what I'd like to say. The arguments about a better program fall when we evaluate ratings. The arguments that there will be a lower contribution fall because there is no contribution, and you come out of it with strange interpretations. Therefore, the only reason why a new law had to be adopted could be to ensure political influence. And only that the author of this law is completely clear from yesterday, one of the leading members of this ruling party, speaks of this, Mr. Minister, that you did not speak the truth, you did not speak only half-truth, but you have deceived the Slovenian public with promises that in fact were hiding what you wanted with a politically formed law to ensure political influence in the field of public TV. That this is already happening can only be supported by a few examples. I would like to support this only with a very well-known case of journalist Vide Petrovčič, whom also your client colleague, Mr Miro Petek, estimates that she is one of the most respected journalists. At the same time, when it comes to being critical of one of the government's Februarys, the beaches of bad work, poor judgment, suspensions, and so on begin to fall on it. For the conclusion of such a course. If you remember the criticisms of the sports programme, the elimination of the League of Champions from the programme, I could only say this: a very popular commentator from basketball was also excluded, this is Mr Wilfan, who, for example, commented very well and because at some point in time the bal was an expression of support for one candidate, of course at that time it was not possible for him to perform commenting on RTV, and, for example, the President of the Programme Council was able to express his support to one of Ljubljana's mayoral candidates, and that was no problem for you, Mr. Minister. For all of this, I think there are a lot of arguments from the interpretation that say that you are, of course, leading this cultural ministry beyond what you wrote and signed. So what you signed with a statement that you will respect the constitutional order and that you will work for the welfare of the Slovenes and the Slovenians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. I now understand interpellation as an act to prove to the Minister violations of the Constitution and laws. I do not understand interpellation as a collection of opinions, as a collection of various insinuations, but mainly as a material that clearly states what is the obvious, what is the breach, and then comes to a conclusion. Now, in this particular case, we can more than interpolation develop the thesis on that famous river, "Take the thief." The most obvious minister is the alleged violations by those who have already committed violations. I participated in one of the Tarč shows a long time ago, and it was clearly demonstrated there that she was first signed under interpolation to commit acts that were not in accordance with the law. And when she apologized for her actions, she said that more of her colleagues had just done so. And I'm just curious because it's obvious that it's officials, and her colleagues, how many of those who have identified shortcomings and violations of laws have been signed under this particular interpolation. In short, those who have also been proven in the media have shown on television that they have broken the laws, that they have been called to correction and so on, are now reading to someone else that they are supposed to do so. I don't think that's the point of doing it that way. In short, this action "receive the thief" in view of the reading of who is the most violator has been triggered by the most violators. And they're trying to get some kind of legitimacy for their actions so far. The fact that this interpretation is put on, say, the anniversary of the referendum date also means a symbolic act, this has already been mentioned, and in fact a controversy with the decision of the people. That is true, there are numerous comments in the media, especially here I would rely on the comment by Matta Roglič, on November 26th, which in the commentary entitled Political indiscretion has treated the point, point and purpose and also the content of this interpolation very qualitatively. And, above all, in its conclusion, when it states that the futility of the content itself will lose some of its meaning, it means that the debate here is essentially about salt; whether such interpretation as it is made, with such content and with such emphasis, is meaningful or not meaningful. And this is noted by journalists who have an extremely strong influence in some media. The next thing we can't ignore is that this interpretation was prepared by the so-called culturers of the Liberal Democracy, and it's precisely those who can't bear that this coalition changed their key acts, because they didn't produce results: not in your era and not in the mandate of this coalition. Interpellation is materially weak, is without evidence, based on negative internet records and clips; and interestingly, none of these attached clips are positive for the minister you are interpolating, but only very selectively designed and positive only for your execution. I have a feeling that the greatest effort, the greatest weight of this interpolation, has been put in the selection of clips, everything else is just an accompanying text. This also says a lot about the content of interpretation and also about why journalists wrote it. The Ministry, led by Mr Simonita, has been forced to propose a number of acts to eliminate the anomalies that he inherited, but most certainly for the Media Act, the safest thing for the Broadcasting Act, is this for the settlement of the situation in Lipica, the surest thing for the implementation of the Cultural Tolar Act. In short, he had to propose a series of acts by which he overturned these historical negatives. It is, however, the fact that culture and education are the two areas where you are most vulnerable, the most painful and the marketing of these areas, or the biggest problems in the current largest government party. And I'm not surprised that the reactions on your side in this particular case are so severe. As regards the Law on RTV and all these insinuations on various political personnel and changes, it is only necessary to distinguish between what is the law and what law imposes and allows the minister and what is the competence of other authorities in the institution, which are independent and act only after what they have written down and what the law has given them. Here, for any change, whether a journalist will lead or not to accuse the minister is unhygienic, it is not his job and it does not. The Minister's tasks in this area are quite different. The Orans in the institution, they have their tasks divided and they also carry out them. As far as the so-called media fund is concerned, the Media Pluralisation Fund. This fund existed and was already recorded in the previous law. Even so far it has been that, on the basis of the previous law, you have allocated funds on the basis of a call for proposals to certain media, the only problem was that these funds that you have granted have not been able to pay any of those special media that have been eligible within two years. Well, you failed because 3% of the RTV contribution was cancelled and other frameworks of the then coalition were unable to provide. This Minister is the first to be able to realize that he has decided to realize all that you have left in this area of pluralisation and special content. I think it's very inappropriate for such things to be revealed to the minister. Also with regard to direct transfers from the National Assembly. It is not a problem of the Minister, if these direct transfers are not yet implemented, the fact is that this particular business involves both the Public Office of Radiotelevision or exclusively the Institute and this House, the National Assembly. A national assembly which failed in one year to properly train the area for direct transfers. Well, that's right, the National Assembly budget is like that, and that's what's gonna happen next year. I hope that you will discuss these matters more carefully and also more diplomatically. Mr. Chairman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u7	Please. Although few English moments are harmful.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u8	Let's keep it the same. Even if it's an English moment, but for everyone who discusses the same. As far as Lipice is concerned. The fact is that the explanation shows that the number of visitors in Lipica has dropped significantly. Apparently, that's where only those who went to see Lipica's demise were coming. Those who went to watch what was happening there in Lipica new, what was an improved offer, etc., these guests were gone. The Lipica Act, which was adopted, was aimed at regulating the situation. All those important "lipicans" who thus speak for Lipica's interest have allowed that there was a largely wild landfill there, that there were unregulated agricultural areas, that it was growing, that the cultural landscape had collapsed and that cultural objects had collapsed in this cultural landscape. And after all, they also allowed themselves to be built, where it was not a city, also playing surfaces - say various tennis courts and so on. In short, the biggest criticisms of these changes that are to take place are those who have allowed such a situation. And I believe that it is not in all of this of great interest that things change, because it would actually show that they have done nothing in this area, and that more or less different professional and artistic directors have gone down only to pay, not to carry out other activities or those for which they have been paid. I also understand why there are so many aversions to regulation, such as additional sports areas. It is more than obvious that the playground, which was built 20 years ago in some other times, is a monotonous golf course, made only by half, only up to half and such projects in Lipica, made up to half, is quite something. The maintenance of the cultural landscape, including the neglect of the cultural landscape, has also been the result of such relations and the circumstances that have taken place here. The fact is, even in Ljubljana, we cannot if we want only half the stadium if we want to implement a specific programme. We need even a surface and that, I hope, we will get it once, but also Lipica needs the entire programme to implement a certain segment. And I don't think it's too bad that this government has passed the law and that the services responsible will also complete the offer to take the wild landfills out of Lipica. As far as RTV is concerned, I would like to go back to one more thing, which is mainly to the viewership of the programmes. The fact is that public television, which has other tasks such as commercial television, competes for the distribution of ratings and for other things, for watching with other commercial televisions. However, the task of public television is quite different. The purpose of public television is not to sell commercial programs. The purpose of public television is to offer programs that are not commercial and therefore also many broadcasts are also "prime-time" differently conceived, even though they have similar content as on commercial television. The journal is also designed differently than 24 hours, in a different way, with other emphasis and with other intentions, there is another approach. This is mainly because commercial television wants to market it, and public television offers some content, some information in some other way.And all these observations you're directing to the minister, who with the planned broadcasts and content, except that it's a marriage basis, are groundless. And there's one more thing I'd like to remember. The fact is that the Minister has provided significantly more resources for the implementation of cultural programmes than has been the case so far. Finally, Shirca's colleague stressed this at her press conference and with a very interesting emphasis: money is becoming more and more for culture, but also dissatisfaction. I hope that this point of your press conference will not change in contrast to finding satisfaction in culture by reducing funds. I hope this thing doesn't go back to the opposite of what we don't want and what you want to read. The fact is that there are more resources in culture, even expectations are higher, even than those that maintain and pay culture and are also interested in making these programmes better. That is why we want other things to be regulated in a similar way. Obviously, however, things were only about who would take more money, who was not given enough, which program could be even better, and obviously back there are not substantive interests, but personal interests, otherwise the larger meal could not be more satisfying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Just a brief comment on Mr. Tank's statement. I try to conduct the session fairly, consistently and also tolerantly, regardless of where the calls come from, or the ringing of the phone, or other disturbing sounds: from the right, middle or left. However, all the Presidents would be most happy if Members and Members quietly followed the implementation of the individual colleague or minister quietly. Thank you so much for understanding. Now I see two raised deadlines, probably on behalf of the applicants. First Mrs. Shirca, then Mr. Gulic. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u10	Thank you very much. It is true that culture has not been reduced in resources, but the additional discontents you have acquired, Mr Minister, are targeted, are raised in favour of billions for the media, are increased in fictional or unconfirmed projects covered by European funds, and are increased in favour of those projects aimed at accurately controlled projects advocated by the Minister's office in the film field.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u12	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, the president! I am speaking in particular about what Mr Tanko said, a clear argument on video clips, that we have chosen only those who have been negative and, of course, positive. We are interpelling the minister, Mr Vask Simoniti, and therefore we have chosen such clips to confirm everything we read to him. We left you the positives, but you didn't tell anyone. As far as breaking your argument is concerned, we have chronic evidence again, and when you can't do anything, you're spitting on Maja Shirca. I don't know what's appropriate in your customs, or if that's normal, but at least among people, it's a habit that when some things are already proven not to be true, that those accusations weren't true, it helped - and every honor to him - the ministry that gave him the information that there was no conflict of interest and that matters were not as true as the charges were made should be sufficient. The ministry has only said, although in these two days it has been heard at least twice as it is necessary to revive this story. Even on that show mentioned by Mr Tanko, that was the case. The case was mentioned, but again, the president of the anti-corruption commission said that the cases were already resolved and that there were no signs of corruption. That's enough for a normal person. It's said three times in the mill, in Parliament, and it's obviously necessary 300 times or more. That's why I called back. Mr President, thank you very much. I will now leave you to your peace and remain silent.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I agree with what colleague Tanko says - we are talking about national television and the national TV house must be different from commercial. The responsibility for what it is has been taken over by the ruling coalition with the law it has passed, and it's purely sedition if you take political power to set up the director who sets the editors, and then suddenly you're not responsible for anything. The truth of your story is the Pyramid, broadcast from two days ago. Your CEO runs the house, put him in the editor's seat. I would like to know whether Mr Možina will resign because of what happened there. You've established this system. You've talked a lot about how you do it because you as a coalition take responsibility. We have previously avoided this responsibility, and you are taking all the levers of power into your hands because now it will be order because public television will truly be public television. Look at the Pyramid show for at least ten minutes, come back and tell me if that's what you wanted to do. This is the result of your work, Mr. Minister, as a result of what you and your marriage have brought. Mr Petan has a problem with his words leaking when he is not speaking, and he keeps telling me that this is the most viewed broadcast. If this is really the most watched television show and if this is what you wanted to achieve, then I think it's embarrassing that this is the most viewed show. Maybe if you stage more manhunts, and you put it through public television to circulation, it'll be even more relevant. I hope you're not giving me what we saw two days ago as an argument for ratings and national television.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u15	Thank you. We continue with the applications and Dr. Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. You don't have to be a top cultural worker, an artist, to figure out how Slovenian culture is colored. Slovenian culture is politically coloured, both at national and regional level. Why am I being so judgmental? Because the most important things, these are financials, they certainly share on the basis of political discoloration. We've heard a lot about promises yesterday and today. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Thanks for the peace, so I can go on. We have heard a lot about how television will be better, how the subscription will be cheaper. This, of course, is not true and no one believed it either, at least the law's proponents; the law was proposed for completely different reasons and objectives. Well, that's exactly why we're going back to the distribution of funds, which is what I originally predicted. Here we can see anomalies both in the media and in the field of culture. See, share fund [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u17	May I have your attention, please? Dr. Slavinac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u18	Thank you. So, the media pluralisation fund has recently been distributed. My colleague Juban said something yesterday. I might add here just to see how local televisions were in a significantly more privileged position than radios. Of course, not all televisions, especially those that are slightly more servile to power, and those that are in their programs are what those who decide on funds want. As an example, I can tell you how the funds were distributed in the pomur region. By the way, the regions received a good 80 million and one television received more than half of that money, and one local television received 46 million. Central pomor media, it's an information company, specifically the Murski wave, only 30. To make the matter even more in the sky a screeching, equivalent local television, two exist, two have also applied, and instead of 46 as the first to receive only 7 million. There's two more radios that got a good million. Of course, the arguments may be such or different, but this is not only my opinion, as I said earlier, that the division was certainly based not only on expertise but also on political foundations. The next thing I announced about culture in general, the Film Fund of the Republic of Slovenia has in mind, I will be very specific. The film Voda in the eyes won three awards at the Slovenian Film Festival, as it was the best and was produced in its own production. There is a permanent invitation to tender at the Ministry when something good happens, then, of course, the performers sign up for this permanent invitation to tender and so also the authors of this film - and again, I stress, the film was made in their own production, that is, the whole of the financiers - applied for this call. From the Fund they even received congratulations for the success of the film Water in the eyes at the last festival of Slovenian film and the call to deliver the increase and post-production budget as soon as possible, the future plan, etc., preferably this week, the matter was dated in December 2005 so that the funds could be received this year. The Commission of Experts, I stress, has assessed the film as very good, promising and has estimated it to be worth financing and also to enable further production. The situation then gets stuck when it comes to the Council, where, according to the evaluation of the expert programming commission and the available resources, they write that they cannot approve co-financing. See, on the professional side - excellent assessment, after the money has to really be given, and the authority in which it is delegated politically cancels the decision of the expert body. The exact same thing happened for another movie called Honey Moon - the honeymoon. I have previously pointed out that there is an inequality in the allocation of funds both at national and regional level. Of course, we can ask ourselves why a film that talks about Prekmurje, which was created in these environments, after a very good assessment by the expert commission, does not eventually receive funds. So we can ask ourselves whether there are political backgrounds, whether there are regional backgrounds, or whether there are any other backgrounds that we do not know about. Perhaps someone may have speculated that there was someone else who needed funds, and it was given to him. These speculations are possible, too. And I have another example, a film by the Central School, which was also rated with a very high score, over 75 points, the expert commission chose it again and then - why there is no funding; because it is not in line with the guidelines of the programme commission, it is with the programme. But to make the irony even more ironic, and before that, it was even asked to make a screenplay of this film, so the film was generally supported. And these are just a few examples where we see and suspect that decisions are not just professional and that we would then like to stress that the Minister should lead politics, cultural policy in Slovenia, in such a way that he swears to those for whom and to whom he swore, as we have already heard yesterday. And then you won't have to hear again that it's insulting to RTV, as we heard yesterday, if people don't watch TV. It is necessary to promote such a culture, such an RTV programme, so that people will want to watch this and I stress in the end that it will also be scattered throughout Slovenia. Culture is not only taking place in Ljubljana, culture and culture must be obtained throughout the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko has applied to the replica before. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I think it's right that I also respond to certain references. If we want to make comparisons of the shares that RTV has in "prime-time" or at all times, then it would make sense to compare with other public televisions in Europe how much they achieve in the competitions with commercial televisions. That would be a real comparison. It should be borne in mind that the share of televisions, the number of televisions and commercials, locals and others is increasing, and all of this has a direct impact on the ratings of public broadcasts. Therefore, the only meaningful comparison is, if you insist on it, a comparison with the international environment, where they also have public television and even a bunch of local, regional and commercial televisions, and that would be credible data. The second thing that is now about to be triggered is the action of the Minister of Action at the Institute. The Minister for Action in the RTV Office is not competent. What is happening, for what is happening in the RTV office, are the competent authorities of the Institute, the Programme Board, the Supervisory Board, the Director and others. And in these actions they are completely independent bodies, they have nothing to do with the minister. The time has passed when Mr Borut Pahor or Mr Anton Rop could intervene. Those times are gone. After this marriage, these times are gone. Until then, that was it. And we cannot take this story, this illegal operation of these political Februarys in the RTV office as criteria for acting and accusing the minister of what he will do. That was it. And this was a violation of all normal democratic norms and media independence. I hope these times never happen again. And I also expect everyone who criticizes this to at least know how powers and tasks are located. And once again, because you've broken the law on your own and in some other area, then you can't accuse someone who has nothing to do with it, even if he's breaking the law or breaking the law. In this way, we cannot hold discussions on serious issues in this National Assembly. Either it's a violation and it's proven or there's no violation. And we need to discuss this today, not on the basis of some of the historical violations that you have committed, but now to accuse the Minister of doing something similar. It's not like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate is the debate on the first interpolation in this mandate, and I must say that I am disappointed over the opposition that it did not use this institution of parliamentary democracy and could not use it. Of course, I am even more disappointed because she wrote such an interpretation, which is "not standing", which is "solata", according to her own words, in which there is no argument and no documentary evidence of any misfunction, conduct or illegal operation of Minister for Culture, Vasko Simoniti. Of course, there are some logical reasons why the subject of interpretation was exactly the Minister of Culture. One of the logical reasons is that he is a writer of interpretation or are writers, our fellow Member Majda Shirca, a former official of the same ministry, and Mr Simon Kardum, as the culinary language goes everywhere, is probably true. See, in this interpolation there is really no other way than cynicism, accusation, sarcasm, arrogance, preservation, spitting, insinuation and all this wrapped up in some language of a writer who has some technical knowledge of writing. I don't blame my colleague Majda for the interpellation. And I resent that this is from some kind of emotional ascension, from one of the things I know, almost limits those abnormal feelings against someone. Look, I would say that the colleague is in some way a modern Mahnič in Slovenian culture, but in my opinion, with a significantly narrower spiritual field and a smaller knowledge of the identity of Slovenians and Slovenian cultures, as Mahnič managed in his time. Because it bothers me that a man who knows that he is not perfect to compare such a lack of identity with that of Karl Grossman at the official opening of the exhibition here in Parliament, repeats five times that he is a Prekmurc and that he is a Ljutomer in Prekmurje. This is a bad knowledge of Slovenian culture, identity - from Prlekia are from Miklosic and I don't know who everyone is. Because of this comparison between Mahnik and our colleague, today the poet Simon Gregorčič, if he were, would again write the Song of Storm of Crassus. By the way, they're both coming from Crassus. That's what he wrote about Mahnič about the storm from Crassus. Unfortunately, the poet Gregorčič is gone today. It was the 100th anniversary of his death here at Cankar's home. And I agree with my colleague, Shirca, that today he is in the cultural space, that he is increasingly locked up and dark in the sense that it is darkness in the cultural field to prevent participation in such a celebration of Gregorčič. In fact, Simon Gregorčič was the prophet of Slovenia, Tod sekreh bridka will be steel - announced the Soviet front, fighting for the Slovenian territory. What Cvikl and you, from Liberal Democracy, did to prevent participation in celebrations, cultural affairs, the institution of Slovenia - one on which Slovenia is founded. In fact, we often guarantee here and we all say that Slovenian culture is a constitutional part of the Slovenian state and Simon Gregorčič is a constitutional part of the Slovenian state and you have deliberately prevented it. And that's darkness. As I move forward, the main indications that something serious has been done with the RTV Act for freedom of expression of journalists, freedom of the media, public opinion in Slovenia, I must tell you to offer evidence. Please compare newspapers from the time of your government and the current newspapers, the media. Your accusations just don't hold up. I'm not saying that things don't happen in the editorial boards of the wrong thing, that they're not political pressures today, but they're significantly smaller and much more plural are newspapers. I am comparing the situation of the interpretation against Mr Gabra, which was the work on 11 December 1998 and today's works. Although we offered a lot of documentary evidence against Minister Gabra on the corruption of his associates, not him, but the Minister is objectively responsible, there was no opposition member in the window at that time, as in today's Work. This I think is the contribution of plurality, but Mr Gulič came in a box with an eccentric lack of reality, that before the elections before 70% of the media space was intended for the current opposition and only 30% of the current position. Look at the newspapers at the same event. Today, Majda Shirca is also in the foreground as the carrier of the interpretation, and that was not the case at the time. A study was made on the three-month interval between the current opposition and the then government position, and this relationship is quite the opposite, as Mr Gulič points out. In a political speech when interpreting, it is allowed to speak false, ecclatic, untruths to speak. Mr. Gulic, I'm sorry he did this. One of the indications in this interpretation is that the Minister is recruiting politically or making exchanges that he should not have, and one of the cases is the replacement of the Director of the Archives of Slovenia. I'm so glad you wrote that down, because I know this part. The former director, Mr. Žumer, said in an interview shortly before his liquidation, that the archives are cleaned at the SOW before they arrive at the SOVO and that access to archives in Belgrade is prevented systematically. This was the reason that the former LDS authorities had killed him at the moment. We took this out on the Commission for Intelligence and it was practically the answer that this was the reason for its replacement. A director was appointed, who was a political commissioner, to prevent another scandal from taking place, that there was something out of those archives, something out of Colonel Udba, which then had trouble with the judiciary to stop the investigations and everything. I have to say, if you are advocating that this gentleman, who was just a member there with a special task, that nothing could be seen from the archives, that they were wiped out, that they were covered, closed, then defend the bloody hands, then that's it. And this is a strong project from liberal-communist circles and power centres that represent such views and which is the primary priority project. [[...]] [[It's a food ad.]] And when we move on to After you are unconscious, I believe, but because he did something that is consistent with the archival profession, honesty in this place, he was politically liquidated. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u23	Please, we have no dialogue, but we have a monologue right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u24	These are facts that cannot be denied and rejected. Because, of course, Mr Simonita, who comes from the Partisan family, the composer of the Partisan family, and who was also his father killed, is the prime sin of the minister. Then I'd like to say something about what was going on in this pyramid. We did not look at it because we had to sit here on the proposal of the Liberal Democracy, so I cannot judge the intolerance and hate speech on this show on a scale. Nevertheless, it seems irrational for me to say that a Member of the National Assembly, legitimately elected, should not be invited to national television. This is a reality in Slovenia. I believe it went over the edge, but if it went over the edge, it gave support to 73%, I'm told, the callers of the Slovenians, mostly in the past shows, this should be the concern of the sociologists who have been raising the Slovenian people for 30 years, the school, Gaber, Gantar, the sociologists themselves. Where have you brought the Slovenian Society? We didn't have leverage. A systematic hate speech was allowed from the position of left anarchism. That was all allowed, those were democratic procedures. Now maybe it's coming back from some other position. But this is the problem of the FDV and the sociologists and those at the liberal academy who have deliberately indoctrinated the Slovenian people. I'm glad that you're opening up these themes, that this is also a little bit of political, sociologically opening up where they are to instigate this kind of thinking, what's going on today. It never happens in the people, in the nations overnight, ever. It might still be possible to talk about it, but once again. There wasn't such a bad interpolation. In fact, it is a shame for Parliament to put together a notebook on the basis of some articles of the newspapers and send it into the official procedure. I appeal ahead. Prepare the interpolation, just come with the documents. In our authorities, anomalies happen and happen in every policy, but your job is to prove them, not to accuse and spit without evidence. That's even possible. I, too, greatly appreciate Vida Petrovčič, and I am sorry if any of this is true, but I think there are a lot of prestigious leaders within journalism because they always exist. There are always and, sooner or later, I think that its extraordinary knowledge in the financial field and in other education will prove to be that it will once again raise it to the surface and that these absurd matters will, I don't know, be over, overturned. Well, one more time. Such interpretation is not an honor to the Slovenian Parliament. We would deserve a better document, of course, in this case it would by no means come to the attention of Minister Vasko Simoniti, but because of some ideological patterns and causes you chose this target and in the meantime there were feelings, unmade dreams. On unmade dreams, don't build interpellations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Dr. Gaber entered the floor on behalf of the motioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Comrade Jerovšek was here to judge the quality of the interpretation. I understand that he has decided on this approach, how accurate he is, and he has already said everything about his qualifications for another interpretation. He literally said, and I quote, "We have submitted a number of documentary evidence in the previous interpolation." Now he's showing this documentary evidence, it's a newspaper article.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u27	Please, Mr Jerovšek, allow Mr Gaber to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u28	If you'll excuse me, my dear fellow, I've somehow managed to listen to your allegations, perhaps if you can take the answer as well. The documentary evidence shall be transmitted in that country to the relevant authorities. This is what parliamentarians and parliamentarians need to know. The only thing I know from that interpolation that really happened is that someone who accused people who weren't in the hall then had a lot of excruciating procedures when he had to provide documentary evidence that he couldn't provide. So much for the substantiation of your claims, colleague Jerovšek. You're talking about certain people defending bloody hands, please, this expression "blooded hands" has meaning. The semantics count. Bloody hands and Archives of Slovenia. Let's try to be more realistic. I would have believed that someone had been mistakenly suspended or something if I could have believed that he was holding your first claim to countless documents. All these concepts have meaning, and so when I listen to you, I can't believe it. Not for a very simple reason, because we sociologists have been boycotting for the last 30 years I am quite old, but 30 years ago I was somewhere at the end of high school, and then I was raising the Slovenian generation wrongly and that's why all the mistakes are happening in this country. Let us be more serious in all these discussions. Sociology is science, quite old already of course, colleague Ziherl, I believe that no other science can be science for you unless it's natural, but here I'll probably even be attracted to my colleague Simonita. He will probably believe that social sciences and humanities are also sciences, no matter what. But for their subject they have a study of society, not raising society. When they report what they find out, it's us who accept it or not. How far it doesn't show to go with this, it seems to be aware that when you say we started, we've established anarcholiberalism. I haven't talked about it yet, but this time I will, because you've gone very far in your personal qualifications. I got a police record in the previous regime, the one before 1990, when I was a student on the charge of anarcholiberalism at the time. Think about it. That's when they called me. It's strange that my colleague in Parliament is now telling me the same thing. That's when they had us in college among the students who reported us. I have another experience. I have experience of being tapped, and that's why there's a list, so fat, of the whole wiretap at the time I was secretary. I don't really need to take qualifications like yours, Comrade Jerovšek. And I'm very sorry that we have to talk about this here.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has a replica, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u30	Thank you very much. It is very interesting that respected colleague Gaber felt that it was personal qualifications, despite the fact that I said that political responsibility was discussed in the interpretation. I specifically said that his associates were also presented through documentary evidence. And I must say that I am sorry that in the case Human Rights is later - and now I must say - the Court of Auditors has absolutely confirmed everything that we have represented in this interpretation. The Court of Auditors has absolutely confirmed this and this can also be withdrawn from the Court of Auditors’ report. That's why I have to say it wasn't about any personal qualifications. And also about what I said about socioscience, that the FDV should actually do more for tolerance in the Slovenian space. I'm afraid it went the other way. And in doing so, colleague gaber, if you went away, there was no personal qualifications. Of course, on the system of values and everything that has been systematically raised and defined in the Slovenian nation, it is necessary to say; why did this happen, I wonder. If it was an impatient speech, a hateful speech on this show that I couldn't watch, then let the chief concern be sociologists, political scientists, psychologists, why it happened. And you're not going to say that we from our political field dictated the pace, the pattern and the teaching system in these colleges, which have such a strong influence, and that we hold cathedrals there. There's nothing left to do. At least you can't report to any minister that he's replaced someone at some department in this system. And I ask you, colleague gaber, to listen well for the second time, and when there is no personal qualifications, don't talk about personal qualifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We continue with the reported, and I invite mags to the word. Squeezing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u32	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Minister! We also interpel the Minister of Culture because, as Minister of Culture, he was a non-cultural, contrary to financial culture, implementing the 2005 budget. He is the first among ministers to receive a negative opinion from the Court of Auditors. The Minister of Defence states that it is no harm if he has contributed to payment non-discipline if he has failed to provide payments by the deadline, because he states, "it is true to say that the suspension of payments is a perfectly normal matter in December". I must tell you that the Minister of Finance has reported for 2005 that there have been no delays in payments. Who's moving around here? Mr. Secretary, contrary to the rules, executes small orders.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u33	Can I have some more peace back there?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u34	Mr Minister, without a pre-confirmed financial plan to give one public institution 30 million more and another 245 million more than his personal budget. It is therefore justified that the Court of Auditors gave a negative opinion to the Minister for Culture. I regret that, after a number of Ministers of Culture have received three positive opinions in past mandates, we have a Minister of Culture who is misexecuting the budget. Another time. The Minister of Culture, as part of the Government, has failed to convince his colleagues to maintain some important tax reliefs. Here he boasts that, in principle, half a percent of the income base will be available for culture, but forgets that the act which he contributed to him has eliminated four times the possibility of tax relief. And what's more, these 4 times more tax breaks could be used by people to buy books, etc. Now he says that four times less is intended for various so-called non-profit activities, something equivalent to 2% relief for all Slovenes. As Minister of Culture, he has contributed to other shortcomings in ancient legislation, but it is surprising that, in his explanation, he actually states that it is no big deal if we have done so. It's his usual practice. And at the end of all this time Simon Gregorčič and his celebration. Gentlemen, you have been prevented from attending the celebration by the leaders of the parliamentary groups. If we respected Mr Gregorčič's rebellion, we would, of course, confirm the veto of the State Council, which wants nothing but to ensure that the other directors are upright, that they have up-to-date teachers. And if you look at Mr Gregorčič's CV, the poet, the chaplain, the vicar, you will see that he has always fought for the independence of the job he carries out. And at least what those who so respect his spirit would do would be to respect the will of the State Council and ensure the integrity of Slovenian teachers. Mr Simonita will continue to say a number of things about what is written in the Court of Auditors' report. The fact is, the Court of Auditors’ opinion as the supreme audit institution is final. And Mr. Minister, that's why he got a negative opinion. And Mr. Minister, I suggest you leave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! I, too, when I received the text of this so-called interpretation, the more I read it, the more I wondered why a minister of culture. The last one is on the list of ministers who should have been caught if they were already interpolated. And I came to one conclusion and I think it's even more real that the interpolators simply found out before the local elections that something had to be done, and started appearing in the media, they threw the balls into one basket and pulled out first, it had the name Dr. Vasko Simoniti written on it, and so this story is now kind of going on in this order. The next Minister of Health and so on. Yesterday, some of you were surprised at the Minister's response to what was written in this so-called interpretation. If the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are not enough for a different approach, then, in my opinion, the political culture of those who are signatories, some of you have a very long kilometer in the National Assembly, should say that such a document should be submitted in a manner that is appropriate in one serious Parliament, it is by asking questions that require answers to them, and not by making a preliminary accusation, as you did. The Rules of Procedure say that when answers are received, a decision shall be taken as to whether or not the charge is necessary. But you're right on the start, you don't care, you write: Minister, you have to leave because we think it's the right thing to do. That's not right. I think this phase could only come after we have answered to assess whether your interpolation is reasonable and justified or not. I personally expected you to keep something in your sleeve for this National Assembly, for this omise; and interestingly, to date there is none of it, now I don't know if you're saving it for the last few minutes that will finally be available. The colleague who spoke before me also disappointed me a little, although he pulled one of the "kobayagi" aduts out of his hand; the Court's negative opinion on the 2005 final accounts, and that is not a single asset, which I will explain later. Nothing, nothing and nothing else, except a few clips, newspaper articles, some frustrated statements, which, I don't know, come from, dissecting a minister's personality, which is arrogant, unreachable and so forth and similar. Interpellation, however, is a serious matter for all of us, both for the position and for the opposition. It is a matter of reminding those who do not act in accordance with the Constitution, with the laws and expectations of this National Assembly, that it must work better, or that it is better to leave. But it is therefore necessary to have some arguments, which unfortunately in this particular case, however we turn this text and the indications we heard yesterday and today are not to be found. Most of the discussions revolved around the RTV subscription, a bad program. I don't think the minister has anything to do with it. He was obliged to ensure the adoption of an appropriate law, which should have been adopted by a poorly run public institution, which has not yet been regulated, because they cannot be settled quickly, which will take some time to settle in this substantive and financial sense, in terms of management, and here his jurisdiction ceases. We have adopted this law, the bodies of this institution have been appointed and their task is to demand responsibility from management, unless it achieves the programme objectives set. These human rights tsunamis and these fairy tales that the Minister is supposed to be doing, I think these are unserious matters and they are not worth serious discussion. Bad program. I agree that this may be true, but it is not a matter of the Minister again, I ask you kindly not to discuss in this National Assembly when we are talking about the work and responsibility of the Minister in the areas for which he is in charge. That's another thing. Eternal "shagger," miserable Lipica. If only a tenth of what has predebated about it has been done in the last eleven years, it is probably not necessary to discuss it today. But too much talk, too little action, every good measure that's been set up, blocked, I think it leads to this, for a while then things won't be arranged as they should be. I ask you kindly why, after you accepted it, you were in power, 11 years ago, the Law on Kobilana Lipica, to the same public office in the budget, diverted the funds to operate from modest 50 million to 30 in the first year when he entered into business. If this matter is so important to you and you are now opposed to any smart decision, any smart action that is intended to bring European funds to this public institution on the one hand, on the other hand, has allowed the development of activities that are complementary in this area, which is indisputable only, and has slowly led to the relocation of those who are disturbing and who are not even mentioned in the words. This is a casino in the core of Lipice itself and what will certainly happen within 20 years, but not tomorrow. At that time, 20 years ago, when the playground was built, there was no one to warn or interpell because of the change in destination without being paid a toll of compensation because it was done without a building permit despite the fact that such acts were to be carried out at that time. No one. Today, when things are supposed to be saved in such a way that this product will normally come to life, because, as it is now designed, it is limited in its development; by the way, this is the only playground operating throughout the year in the territory of Slovenia, the only playground, and this has also sometimes been advertised with the slogan "January to January" and nothing interferes with the basic product, which is a horseman and everything else that is connected to it. Nothing at all. It complements it. And now because of these decisions that are blocked, this development is limited and difficult. No one mentioned that this year, after many years, it was possible to clean the areas that had been infested for many years, that funds had also been obtained for this purpose outside the Republic of Slovenia, and that this product had finally begun to unfold in a normal way. Even after a different design of this playground, it will not be significantly expanded, but it does not already cover 5% of the entire Lipi estate, covering more than 300 hectares. And that's not a problem for you. For you, you state that Minister Simoniti is responsible for mediating an illegal programme of protection and development. How could a program like this, please, illegal? On what grounds? Because it provides for the regulation of one area. Is that illegal? Is it illegal to provide for arrangements for abandoned degraded areas? Yeah, if that's illegal, please, and I'm the first one to sign off on such illegality three times. It's not illegal for me, but it's unacceptable for him to be politicized at this point. This is not a matter of this Parliament, it is a matter of those who are entrusted with the management and management of this area. And all we have to do is make it possible for them to work normally, but not in any way prevent them from doing so, and also from interpreting the Minister from these quasi-illegal items. And then it blooms in this interpolation on page 32, when you're paralyzing, among other things, by the statement of the President of the Council of the Institute of Dr. Miha Brejc, who said it would be good to start doing a little more public service in this country if I made it easier. It is not Parliament's decision whether what was concluded at some level is good or bad. And you write in the sense of the yellow press: "In other words, Mr. Brejc's threatening statements as an active golfer and President of the Lipica Golf Club are also understandable in the light of the fact that he bought a holiday house in the nearby village and he only had a shot at the Lipica playground, and according to some indications, he has been seen since before. [[Free of charge from the last election]] Visitor of the Lipi playground." Please! I'm really disappointed in you, deep down. From the same mouths that speak of how each person has the right to choose where he will live, words of opposition come from the same mouth if he decides to set up a secondary home somewhere or whatever it is. What's the problem? Some submersibles, which do not even appear in the yellow press, in the text of the interpretation against the Minister of Culture, Dr. Vask Simoniti! The only thing that has weight is a statement concerning the negative opinion of the Court of Auditors issued by the Ministry of Culture for 2005. Nor is it properly stated here, as was said at the public meeting of the Commission on Budgetary Control and other public finances, that the irregularities identified had already been resolved in the course of the audit, as the Court of Auditors concluded, and that there was therefore no need for a response report - they were eliminated and no response report was needed. Nevertheless, the main problem, the negative opinion, is being met vehemently. And why did it come to him to the greatest extent? Why? Because the Minister, as a good host, allowed institutions of national importance - the Slovenian Philharmonic, the Film Fund, the Institute for the Protection of Natural and Cultural Heritage - to receive funds for their activities, even though they did not have, according to the Court of Auditors, the work programmes and financial plans adopted at the right time. That was the main observation. And since this is a large amount of funds, a large amount of this budget money, it seemed appropriate for the Court of Auditors to point out that this should not be the case in the future. But let's ask ourselves again where the minister's responsibility lies. I'd be personally responsible for the minister if he didn't direct these funds. The Slovenian Philharmonic would not have been paid, they would not have received operating costs. I am firmly convinced that only after that would there be one huge rhompom and dissatisfaction. Nor does he have direct authority to command the worlds of institutions to do what and how they should do. It's not the Ministry's problem here either, it's someone else. And in my opinion, in this case, he was doing the only right thing and the way it was most opportunistic at the moment. I personally assess that there is no argument in this text that the Minister does not perform his duties as he did in the National Assembly. I estimate that it would be good for the proponents to think about it and to get through at least so many political cultures in the future and to reach a conclusion on what should be done when they hear the answers to what is evident and, as we say in the final phase, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Of course, I cannot support any proposal for a solution or anything else on the basis of what has been said here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Still, I'm asking for a little more peace in the hall so we can continue the meeting. I give my word to the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. There are some questions and arguments that I will try to answer briefly. Mr Juri spoke about the reduction of funds to be allocated to TV Koper-Capodistria. So I must say that this thing is, of course, an RTV house and its programming institutes, which, of course, must be coordinated and coordinated among themselves. With regard to watching television programmes, in particular TV Diary and Commercial, I think that Mr Tanko has already said that these are different concepts and, at least to a certain extent, also on public television, such a diary must be created completely differently and has commitments and obligations throughout the country of Slovenia, it is completely different from any commercial television. As for what Mr Germič said, perhaps Mr Juri, that I have disappointed him in certain things, that I have been the first to sign an attack, and Mr Germić says that I am undervalued and that my tone is inappropriate. I want to know how he evaluates yesterday's words when they fell with no arguments, but harshly, that the government and those who set up the government are executioners, cleaners and, of course, servants. These are very offensive and bombastic markings, in particular those by the Member of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, about the very important and famous Slovenian person that he is a servant. I hope that he will sue her for these offensive words and that the Member will not speak on immunity. For in the case of what they read to me about my underestimated and arrogant relationship and about these stickers, the characteristics that appeared in some of the writings 20 and 30 years ago, I have already spoken. I think that some famous person in the Slovenian space who is known for his work, both in different fields, is marked as a servant, what I have not heard in Parliament in a long time. With regard to the fact that I have marked Ambassador Shirco in relation to her, in my view, unethical activity, I have named and stressed this, I have linked myself to saying that I find it rather improbable to me to be mere interpretation, which my client colleagues have already justified. And that this matter is unbelievably credible, of course, stems from the unbelievable act of the Member itself, because they advocate an avant-garde manifesto of the Liberal Democracy "Man Before Profit", whereas it is obvious, as the anti-corruption commission has also found, that this action results in profit. I'd expect you to give up those funds for the good of some charity. With regard to the contribution that Mr Germič has been talking about, and much has been said about it, I do not think it would be particularly worth repeating. I would say what I have said many times, Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and also Mrs Shirca, who, as a long-standing political activist and worker with many functions, additions and high wages, are also committed to freezing their salaries according to their avant-garde manifesto "Man Before Profit" and I believe that after two years they will be able to determine what these differences are and if this is true, that freezing some things means a real reduction despite the fact that something is not nominally reduced. Then it was, I think, similar to Mr Gulič, and I have already answered more or less. Well, because of the TV, I'd still say, despite the fact that we've heard and that I'm also saying that it's not in my jurisdiction. But like I said, I've acquired data that explains some things at least a little bit. It's about a better or worse program, about repetitions. These repetitions were particularly during the summer months, and this was not the planning and work of the new suit, which took place only on May 1st, but the previous sets, which could have done so, were not obvious, only as a fact. This year, however, there is one billion more for the programme within the RTV house, and I think it will be on programme workers if they know how to make use of it and propose such programmes to make it happen. The will of the new leadership has certainly been demonstrated by the fact that it has devoted more than 1 billion to programming content. As far as I know, it's about commenting on our famous Wilfán basketball player. I have to say, I'm talking now, but I've seen him comment three weeks ago or recently that there have been some changes in the past, so I'm not aware of it. Now, all the time during the referendum, you've pointed out that RTV won't be independent anymore, and on the other hand, with everything I hear here, you want to broadcast directly on every possible thing on TV. This seems strange to me, or perhaps you have a reflex from earlier times when you publicly admitted that you controlled Radiotelevision, of course. About the Pyramid show. I have to say that I didn't see her myself because I was, I think, at the celebration, at the 100th anniversary of Gregorčič, but I have here a long statement from Radiotelevision. Now, if you talk to me, I will read it, but it is a long one, in which the Television of Slovenia identifies itself to this, probably a very inappropriate performance by the Member, at least so assessed, by Mr Jelinčič. It's not my opinion if it was inappropriate, because I haven't seen it, but obviously there's so much talk about it. Mr Slavinec spoke about how local televisions were financed, whether they were privileged, etc. It is clear that local television is the media that receive more resources from radio stations, as they apply for much more expensive projects, but it is not to be forgotten that the media that receives these funds must provide the same amount of funds themselves. This is a condition for the allocation of these funds by the Ministry of Culture. Otherwise, Mr Slavinec also said about the film Water in the Eyes. The Film Fund, as I received the information, was sent only a letter, which was pointed out to those who sent this letter that they had to apply for the invitation to tender, which they did not do. With regard to the evidence of some actions related to films that have, as far as I'm concerned, inappropriate pornographic content, we have also announced in public that the supervisory board has stopped the film "Fucker", the Slovenian "Fucker", and the Central School, where pornographic content is very clearly and eloquently displayed in high school between minors and teachers. This is also reflected in the record book provided by all members of the Governing Council. If you want, ask them to pass them on to you. Although I believe that it is not necessary to make a plebiscite decision on every matter, I think that some bodies are within the film world, which also have the right to express their opinion and to turn away from it. Even if I allow myself, even though I haven't seen it, I will gain it, and I will see if it is in my power, if not in my own power, I will make public my opinion whether I am in favour of such content or not. As far as I know the film funds abroad - and with some state institutions - I have been able to speak at least indirectly over the last two months through contact persons who co-finance such films - in all liberality, Western, and otherwise, the rules on this are very clear. I think the Film Fund has done quite well in this regard. What has been said is that I will not go into this, how some today are publicly boasting in Parliament, if someone in the previous regime has shown them a finger, if perhaps half an hour have been listening to it and so on. You know, don't let people talk about these things in person. We know that 30,000 people have been sentenced to terrible punishments, terrible torture. At least five times, six times as many people have suffered indirectly, been sentenced from one to fifteen years or to death. And now, if someone showed someone a finger, a little bit inside some social-political organizations, they thought that, I don't know, I don't know what's going on, please! People who sat in females for ten, fifteen years did not usually boast about these things, but they were extremely dignified and upright. One of them, that I should be forgiven for not using great names frequently, was Jože Pučnik, who never boasted of such things. Mr Squeakl says it would be good if I left because I treated the budget in an uncultured manner. It is true that the Court of Auditors submitted a negative report on the work of the Ministry of Culture, but it was found that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which amounted to around 1,800 billion, was damaged for a total of 1,443 tolars of money, which was also reimbursed immediately. All the other findings were detected and removed in time, and this has already been said very well by my colleague. It was all done. This is what Mr Cvikl heard on the Commission on Budgetary Control, where the leader of the one where Mr George Petrovič, a member of the Court of Auditors, said that the irregularities that could have been resolved during the audit had already been resolved and even so far had come that they did not even require the Ministry of Culture to respond despite the fact that the negative report had been received, which logically follows. At the Ministry of Culture, we did all the same. That is what Mr Jorge Petrovič said, which belongs to the top of this Court of Auditors. Similarly, the President of the Court of Auditors, Mr Soltes, said at a meeting of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances that the Court of Auditors had requested a response report from only six ministries, which was 8.11.2006, and did not include the Ministry of Culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mag. Squeakle, do you have a replica? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u40	Very briefly. Mr. Secretary, you obviously don't know the facts. You got a negative opinion, not a negative report. First of all, negative opinion. Secondly, you received a negative opinion because you implemented more than 5% of your budget in violation of the rules. 5% of your budget is a billion and a half. And, of course, Minister, if you think you can just give someone 30 million, another 240 million, or that you are in breach of the obligation to pay deadlines, then you are acting contrary to the financial culture defined in Slovenian legislation. That is why you have received a negative opinion from the Supreme Audit Institute. These are the facts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u42	Yes, because I do not deny that these are not facts, but then things have settled down, and it has been quite clear that this 30 million does not mean the large amount that would mean within the design of the programme the urgent thing that is required otherwise. For with two billion funds, the large funds received by the Slovenian Philharmonic, 30 million does not mean the amount for which the annual plan should be corrected.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u43	Mr. Squeakle, you know there's no replica to the replica. We continue with the declarations and invite Mrs Shirco to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr Jerovšek, Vrsno nad Sočo is not in Crassus. Simon Gregorčič was born there, and this is not Crassus. Mr. Minister, it's hard to hear from your words on ethics, you're talking about ethics when you threatened me in the past that you wouldn't stop dealing with me, even though my family would suffer. You said it rudely, and we know your hand was not at rest. However, I did not define in the entire discussion some very important arguments that you have not noticed by those who are charged with interpolation, because you clearly define it as irrelevant, before you read it, like the Minister, it is a very difficult and fateful fact concerning Slovenian film. What's going on in the Slovenian movie? Today we are 30.11., one month before the end of the year, and on 1 January 2007, no Slovenian producer knows what he will be able to do and what he will not do. Why? Because of the fact that your so-called censors, who were appointed to the Supervisory Board, decided that they would design a film program so that after they removed their hands quickly, literally overnight, without arguments, the director of the Film Fund, they would design the program themselves. This programme is designed by measuring it according to the vats of their own criteria and their own interests. Their own criteria are the assessment of the scenes and appropriateness of the players who are designated for them. The director fought for the transparency, purity and well-being of Slovenian film, but she knew too much. She also knew where they were going and where the money was supposed to go, which you got nicely, otherwise very nicely for a few tolars, but directed to clientelistic projects of those people who now want to rehabilitate failed projects from 15 years ago or a little less. And they were with them. And this money isn't small, it's big, it's conditional. The director who supervised this had to go home, not just because of this knowledge, but because of someone else. You have an area of film run by a centralised team, a team that connects the Film Fund, Cinematec, Television Slovenia and manages key levers of Slovenian visual culture and politics. You set up such people, there is not one today and also yesterday, which is headed by the Media Directorate, which literally destroyed Slovenian film in the early 1990s, together with a minister who did not give sufficient emphasis to Slovenian film production, which is why we still have to fix the financial situation in the field of film art 15 years later. This gentleman, who has probably helped you to slow down the introduction of this interpretation, is helping to write laws that leave no one who knows anything or knows about the film, even the director of the Film Fund, because it has had and has been banned from participating in thought, in a discussion that they themselves co-organised instead of the Ministry of Culture, about what the fate of the film culture will be in the future, including with the new law and such a law, because your adjutant suggested that he centralize Slovenian film art, combine it into something that was put to good luck for 15 years because it did not work and had to withdraw into history. Mr Minister, even in Cinematec, you have been putting up your likes and choosing them according to non-professional criteria, so today we can say that the Slovenian Cinematheque has really won, but the hall no longer has a film. There is no good program in Slovenian Cinematec, there is no good visit, and there is no confidence in it anymore, and that is what everyone, not only in Slovenia, has told you before you set up your people, but also from international associations with their signatures. You today call them all people who speak from Europe to be so called. Minister, I don't know how you're going to be able to have conversations with your colleagues from Europe in 2008, but today those who told you yesterday that you're writing laws that lead to disaster are determining how, for low, worthless, insignificant officials who prefer to keep things at home rather than come to tell us what you're doing wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We continue the debate on Simon Gregorčič. Mr Jerovšek has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u46	Of course, we know Simon Gregorčič's acquaintances. But Mrs. Shirca does not know that the word play "The Storm of Crassus" referred to Mahnič, who is from Crassus and you are also from Crassus, and therefore I said that the master of Slovenian words Simon Gregorčič would probably use the metaphor for you today - the word "The Storm of Crassus", because Mahnič reacted to Gregorčič's song as you do today to Mr Simoniti and to cultural workers. I suggest you read Gregorčič's songs to understand who he was aiming for with his metaphors. I know Gregorčič very well, so I can't see, even though you think of yourself as an acquaintance, but unfortunately I may know him better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u48	Thank you very much. So Mrs Shirca said, in view of her work which the anti-corruption commission had found out about some work being done, while she was the President of the Slovenian Cinematography Council herself, that I had said somewhere that I would destroy someone and his family. Can you tell me where, who, and when? It would be good to hear, because these circumstances, as follows also from what you have continued to say, of course I will gladly listen and we will clear this up if necessary. You're talking about the so-called censors that are placed -- what are these so-called censors? Where do you get this general behavior and knowledge that you can assess so highly what is the censor and what is not? You're a politician here, nothing but me. You're saying that for 15 years, there was actually one difficult situation within this film business and this whole sector. So, 15 years, I don't know, you've been there for the last 12 years. You had a cinema that was closed for two years, and you actually encouraged yourself how internationally and beautifully recognized you are. It's funny that I had to do it in six months. And you've been teasing everyone, so the ones who didn't want it to happen. You're talking about a marriage that's supposed to hurt. The law was a public debate at the end of June, which lasted one month and then extended. There were 17 comments, of which there were only two or three rules, the others not, but the Directorate considered that they were taken into account and that it was trying to include them. I do not see any political law in this law. But I've never heard from you, who apparently thinks you're so sovereignly judging the film, that you're probably one of the biggest movie acquaintances, so I've never heard from you guys that you'd written up a couple of pages of a good proposal if anything had to be changed. If you think you should leave it the way it is, then argue that you should leave it. As I know, this law has been in preparation since 2001, and nothing has been prepared. And then when I was convinced by my coworkers and the people in the movie that I met that something had to happen to change, we went to this marriage. I hope it's good and that it's primarily meant to be a better film production. In doing so, the law also provides for better integration of television, that is, forces, one would say, the Film Fund, Vibe and television, that there will be a stronger film production. I sincerely hope so. If you think it is different, please submit your proposals today, which will be concrete, not flat-rate, but precise. First of all, is it worth changing the film law, second of all, to set things straight and exactly what needs to be arranged? But not just tying it up to those who think they're some of my people, but those of yours are better again. They're basically people who haven't shown any special talent, but they know all about the theory, but they've seen the movies as much as I do. Yeah, I know that because I've been talking to these people, and I've seen it. I've been talking to Mrs. Shirca, too. Just like you're the judge of what you trust. Who, for God's sake, are you who will judge, yes, I believe you, but not you! That's about right. With regard to Cinematheque, I must say that Mr Ravtar is a very successful director, an extremely good-quality man, very well-educated, certainly a man who masters. He's made contact with many foreign institutions. About those e-mails that came from all over the world, you know, everybody knows these things. This will trigger one email at 200 addresses, with a text that is everywhere the same. If I get from Thailand or from Hong Kong or from Botswana to write in, you're the director of Kinoteka, Slovenian, and you're not going to put Stas Rauter up. I don't think they know him in Botswana and that such competent people who would know what's going on here, but we can't take account of him through e-mails like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca, please, on behalf of the motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u50	If one thing, Mr. Secretary, is unethical, it's unethical that you cook capital on the shoulders of the dead. Both in the area of Slovenian Cinematography and also possible in Lipica. And because you asked me to tell you what unethicality I am aiming at, let me tell you that the threats I spoke about earlier have been made in the premises of Radio Slovenije after one encounter, Studio at 17, but, Mr Minister, you can interpret four eyes very much in your own way. I know that, as Mr. Krizman knows, for some answer that you do not recognize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u52	I'm sorry, but this, for those threats, is not true. There were no threats, never any threats, but just the opposite. If you specified your articles and your words that you publish, you would probably sound different. On the shoulders of the dead, I think it's a little deguant. In my articles, in my answers to this name of the distinguished gentleman, who was also my friend, I never mentioned it, but I think it's you and all those who supported you. Very rude.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u53	Mr. Scholch, on behalf of the motioners. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u54	Dear Mr. President, colleagues, Mr. Minister! For two days we have witnessed the very clairvoyant defense of the Minister of Culture. What are we listening to? Coalition Members also say that much is true. Not all of them, of course. What else do they say? We thought you'd go after the worse ministers. Others deserve to be interpelled more than Minister Simoniti. They're more important. We've heard all this. It is a poor comfort for Minister Janša to say that today, after the public has already had an opinion on certain ministers, his most loyal subjects also say that a part of the ministerial team should be replaced. Poor comfort for the country, too. But even if others are worse, it doesn't mean that the Minister of Culture can't be held accountable for the things that are being revealed to him. It was said that we did not get any new evidence and that we did not prove anything. This will be judged by others and cannot be voted on for sure. But yesterday and today, we do have the clairvoyant image of the minister in front of us. First it turns out that the minister has a big problem with numbers, he has a hard time listening to things he can't answer, and that's probably why he's leaving the hall now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u55	Mr Školč, these are distasteful remarks, for 16 hours no one can sit still in the hall without going where the emperor goes on foot.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u56	Mr President, we started the session today at 10 a.m. and I don't think there's even one hour left and it's not even three hours, but let's leave it. When we spoke yesterday about the book depository and when we served the minister with the numbers that his ministerial colleague, Mr Bajuk, gave us and, of course, lost his text, he said again, I have other numbers. What does that mean? That he is also lying to Minister Bajuk, just as he did to Mr Križman. What does that mean? That we have, in addition to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia where the data was obtained by the Ministry of Finance, another office where the data is obtained by the Minister. Or maybe he's incompetent and doesn't know how to read numbers? Or maybe he's trying to cheat again, which is his usual method. Yesterday, his guest pen ministerial colleague, Mr Rupel, visited him about this meeting. Maybe he was afraid he'd lose his newspaper column. But when they got the question together, if you can tell me why they don't pay the bill for the last flight from London, they haven't answered that either. Despite the fact that one user of the year was one of the key figures of the Republican Assembly, which, as everyone claims, was the winner of the coalition. It is true that this is not recorded in the interpretation, and it is true that the minister can say that this does not touch his work, but his decency. It would be good to hear people swearing together to collect contributions, giving up their fees, and paying their bills, why did they lie in this case, too, why didn't they do it? We are faced with the establishment of some culture of lies and within this culture of lies the minister works well. Do we need better evidence than what Comrade Grimes said yesterday? What did he tell us? If there were no Slovenian experts who would write the law that he did it. At that time, all this society, which defended this law, spoke differently, deceived the public and shamed the professors of the University of Ljubljana, journalists, trade unions - let us leave the opposition, this is permissible - the experts of the Council of Europe, international associations and so on so that they do not know what this is and that the blind subjects of the failed regime are. So it was - on a culture of lies and deceptions you convinced people at the referendum. That's what Mr Grimes was talking about. And lying everywhere is a reason enough to demand the Secretary's resignation. Today, in Budapest, Hungary, passions have not cooled down over the revealed lies that their prime minister himself has confessed. Not even today. Of course, lying is permissible when it keeps you in power, that's what we're talking about. But let's turn away. It's not just a matter of ruling lies. In fact, it is the effect of these lies that, in fact, the coalition - and I am concerned - agrees that Minister Simoniti and SDS fully assume the infrastructure of Slovenian culture, with very similar mechanisms. By lying and maneuvering, you set up a Grimes expert and blew everyone else away. It was very similar with Lipica. What happened at Lipica's? Same script. When they pointed out the problems in the cultural protection profession, the people employed in Lipica, the naturalists, the international association, you challenged them all. What kind of expert did you rely on? To Mr. Brace. If Mr Grims is President of the SDS Party Council, Mr Brejc was or is also Vice-President of the Party, a great expert on Lipica. Greater than all who wrote about this book, greater than those who had something to say about how these things are served. There was a very similar maneuver in Cinematec. The people who have established the cinematography, the people who have established the international network, even in African countries, so much so that the minister will be made clear, even in Asian countries, even in European countries and in America, they are nothing. And we get back to work there, I'll say, the son of the President of the Republican Council. Pure human resources manipulation you're doing. This is a picture that is drawn in these two days and you can just look at it. Where do we get to when we're looking at these things? We come into a situation where we all know that everything is fine, but at the same time we see that behind the back of this account with experts, behind the back of people who are making up culture, behind the back, I will say, people who have been making up this mosaic of Slovenian culture for years and years, in fact, SDS is completely devoid of everything. But the minister is not ashamed or lying, nor is he deceived, and we act here as if nothing is proven. I think it's time we were smart. And even if the minister wants us to call him "Baron Münchausen" he'll remain a lying Hooker.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. I'll get everybody a nice round of applause! We're running out of lists now. First of all, let me really thank my colleagues at LDS for some extra commercials. It is certainly nice that they responded in this way and displayed their own image. Transfers are a very good thing. The first thing I'd like to stress in particular is this. When I speak in plural and highlight in this case the SDS, of course I speak on behalf of the Group of Members. But when I say one thing in the first person, it is my personal opinion, and I ask you to take this into account in your interpretations. What we firmly believe in in the SDS is the fact that Slovenian culture deserves a serious approach. That he deserves serious consideration in this national assembly. Unfortunately, we've spent two days trying to prove what we've been alerting for the first day after the interpolation. The text that has been tabled is such that serious treatment of the issue of Slovenian culture simply does not allow. There are no arguments, there are no facts, there are very many qualifications, there are even more, if we are purely honest, there have been audiences and viewers alone in the past two days, there are even more pure disqualifications. We also witnessed personal disqualifications by motioners 'non stop' even a few moments ago. We regret that, honestly. There are certainly many problems that should be considered close by, and there are many things that can certainly be improved. But all this remains for the second time. Now is the opportunity to respond to all that was said untrue at this interpretation. First, there was nothing positive about the Minister. Excuse me, my dear opposition, at least be honest with yourself if you're not all of them. But one thing is the unforgivable fact, in numbers. More money is now available for Slovenian culture than ever before. That's a fact. But there's another one that's not even talked about. One of the fundamental assessments of each minister is, however, based on how much money this minister is able to provide in the budget for the coming period. And when we look at the budgets just adopted for the next two years, there is significantly more money available for culture than there is now. More. The growth of cultural resources is much faster than the growth of the overall resources covered by the budget. This is said to have been extremely successful by the Minister. And now you come to this National Assembly and ask the Minister to be dismissed. Yeah, why not? We firmly believe in the SDS that there is only one explanation for this. Because the year 2008 is coming, when we will preside over the European Union, when this will be a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for us to present Slovenian culture to all of Europe and at the same time establish ourselves as those who are capable of leading the entire European Union in the coming period. And I believe the current opposition's nightmare is that this government will do it, but it will do it, and believe me, it will succeed. That's what follows from this story. So we have been witnesses in the past days, in very big and hard words, who have just tried to cover up the whole story. By the way, I firmly believe that the stories that have been scattered to the heavens in the past period, the story of the Roma and the story of the "deleted" who are now internationalising them in every way possible to be inflated to this extent, with the media influence that LDS colleagues still have, that they have been inspired precisely in order to avoid that nightmare, successfully leading this government at the head of the European Union. But this ultraleive story was turned into an absurd one, which, not only in what I was talking about yesterday, when as the first conscience on TV was announced that nothing important had happened to some Roma family that day, fifth or tenth of all, that the historic peak of NATO had begun in Riga. Not just that. But it is even more fun that all of this has been born to those who wanted to spread this thing, that at the invitation of a very respectable February one of the opposition parties, the mayor of Vebra, came to work barricades of several Roma from Ribnica, against the other Romani family. Then somebody else say who's here, I don't know, a nationalist, or I don't know what. But the matter has certainly gone too far and that is why all the calls for calm and for everything that follows, and especially for more political culture, are still in place. Let's just go back to the interpolation. A huge negative was said about RTV Slovenia. I am firmly convinced, and with all responsibility, I can also say this on behalf of the SDS, so that we are ignorant of this. It is not just a comparison with the previous period, where we might already be afraid for the health of our opposition colleagues, because collective amnesia has taken place. LDS never controlled television, it was said. You know what, in Slovenian newspapers, in one particular week, a credible and never denied testimony about a pre-election broadcast was published just in 2004, when the secretary-general, the high-ranking LDS, called for a television show that was already running, and asked the responsible editor to go back to the president of LDS and ask him a further question. And that one should act as a protection of independence, rejecting it. No, no, no. She gave the order and the reporter who ran the show told her herself that she had received the instruction on the drum, the camera went back to the president of LDS and asked him additional questions. So much for the independence of national television at the time the LDS was in power. "Dear Tone, when you are agitating among people for media independence, remember dear Tone, what a great influence your client has had on them all along the transition, with or just past the law". Signed Borut Pahor, SD President. That's not ours. Colleagues! When you have forgotten all of this collectively, the question is why you are now so negative about the image of RTV Slovenia, and not only hers, but also about the work that has been said. I firmly believe that you were betrayed by your own secretary-general when she demanded that the Saturday annex of Del cease to work, because one request of the LDS was not met to present a special interview with their mayoral candidate, Dr. Kunič, who then actually got 1%, as polls showed him, on which this editorial decision was justified. What's in it for all of us? That the LDS would obviously destroy a medium rather than allow it to come out of its claws. This is the message of this story. And I firmly believe that you have so much negative charge - even when it came to a referendum, you have been overlying - just to give a signal to your constituents and voters, to move to another public newspaper, where you still have such a strong influence as you have in the past period, but what will happen to national television, and you care a little bit more. I'm sorry to hear that. For you know, as long as this is the case, then the basic message from this story is that you still see the 2004 elections and the 2004 referendum on RTV Slovenia as a misunderstanding. People made a mistake, they actually wanted you and gave you the right one, and they voted wrong by accident, and something that shouldn't have happened happened. But such an understanding of the story is wrong, people have very well understood what it is, they have overlooked you. We should change our way of working. It was not good for you to be as insulting as you were in those two days. I am pleased, on the one hand, that you have shown your image to the public, because this is what we wanted to achieve with direct transmissions. On the other hand, I regret knowing that the National Assembly will have even less reputation in the public than it has in the past period. That's how it is. However, there is something else that must be said for the Minister, which has also been misinterpreted. He was able to find facts on the basis of which he pointed to individual claims in interpretation. I don't understand, I just don't understand how it is possible in this National Assembly, where we've heard endlessly big words in support of the Kosovo Commission, in support of objectivity, the anti-corruption commission, about the necessity of its existence at all costs, and when an opinion of this Commission is made and a quote is read, it is certainly justified, and then there is fire in the roof. Yeah, how come someone's been reading a quote like that? It will be necessary to decide whether this committee is objective or necessary. If you were defending her, then defend her actions. There was a lot of silence. For example, there was a lot of talk about those experts from abroad, when we had many times pointed out their actual position and, on the other hand, stressed something that in all ways tried to keep the media quiet or throw it under the table. That, on the other hand, they supported this Law on RTV as European-oriented as a democratic law as well as respected legal experts, if you want, because among them there are lecturers of law, constitutional law, human rights at the most prominent German universities such as Hans-Gert Poettering and Dr Kristian Schmütz and even Wilfrid Martins himself, one of the fathers of modern united Europe. Of course, that's not what I wanted to hear. There was even such an absurd situation that the opinion of one of the staff members, the opinion of his boss, who spoke on behalf of the institutions and was totally the opposite, was positive for the RTV Act, and then it was thrown under the table. So much for that story. One more thing. He's been operating on a bunch of untruths all along. One of those I warned you about yesterday, I also qualified her. Let me just point out once again - in order for one person to come to terms, twice before, the constitutional right to information to the public to launch a false, and you have repeated this falsehood several times today, even though I showed credible documents yesterday that put you on the lie. And nobody objected to these documents because you know they're real. However, the Minister, who was able to provide good resources that he could provide for good co-workers, eventually acted very rationally. Everyone knows that previous governments have hired and paid tremendously for many of the laws of the outside team. For all these laws, as far as I know, you didn't have to give a tolar. This minister deserves to be acknowledged. And he deserves our support, and with a common desire to continue his successful work, we also provide him with it on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you. I ask the Minister, does he want any more? [[No, no, ……]] I'm asking the proponents. Here you go, Mr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What we just heard is an interesting approach to interpolation. My colleague Grimes probably knows that interpellation, which is on the show, is an interpretation of the work of the Minister of Culture, not the work of colleague Majda Shirca. And what needs to be demonstrated is that his work is appropriate, not what Micah and John did wrong in Dolenjska. That's why he missed his goal. But this happens to him regularly. He deliberately forgets that in preparing a law that is so much talk, people who are proven to be expert in this area have been pushed aside. Dr. Manca Kosher is a recognized expert in this field in this country. Whether someone likes it or not, especially strangers, is another question. Prof. Dr. Slavko Splihal may seem to such an expert in another area to be inappropriate in an area that he does not know much about, but is an internationally established name in the field of communication; I do not know if you know a more established name in that country. Dr. Marko Milosavljevic, also known as the established name in this area. Dr. Sandra Bashich. Instead of these people writing the law from the first to the last letter, it was said here yesterday, our colleague! Praiseworthy takeover! Today he also said that he did not charge a tolar for this. Okay. But I'd rather see for myself if the law were written as it was proper, and I wouldn't tell the minister anything, even if it cost a million tolars. I think it would be much better for this country. This is mixing arguments, this is logic that I think is extremely harmful to this area. Last time I had the chance to listen to a late-night TV show where there was talk about how we created the image of Slovenia. There, too, were people who were very different according to their qualifications. Mr Licul, who is the author of this country's money, and I think that even the passport and I don't know what else, again, I think that for everyone who knows something about this, a name that is important enough to be invited to this project has not been invited or participated in this project, a society that has only offered to participate in this has been rejected. However, there were quite a number of ministers sitting on this committee, which is a privilege, in some other areas. But just because I know golf doesn't mean I'm fixing Lipica. Just because I'm a doctor doesn't mean I'm building houses. If I'm a geologist, I don't write laws that regulate the media. That's basic logic. If I'm doing this for free, it doesn't qualify me any more to deal with these areas. That, Mr. Secretary, is a serious matter. The fact that your colleague came here to tell you that they do not support your claim, and I am very grateful to Mr Grimes for the fact that the law was written by experts, but he wrote it, is to me the discovery of this interpretation. At the same time, I learned two more. Not only are you not particularly fond of the truth, that you speak contrary to the facts, in this case, now that I know that you like to say one thing in four eyes, but you represent another in public, I look at you differently. Professor Krizman says you told him in private that as long as Sovič is in Maribor, the mayor will not be in the puppet theatre for that long. You're denying it here now. I find it hard to believe that Professor Crossman is lying. However, I have a problem, including believing that the minister is lying. But when I hear that you were actually threatening my colleague Maja Shirca on the radio, it seems hard to believe that it happened to you again, that someone was lying about you again. But you're morally clean, and you just keep coming up with people who have a weird experience with you. Who's there to argue with, who's this weird light on? We have a feeling you're actually some kind of Baron Münchausen. It is no coincidence, as already mentioned by our colleague Školč, that in Slovenia we call him Klukec.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u61	Mr. Minister, do you have a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Professor Crossman said what he said he said. Prof. Simoniti, if we call ourselves titles, as if it were something particularly credible, it claims the other way around. And Mrs. Shirca says something, and I say something else. Isn't it strange that you have this experience that you have this experience that you find strange, and I can't have this experience. I also have an interesting, strange experience of saying something that is not true. And you're putting yourself in some role to judge the Slovenian public here, to whom we believe more and to question these things. That's how anyone can talk, you understand? I don't know why you guys should be the criteria for what's true and not, and you're a lot of explaining what's probable and what's not likely. That's strange.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u63	Thank you. Even on behalf of the motioners. Mr. Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u64	It's not that, Mr. Secretary, that I would be the criterion of truth. The point is that here before this National Assembly, it appears that you spoke publicly that the authors of the law are experts. And here we found out that he wrote it from the first to the last letter of our colleague Grimes. The point is that Professor Krizman told the city council in Maribor that you told him that as long as Sovič was mayor, there would be no money for the puppet theatre. I could quote you again, but this moment, of course, I won't. And the point is that in these two facts, which are evident, the first is obviously incorrect, you were put on a lie by your colleague Grims, another fact came up. Professor Crossman claims otherwise than you. And Shirtz's colleague warns that you threatened her and her family in private. And what surprises me is that you are attracted to situations like this. It's not a word for it. I understand you're saying it's exactly what you're saying. But I'm surprised this happens to you so often.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u65	Thank you. Yes, please, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u66	I don't know if I'd threaten Mrs. Ambassador. I don't know, and it's so weird that it's sticking to me. But this is produced by you, you pure innocence, candidate, candidate, snow white people. Listen, because in my eyes I have to say something special credibility, you don't enjoy it, because you've been saying things for two days that I'm lying and you're not giving any new arguments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Gulic, on behalf of the motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u68	On behalf of the proposer, of course. Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I will respond to something that has been said in the last few shows, particularly in relation to this great distinction between us and you. I kept hearing that, we're fine, you're lousy. People "like" missed us, that's what Mr Grimes said at the referendum that it was. People believed us, not you. Yes, people did, but people believed, of course, wrong data, misleading data, lying. People made the right choice, given what they heard. Normally, because they were offered very much, but now, of course, it's not all there. That's what we were talking about. Before, my colleague, Školcz, and I showed a scheme, a scheme of parto-cracial intrusions that this law allows, and of course, it's no wonder that you don't have to call the press and explain what you said. You don't have to because it's already done. That's what this law allows. And here is the objective responsibility of the minister who introduced the law into the legislative procedure, not the author or authors, however it was. Do I trust the minister that they were the authors, or do I believe Mr Grimes, who has now acquired this authority? I don't care who the author is. I want to know what the law allows. In particular, the law allows us to lose something in Slovenia that is very important: we lose the right not to live in fear. Journalists retreated or retreated — those living in fear. Even police officers, as we have heard, do not hope to carry out their duties and people examine what they drive. This is the wrong world! What's going on? But that's all in this culture that's starting now. It's a civil standard that's being introduced, or an uncivilized norm. To explain how nothing was charged for this product, then I immediately ask the question, What is it, then, if nothing is worth it? It would be right if it were calculated, and it would be right if it were paid. And of course, if there is then some kind of benevolence, it can be donated for charity purposes. The tax should also be paid for the product it ordered, apparently, by the Ministry. That's how it is. That's how it's done. That's how it's done in a legal and normal country. Even where companies have trade between them, the tax should be taxed. You know that well, everyone who's ever done anything. The kind of thing is that they have proven themselves and proved themselves during these two days, but it's common to all of them that there was a lot of fiction, deception, a lie is sometimes a pretty hard word, but I think there was also some kind of interplay. The main point was that the Minister in all of his own, I must say, that he did not say anything very eloquent about the performances that would have corrected him from our accusations. In fact, even so, his surprising eloquence and often in response, which we have not been used to so far, tells me about it, not to defend itself against the charges, but to make the most of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Scholch, on behalf of the motioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I would also like to confront the Minister with his mechanism of argument. I don't think it's such an important question to me why my colleague Grims, who is a member of the National Assembly, didn't put this law into the procedure himself. Surely I could have done this myself, but if he had done this, then it would not have been possible to deceive you with the help of the Ministry, because it would have been very difficult for a fellow Grims to face in a crossfire of people who have been dealing with this all their lives and who you are "smileing" and could not lie to people, other appropriate words are not that behind this is a great professional thought, but a political party's plan. But let's go to the mechanism he used, now I don't know if I can tell the minister or I have to tell the professor that it will be more accurate, Mr Simoniti. He said, "The word against the word, and who will decide here." I will read his statement from 13.4. i.e.: "Just as other laws are prepared within the competent ministry and in accordance with the considerations of its experts." In this sentence I will not find, I will say, a city for my colleague Grims, if it was later, this was on 13.4. on the national constituency bodies again and he also found the city for further consultations with others. But that's a word. We heard a second word yesterday, Mr Grimes' word. He said: "The law on RTV Slovenia, you know that I was actually the main author who wrote it was confirmed at the referendum. I was the author of this whole marriage. What's getting all tangled up now is that Klemen Jakič wrote it, and it looks like it's pure crap. The whole text was written on my side from the first to the last word." Minister, you didn't deny a few phone calls. Today, you have justly escaped from the hall, as Mr Tsukati does to me. So, we're justifiably thinking about it because we're dealing with you and not with your colleague and because you haven't denied him that you lied before. It is true, however, that this was not written in interpretation, but it is also true that you have invited us to present you with a new fact. I just answered you with your mechanism, and that's enough for me. Of course, it is difficult to tolerate these relocations of the problem elsewhere, when the candidates are opposed to whom and what they have done in the past, but things at this point are not getting out of the hands of the opposition, but the coalition. And if anyone thinks it's possible to organise, I'll say, these kinds of records and appearances in the media, as it was previously obvious by a fellow Member, if you're behind all this again LDS, you're closing your eyes before the fact that the government is becoming unable to face the problems, to answer them. And don't tell me that the LDS also stands for tonight, if it's right to believe people in Greece or somewhere, in fact, the village guard was being examined by police vehicles. Don't tell us we did this and don't tell us we made a mess of the police. There's been a mix-up at the police station. He is again responsible for the confusion in the police at the formal level, but this is not the subject of this interpretation, I apologize, but I am responsible to you as you accuse us, the politically delegated CEO, the minister who is a politician, and theirs, I will say, the former close associate and sponsor, Mr Janša. Here you seek responsibility for things falling apart, not in the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u71	Thank you. Does Mr. Secretary want some more? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you very much. About who made the marriage and who didn't. In any event, the law was passed and the product was made at the Ministry of Culture. Mr Grims, who has been a member of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board for many years, I think that even two mandates are likely, or, I say, according to his efforts, which I know, he knew in detail the structure of this television and radio. He made a draft of this law, and the other things were done at the Ministry of Culture. The RTV law, which came out, was discussed in many public presentations, public controversy broadcasts, where everyone, including experts, performed, we also performed, was compared with the laws in Europe. I think that when I got a little deeper into this thing that I had, at least that feeling, of course it's deceptive, but when we also faced other gentlemen, Krivic and the like, whom I appreciate certainly and their diligence, including Mrs Kosher and similar, I have always had in my hands a few more behaviors about how this is arranged on other televisions. We have acquired 23 laws regulating public television. In detail, we looked into them, studied them, and then there was the final version. You're all politicians in the process, you've been ministers, or you've been in the public services by the ministries, and you know the procedure. It goes to certain inter-ministerial coordination, etc., to arrive at the final picture of this. So, for the first time, this law is completely European comparable, it introduces into it, we just hang on to those things that please some to trouble them, but similarly or even equally arranged saints, program saints, supervisory saints and that structure, hierarchy, are just as regulated as in many other laws. And it also brings some things that were necessary for the law to be adopted due to digitisation and similar things. Once again, however, this law is completely European comparable to the 23 countries in the European Union. This is sufficient and sufficient criteria and a basis for us to be perfectly proud of this law if you want, or for us to be nothing to be ashamed of when we compare this law with other laws in the European Union. This is a sufficient basis for this law to live and to be implemented. There are certain problems in this implementation of the law, but I think it is those who are now responsible for making this law work properly. They are there at work or in places for a good five months, clearly there are problems because there are many, not so fast. We also spend a lot of time at the Ministry, if I say so, on the spot, but it's moving slowly. This is also evident by the fact that I would not be sweeping with the government simply because this government is strange. This government has many successes in all areas, including the Ministry of Culture. I think that this law is a product of one concern and once again, this law is European comparable and is now problematic from a year and a half ago, I find it extremely unproductive.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u73	Thank you. This concludes the debate on interpolation. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else would like to discuss it? I'm opening the application. Yes, Minister, it's enough for you to raise your hand because you can't sign up automatically. Red numbers don't apply. Red letters. And you all have the right to speak. Mr. Gantar, please, you have the floor. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I probably won't spend it all, or I will. Dear Mr President, honourable Minister, co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! First of all, Mr. Minister, you have disappointed me in your answers today and also yesterday. You have disappointed not only at the level of the minister who talks about these things, but you have also disappointed me at a personal level. I don't think it was good that you all went to the level too many times to try personal disqualifications at the expense of trying to talk about the people who gave you such or other insights. I don't think that's good. It would be right that the subject of this interpolation would, in particular, be a public policy in the field of culture, the media, but not an attempt to reverse the interpretation of those who read you more or less justly, in my opinion, justified, certain shortcomings and errors in the management of cultural policy in Slovenia, for which you are responsible. I want to say again and clearly what I've been saying all the time, and all the time, the law on RTV is an unacceptable mistake. You've inherited the author of a law that has been unfemalely boasting that he has prepared an excellent law, that he is a good expert. I have to say, after what I heard from him, he's a bad acquaintance, a very bad acquaintance. I myself have participated in the debates on this law, I myself have participated, Mr Minister, with you on one of these shows, and I have not had the impression that your arguments have prevailed not between the profession and not there in the wider space, but the argument of power, the powerlessness of the argument prevails. The fact is, and I think this is your unforgivable mistake, that RTV Slovenia as a public service is too direct and too concretely tied to a concrete, once-in-a-lifetime political structure. You say that the law of Europe is comparable, that some other laws have a similar way of forming, that the National Assembly or parliaments similarly appoint these members and so on. But you've forgotten the order of the details. True, some parliaments do, but by special procedure, according to special procedures and methods, or it depends on some tradition that has been written, whether written or not written or tradition, that no one thinks of making use of concrete political stability in Parliament every time. That is why, Mr Minister, democracy and these matters are formed on the basis of unwritten rules and traditions, not by simple voting. And you ignored that. We have offered you a different way, and the combination of this system of yours and the system of civil society decision-making, and you have not warmed up about it. You were strong with a power argument. And today we have RTV Slovenia as we have it, it is viewed by fewer people, it is producing broadcasts that are increasingly scandalous, it is applying the principle that I am very concerned about, the patriotic reporting, when journalists are supposed to report in terms of the national interest represented by every single government. This was the direct direction of Hotiza; let us forget matters, let us report from our perspective. The public service has to report on all aspects impartially, on all dimensions. You can make comments, you or them, and so on. But the public service should remain a public service. That is why I see that this policy will lead to the decomposition of this system. Not to mention the promises you made with regard to the third programme on the second programme. Not to mention direct deceptions when we knew that this program would not be possible to set up, and you knew that, and you still argued that. These things aren't good. Because of these things, you actually lost the trust that was. I don't think we can support you in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. What would be worth something is this way of reasoning, as presented by the current opposition or the motioners. In spite of what they have been doing all the time; they have been doing this before, it was also the red thread of the referendum story at the time of the campaign itself. They themselves launch a thought, one their interpretation, one their own untruth, not to use any worse expression, and then to the point of impotence. And they're convincing about it. With the media power they have, in the end, a lot of people actually believe them. Even if you didn't know them well, you wouldn't know yourself very well. Like, just two cases. They are now declaring that they have discovered a new fact - the authorship of the law. People of God, do you know how I got into this story? That the Ministry just started sending reporters to me to explain the content of the law because I was involved in his preparation. That's why I ended up in the public part of this story. And if you're a year and a half after this thing was public - and I've never denied authorship, by the way - you're discovering this as a new fact, I can give you a good morning, really, good morning, colleagues! But as for these sentences that I have spoken, I have told you that many more than a year ago I have said them literally the same in the camera, but most of them have never been published; and it is also clear why not. Another such story, the way you're launching something yourself, is this story with a contribution. We are nice, I myself have honestly said that after a new payment, it will be lower than it would have been under the old law. That was the whole story. And we have made this very clear through the mechanisms of the new law and the mechanisms of the old law. I've shown you this four times with credible documents, with dates, and everyone can be sure of that. But you launched yourself to promise, I don't know, a few percent reduction, in numbers, and then you, by yourself, polished your untruth to disability, but at the time of the referendum campaign after it, and today, by the way, you're doing it. You're in conflict with yourself. And people missed you. And this whole interpolation story is a single unsuccessful pre-election move. If it had been unsuccessful, if you had witnessed your election outcome, in the previous local elections you had a strong 20 percent, now you've gone back by almost 10% based on the outcome at the time. And get over it but imagine it and stop it! It's not nice, someone said before, "Yeah, it'd be better if the marriage was paid." He was paid with endless amounts of manure. If a man could pack it up and sell it on a cup, believe me, he'd be a very rich man. But that's how it is. I personally participate in things when I am sure they are in the best interests of Slovenia. That is why I have estimated that, in the direction of greater democracy, greater plurality, and I have participated to the best of my ability. I was glad the minister invited me to participate. And that's it. And nothing said by the minister is really ruled out by what's been said a long time ago, what we've been saying all along. One and the same. That there was a framework of law and that it was then processed in the procedure at the Ministry itself, coordinated with the interested and then went through the government procedure, with a whole range of the most respected legal and other professional names in this area being produced, if you want to be co-authors, and they have processed the text of the law. But I also said that some basic solutions were and most of the texts remained the way they were originally written. And I also consider it a confession that I did a good job. I didn't mean it! I have studied foreign proposals, colleagues and colleagues, and if we look at a little Austrian law, some other laws would see that these laws are very similar. But that's not the point. The point of this story is what I said before. If you can't attack directly, you're attacking the author. All you do is spread negative energy about RTV Slovenia, because you want to give people a signal that something has escaped your reach and that they should go somewhere else where this media asset still exists. This is the core of this story, and this is also the sad core of this interpretation, which represents a missed opportunity precisely because of the way you have done it, due to the date when you submitted this, when you could make a very good use of this for one important conversation on the issue of Slovenian culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Whoever was at Boršnikov's meeting in Maribor for the last two years, he could hear from the organizers that it was the first time that the ministry had stepped a little deeper into the puddle and devoted much more money to Boršnik's meeting. And this is the credit of Minister Simoniti. Regarding the puppet theatre, I think that in previous budgets some money has been spent several times in the previous government for the puppet theatre in Maribor, but the Maribor Municipality did not come to this and remained the case as it is. With regard to these naked fertilisers that have been pouring on the minister in the last two days, it is still necessary to add that the interpolation writers have also poured this manure, and they have also been "sprayed". I think it's more like a minister. Since my head was smashed and I can't smell it anymore, I think today is the first time I've been satisfied for the first time that this smell is being preserved, which is spreading here in Parliament. I advise the Minister, take one day off tomorrow, go to the Hill, take the book with you [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Thank you. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u79	Thank you. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u80	The message of this long conversation is - the minister rejected all the opposition's findings, but the answer is, yes, but with lies. You're lying, Mr. Secretary, when you say that the TV contribution is lower. You're lying, Mr. Secretary, when you say television is better and better. And you lie when you say she's more democratic and more relaxed. And you also lied when you were defending this marriage and deceiving people to support it. Why do you need to lie at all, Mr. Minister, because you were defending what you did before you became a minister when you were the head of the headquarters or the pianist of Mrs Barbara Brezigar and you said there was something to be done. That's exactly what you've done now, and now you're lying that you've done for the good and for the better. At the same time, Mr. Secretary, you're also lying about not breaking the laws. You couldn't rule out the obvious in the interfacing process that you put into operation the Bled Castle without a public invitation to tender. You're also lying when you say that you don't violate cultural heritage and that you're smarter than the Constitutional Court. You're also lying to me that you're unpolitically recruiting, but at the same time, Minister, there are people on the road, which are some of them, not just one of them on the road. And they're on the road because they haven't lied, but because they've advocated fair and beneficial cultural interests. It is true that you have not reduced the resources of culture, Mr Minister, but the additional resources that you have acquired, dedicated and directed to increasingly targeted media and the most vital part of culture, and this is the most important thing you should hear within this interpeel conversation, the most vital part of culture, which is why artistic programs suffer. Minister, that's the problem. And it's supposed to be art, and that's why this interpellation was written. You've been looking for alibis, and because the answers to this violence that's being done, you don't have, you're focusing attention elsewhere. Politics now denies the help of this facility I'm talking about. And that is why, Mr Minister for Culture, Mr Vasko Simoniti, we do not want you to be a minister anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Yesterday, the Minister tried to make an effort and give some opinions on the reasons that I myself stated, why I believe that the interpretation is justified, and why I will also vote in favour of the discharge of the Minister myself. When I carefully read his statement from the magnetogram again, I found that he rejected everything without arguments, and I would therefore like to confirm again; yes, Mr Minister, you have rejected everything without arguments. If I had time, I'd be about. 10 lines you've written down, and I don't have, so I'll say other things in my own words. You're still saying that the findings for the campaign that you've cited, which we're challenging, are not correct. I would show you an ad you had for public RTV, and in it you wrote quite incontrovertibly, "for a lower RTV contribution", with big letters, you can come here and you can read. If anyone understands your explanation, but it's true that you haven't raised your contribution in two and a half years, then I don't understand it, then I don't understand the consistency in your claims. You were talking about things that didn't come true in the end. You can bend, you can talk about reality, you can talk about comparison with wages. All these are escapes from the fact that was said and not realized in the campaign. Second of all, Mr. Secretary. You wrote; "for a better program of public radiotelevision". I hope that the latest events on public RTV are still not a better program for you. And I hope that if not you, at least the members of the Programme Council, will make a commitment that they have made as one of the conditions for their election, they may be elected or appointed persons who, with their knowledge, reputation or achievements in cultural, educational or any other area of social life, can contribute to the good functioning and strengthening of public RTV in both Slovenia and abroad. I hope and believe that the members of the RTV Programme Council will be elected regardless of how they were elected, and regardless of the fact that they are mainly representatives of the ruling coalition in their composition, because they were elections, and this was the task that the members of the electoral commission were given to exercise their integrity and to ensure that a better public RTV programme is truly implemented, not what we are witnessing today. And the last. I would like to confirm once again that your wish and demand to reduce the political impact on the public service of RTV could have been justified. But you didn't do it. You have achieved only that the political influence has changed - that you now have full authority in the ruling coalition in the way you formed the law and in the way you implement the law. And it would be unkind to more or many journalists and journalists, by their names and surnames, to talk about the fact that there is real fear in public RTV, but not fear of guilt, Mr. Minister, as you speak, but extreme fear of position, for the loss of a job. If everything is not described and written as the editors will want, which are dependent on the Director-General, and this Director-General on the Programme Council and all of this on the ruling coalition to which you belong, Mr Minister, and so do you. And these are all the reasons why I will not vote in favour of your release. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr. Scholch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u84	Thank you very much. We have just heard that our arguments are so good, so convincing that Mr Grims would believe them if he did not know himself. I would just like to repeat them for those who differ in material. Five minutes before the 13th, the minister of culture was late, but he admitted that he lied to people about who wrote the RTV Act. He said that Mr Grimes was right, so he lied, and that is enough for me to lose this minimum necessary confidence in him. All the other things in this law are considerable misappropriation. The third program, the minister, is not. Where there are transfers, that means they interfere with another programme. We don't have one program anymore, but we've got a part of another program down. That's the logic. I don't know if you understand that, but that's the facts. Yesterday I gave you the numbers on the VAT collection on the books sold, given that you claimed you had your numbers. To this day, you have not returned your numbers in the same polite manner that you can lead the debate forward. I gave you a copy signed by the Ministry of Finance, but you don't think it's worth giving these numbers. The difference is obvious. This is because you claim that the programmes envisaged by the book fund are 100 percent or more implemented, and from those figures it can be calculated that this does not reach even 30%. Mr Minister, this kind of discussion, this kind of underestimation of Members convinces me that I completely deny you confidence.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Pike.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Now it's been two years since this minister was confirmed in the National Assembly. The opposition didn't confirm it at the time, but I'm not naive to expect it to be today, not by any chance. Of course, she was already afraid that everything would not be all right, as it had been for the last 50 years and then 12 years, when she ruled that those letters "dear Tone" and so on would be no more, and that is painful. When we heard this interpretation, we felt like we were talking about RTV, and we were talking about the RTV Act, and I was wondering why. Probably because we balanced things in this area, stepped on someone's tail, and he's not happy about it, he lost his primate. I'm saying we've balanced things with this law, that's all. After all, we live in democracy. Every four years there are elections, and if we have written such a biased law, once the government has changed, this law is written on the skin of the present opposition, if you look at it from this point of view, and then you can take advantage of it and do with it what we have done. If that were true, it's not true. It's just not true. All procedures went through the National Assembly, and those who say they were wrong are denying the National Assembly because the voters decided to vote in such a way as to elect the National Assembly as it was elected. Then what is it? This National Assembly is the highest democratic body in this country, and it has decided as it has decided, and after all the procedures that are correct, there is a referendum behind all these allegations that I am now making. Who says a referendum is not the most democratic way to decide who hopes to say it? None. The voters confirmed this law at the referendum. And what? Of course, interpellation is a political thing, and it's written by politicians by non-experts. That would be the end of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Maybe this is where you'd continue where it ended. According to the logic of the interpolators, obviously if the law is bad, more than half of those who voted for it in the referendum should be interpelled. But you didn't need this debate in the National Assembly, and you, at the moment you filed the interpretation, accused the minister and convicted him. Don't talk now about what he said and keep piling about how he lied, then you're sure you can't trust him anymore. You wrote in here the moment you put the interpolation differently than the Rules of Procedure to get rid of it. You did not wait for the answers, nor for the debate to maintain at least a minimum political culture and credibility before the National Assembly and before the Slovenian public, and said that, given what has been said now and what we have heard, we are proposing either a decision on the basis of Article 253, paragraph 1, assessing the work of the Minister, or on the basis of paragraph 3, to resolve it. No, no, no. The moment you felt that something had to be done because local elections were ahead of us, you wrote, the minister needs to be resolved because we feel that something is wrong. Or as one of you said when he put certain statements in his mouth, "it seems hard to believe that what he is saying is the truth." I think it's hard to believe, please. I'm also one of those who agrees to let builders build houses, let teachers teach. But then what should sociologists do? All because they know everything. They're allowed to do anything. And I don't want to say anything bad about anything, but in this way, respected colleagues and colleagues, this is a serious matter that is supposed to be an interpretation without being able to talk and not discuss. Today, there is a minister on the wallpaper for all that the director of a public agency, the director of another public institution, the director of a fund and so on. There are things in interpretation that the Minister does not only have powers, and there is no influence, and it would be very wrong for him to get involved. And because it does not touch, it is revealed to him, why it is not involved in them, in the holy God. On the other hand, he reads things that are not in his domain or within his jurisdiction. None of what has been written and said justifies the belief that the Minister does not act well. I've said that before, and I'll say it again. One of the few Culture Ministers - I think there are at least two in this Chamber who have been Ministers of Culture in the past governments - who have managed to increase funds in the area, which has always been fairly neglected. In the governments you were sitting in, it's always been said, oh, because culture, that's something like that on the side, and even if we don't raise a little index, it's no big deal. We know how things were going and how things were going. One of the few, if not the only minister who increased the funds. And I think that by increasing funds for an area, it is also given meaning and weight. I think it's absolutely crystal clear to everyone and that's why they're supposed to put him down. No, I don't think we will. I think he deserves credit for what he's done so far. And I want this journey to continue. But the interpreters should consider how, if we are thus to witness in all further interpretations, I think it's a waste of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'd say it's a typical "keep the thief" case. The loudest are those who are interested in the issue of culture and through various family ties are objectionable and are not the most credible to accuse the minister of lying. Sometimes it is also necessary to collect under your own carpet and place it at your own doorstep. This is an example of "keep a thief" and distracting attention from the cultural problems that have arisen. Last but not least, the articles that were in the media, where it was made clear and the applicants also said that they agree that there is indeed more money for culture. But there are a few more problems. Yes, of course, according to this logic that you somehow maintain, a little money for culture, everyone will be satisfied, there will be no problems, because there will be no "fossy" if someone gets a little more money, then it is "fossy" elsewhere. That's how you can't do it, and this minister obviously did something different, and now you're accusing him of even lying. But there's something else that's interesting. You talk a lot about RTV and I'd say here you're talking about your own experiences and your understanding of the functioning of RTV under the previous law. The Minister should be guilty if the broadcast is no longer in that period or if there is no euro league on public television. This is a typical example of how it used to be. I didn't say it was, but maybe, but it's not possible under this law anymore. And the Minister is not to blame for it if he is no longer a Euroliga or a broadcast after that date, but he would be if he were to do so and try to influence. What you're accusing is anti-interpellation. I'd say backup. I'm surprised that you're so publicly explaining your methods and accusing the Minister of not working as you may or may not have been used to, but as you should not be doing. You have proven that the Minister does well, that he does not interfere and that the interpretation was indeed some sort of pre-election maneuver. And I'd say that the interpretation of the RTV charge is the interpretation of the referendum, and maybe after your old pattern, that people should be replaced if they don't. But that's not how it goes. And obviously, you were only talking about the impact, what someone could change, what the minister should do, and what could be affected there, but you are not going to want the public institution RTV to become financially consolidated and to act professionally and that the broadcasts would be viewed. That's the point. This is the essence for all viewers or all those who pay for this RTV contribution. But there was very little talk or nothing but influence. And now a few more words about Lipica. You said yourself there was a big barn. But so far, nothing has happened there, except that it was falling apart, and that garbage has been deposited there, and, like, the cleaning machine hasn't worked, and it's not supposed to work. And now all of a sudden you find out, that's what was said here today in public. I was very careful that it was sometimes a fevd of one other party. What did you just find out? Where were you before? That's why it's unfair to say this now that it was sometimes a feud of another party with which you were in the coalition. That's incorrect. Now it's starting to move, those piles of garbage have been cleaned up, the end of the destruction is over, and now it's all wrong, because something has started to move because this collapse has stopped because something has started to happen because tourists have started to come there. And it turns out there's something to be done. Of course, that's painful now. Because then you can prove that if something can change now, something is moving for the better that everything that has been done so far has, I don't know, been bad or didn't want to, it's all the same. I would say that what you're showing in interpretation has nothing to do with life, and now I agree with the one who said yesterday that this interpretation is an intellectual black construction because you're speaking something saloon that doesn't suit you that I wouldn't change anything. Your Honor, to conclude, I might recall what Mr Potræ said when he said that the law did not change the political influence, but that half had changed that now the ruling coalition had an influence. Yeah, what does that mean? According to the previous law, you had a greater influence, whether you were in position or in opposition? You know, this is something that's hard to admit to, but apparently it's not aware of what he said, and all of this is saying that this interpolation is really a black construction, and such a black construction is not going to be supported by me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary of State and both ministers! I really didn't imagine that in these two days, it was possible to listen to so much anger, so much sarcasm, lies, deceptions, demagogies that we could hear mainly from LDS. This hatred is clearly due to the failure to acknowledge the defeat that was suffered at the RTV referendum, and this hatred really has no limits. I'll be more specific. Mr Gaber, who is not present now, has much to say, however, if the Minister leaves the Chamber for a few minutes, he was extremely humiliating, insulting, cynical and considered himself an expert in both education and culture, and we know that he actually judges himself as a top expert everywhere. I don't want to judge it, but others can judge it. And if we look at the legacy he left in the field of education, we see that everything is different from what he imagines. It will take many years for education to be the way Slovenia needs. To make a concrete contribution now to the discussions Mrs Shirca had, one of the main preparers of the interpolation. Apparently, she is herself an expert in culture, especially in the field of film. I don't want to judge it myself, but it can be public again, the public is the one who judges, not a handful of experts in a closed circle who themselves recognise some expertise. If I want to illustrate these matters with concrete data, I do not recall having in the last ten years in the field of film so many criticisms, some important achievements that the public would have accepted. Since the movie Flowers in autumn, I don't remember any film being accepted in public as it should. All those film achievements that attributed themselves to certain achievements, a handful of experts, could be worth a price among them, unfortunately there is no such thing in the public eye. And I am always sure that the final judgment must always be given to people, and also to culture, because culture is intended for everyone and not just a handful, some individuals. Mr Školč, he was also a cultural minister, if we evaluate his mandate, we know that there was a great void in the field of culture at the time, and that was also his debate and it is a shame to judge these matters. I would now like to make a few words about the experts Mr Gaber was referring to. All these names come from the FDV. Apparently, only the FDV is passing through some recognised experts, who apparently do not enjoy the support they have in the public eye. I'm sure the greatest weight is the judgment given by the public, even if they don't have academic and scientific titles. The public is always right, and apparently they don't want to admit it in LDS today. For them experts are only those who are either of their kind or are their sympathizers, detected or hidden. Everyone else doesn't have that. Since I'm running out of time, all I'm gonna do is repeat the RTV law. The law has checked our people at the referendum, assessed that it is good and I share this opinion, and it is a shame to discuss these matters. And now only to the Minister. All congratulations on his work so far, not only do I personally say it, but I can tell you that from the environment where I come from, you have received only praise from many people in the field of culture. Keep it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Marinic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister with Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. You know, it is difficult after 14 hours, as far as this is concerned when it comes to interpreting against the Minister of Culture, to say a few more new facts that would indicate the decision of the individual Member in order to decide otherwise than he had already decided at the outset. However, I am sure that in these 14 hours we have spoken of a number of things that the Slovenian public could monitor through public television. I am also convinced that they have created their own view and that the electorates and voters will be those who will assess our efforts and our constructive work in the National Assembly, where they sent us with their votes. However, I would like to highlight one constitutional category, namely Article 73 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the protection of natural and cultural heritage. Everyone is obliged under the law to protect natural sights and rarity and cultural monuments. Has not much of this been highlighted, proven, reasoned, and I also bring this argument from the Slovenian country, both in the east and in the west, through the legislation that we have discussed and adopted here in this National Assembly. In the area of cultural heritage, something happened in the eastern part of Slovenia that could not have happened in the past 12 years, when such an important cultural monument as the Borl Castle failed. During the two years of the ministry, this ministry under the leadership of Minister Vasko Simoniti made sure that things moved from a dead spot. The castle of Borl was in decline, unfortunately still falling today, but things have been brought so far as to see a bright future for the arrangement of this cultural monument. On the other hand, when we discussed such an important second cultural monument as Kobilna Lipica and everything related to Kobilna Lipica. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Those who spoke about Kobilana Lipica, why you did not point out the nationals living there and who welcome the decision of this ministry to finally try to regulate this cultural monument at the state level once. Many positive moves that have a legal basis have been made, and this town goes on to congratulate this minister for his efforts, to find experts both within the Ministry and the general public, to approach this and to put Kobilina Lipica on the path of a bright future today. Only the cobial is too small. If we don't expand the tourist offer - and what's better is there than a golf course. The golf course, for which a building permit had already been issued 20 years ago, began construction work, but stopped. There was a new leadership that wasn't going any further, and things stopped, I'm afraid. Today everything points out better, and after all, because I had the first opportunity to participate in the National Assembly on Interpellation, I must express great support for the current Minister, Dr Vask Simoniti, and I want him to work for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u95	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the interpretation on which we will vote. I'm asking, is five, 10 minutes enough for us to wait for the MPs to come back? You have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 73, I propose or require that a half-hour break be imposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u97	Mr Rob, this request will be taken into account after explanations of vote. Do you think we should go to the vote - of course first the explanation of vote, then the procedural proposal and so on - immediately or in five, ten minutes? All right, then we're not breaking up. So, we are going to vote on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the interpretation tabled, gives an untrustworthy statement to the Minister for Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group; as I see, the hands have risen. The application for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members shall be pending. Mrs. Shirca, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u98	We will support the discharge of Minister for Culture, Mr Vask Simoniti, because we do not want him to remain Minister for Culture anymore in the parliamentary group for the reasons stated not only in the interpretation but also in the long discussion. Before the Minister read the interpretation, he had already talked about its immateriality and later rejected all indications. The impressions of interpolation were not rejected by argument. They were rejected with lies, with lies that had been used since the confirmation of the RTV Slovenia Act. At the time when it was promised that there would be a better programme, cheaper television and better television, more democratic television and more relaxed television. And that there will be a television where no more instruction will be given. But today, only the instructions on television are present. And these instructions go so far as to go in a direction where it is clearly stated that the President of the State should be laughed at, that he must not report on Mr. Prime Minister's companion; that he must not be filmed, even filming stars on the banner at the partisan celebrations; that there is a list of people who cannot come to the studio, and a list of people who can come to the RTV Slovenia studio; that there are instructions on who can face someone and who cannot face them; and that there are about 300 people who are outside the door in the sense "if you don't like them, go, or be decent". That a prominent journalist is currently withdrawn from her programs and creating content that she has sometimes done well. That a letter had been withdrawn from the Middle East because it did not report Iraq correctly. Like Mr Grah, he did not properly report from abroad. There are lists, and there is no such release. Otherwise, Minister of Culture, you have not rejected the key points of how you can do it with state money, with taxpayers' money without applying calls, why you are politically recruiting, why you sanction people who want a culture good and throw it on the road and why you do not work for the welfare of culture. That's why we wanted to discuss your poor cultural and political orientations.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. In the SDS Group of Members, we firmly believe that the Minister has responded appropriately to all the particulars in the interpretation. According to our assessment, something else has unfolded that the whole interpretation is based on the untruths which the proponents have already extended themselves, and in fact they have been embroiled by themselves all along. As a minister's quality, we see his work, his organisational and other ability to perform his work, and the function he holds, above all, we see the quality of his ability to provide more money for culture than he has ever been available in the past period! Moreover, in the coming two budgets, an increase in cultural resources is envisaged to such an extent that it is significantly greater than the growth of the budget in the next two years. This is the greatest possible recognition that one minister can prove to the public in his own work. Therefore, not only will we vote against the discharge of the Minister in the vote, but we take this opportunity to give the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti personally, as well as to the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša and the entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia recognition of our work so far and to wish us great happiness in leading the European Union, because the debate has made it very clear that it is also in the background to fear that this Government will successfully lead the entire European Union and thus establish Slovenia in the world and at the same time take advantage of the opportunity to present the entire Slovenian culture to the entire European and world public. In doing so, we provide her with all our support. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u101	Thank you. It's out of interest. I'm breaking up the session. We'll pick her up at 2:20.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u102	Dear Members and honourable Members! We continue the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly. Does the motioner want to give an explanation? Here you go, Mr. Rope.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I have a procedural proposal, Mr. President of the National Assembly. There's probably been a misunderstanding. You probably didn't get a good look, or someone's lost focus. There is no doubt that some Members, specifically Mr Gantar, raised their hand and wished to explain their vote in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure. I don't see any reason and I don't think you'd want to make it possible. Therefore, my procedural proposal asks you not least to allow a normal, democratic debate in the National Assembly, that you, as President of the National Assembly, also allow Members and Members to explain their voices individually. We have been discussing for more than 10 hours, 14 hours, and I see no reason why we should not now at the end, after we have said a lot, Members and Members have had the opportunity to say what they think and what the reasons for the final vote regarding the resolution or non-resolving of the current Minister of Culture are. So, I appeal to you to allow the Rules of Procedure to be applied and there is no breach in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u104	You heard the procedural proposal. I was really looking around the hall, and I didn't see any hands, no sign of interest. You have heard the procedural proposal and I am putting it to the vote. This is said to be a procedural proposal to return to the stage of explaining the votes of individual Members and only then to the vote. We are voting on a procedural proposal. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 33. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 33.]] So we return to the stage of explanation of the vote of individual Members and Members. But I don't think it's necessary to interrupt the half-life session again, so we can get to the vote. I'm opening applications for explanations of vote. Mr. Gantar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you also to colleagues who have made this process run as it should. Of course, Mr. Secretary, I will vote in favour of your release. I have already said some reasons, but I would like to point out one of them right now, because I didn't have it before - that's the Law on Cobile Lipica. In my firm belief, this law is based on the wrong professional concept and the wrong policy. It's a bad marriage, and you're making a big deal out of it. At the same time, it links a co-balancing institution as a non-profit institution with commercial, market activities to support this non-profit institution. So far, all of these solutions, including those that have proved to be bad, have proved whether this commercial activity is not strong enough to really support it, or whether this secondary activity, commercially, can only prejudge the original, primary activity. In fact, we're going to start to wonder why there's still a kobile on the golf course. It must also be said that this law has been retained in the Constitutional Court, in contravention of the tradition and legislation in the area of land regulation, ignoring the owners of neighbouring land under the conditions of regulation and therefore I think that such a law and your responsibility for it is unacceptable. The placement of golf is pointless and is a wrong professional and political decision and at the same time, Mr. Minister, I would tell you that today I have learned that a Slovenian citizen, Slovenian, has applied for asylum in neighbouring Croatia. And these are the conditions that are now in Slovenia, and you co-create and co-create this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you. I would ask you, however, to understand that the Minister cannot, no longer has the right to respond to any new claims or new findings. So much for your knowledge. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u107	Respectable, esteemed. Thank you so much for letting me talk. I will support the proposal. There are several reasons for this. Everyone was listed within the debate, but I would still point out that the main reason why this legislation, which he introduced into the parliamentary procedure and which was later adopted, opened up a place of fear is that what you are in a democratic, free society we do not want. That's the main thing. Whether this has been the case in the field of human resources, in the field of the media, in the field of the public service, I am not interested. On the other hand, one of the reasons is that you so panickingly attacked colleague Majdo Shirca, who was the proponent who first signed these interpretations, and also tried to discredit her all sorts of matters. After all, Majda Shirca is only an expert in the media and has not only professional recognition for this, I would not talk about them because they mean nothing to you, but would talk about the public - seven Victors, public audiences and viewers, public broadcasts, public journalist, public RTV. This is what certainly counts. Another thing that bothers me. You have continued to urge the intervention to be made due to local elections and to the European Union's leadership. Let's make up your mind. We've filed for interpellation because Minister Simoniti has proved himself to be a bad minister. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u108	Thank you. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr Minister, I am not among those who will confess to you, as you have already received from your party, because your attitude towards recognized awards is well known. And because you haven't convinced me that you deserve it either. It is from the title mentioned earlier that our Presidency to the European Union, which will have intercultural dialogue among the priority themes, and from this title, that everyone places in your hands a major role to play in this context in view of the state in which we are. I blame all of us so that no one thinks that anyone is clean in what we see and monitor, all political parties have some problems. I don't think you can be part of this noble task as a minister of culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u110	Thank you. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u111	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, I assure you that in no case can I support these interpretations, because this interpretation was made entirely unjustifiably and also by the very explanations which they have tried to present here in two days mainly from the LDS, were deceptions, falsehoods, lies and instigations, and they do not benefit the National Assembly or the Ministry of Culture, but at the very least by themselves. As I have already mentioned, we can offer you all congratulations on the good work done so far in your department, and we want you to continue this work as you have done so far. And in the event that we reaffirm your mandate today, I would also be happy to confirm it. I won't support this interpolation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u112	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I'll support the interpolation. I am not surprised that colleagues and colleagues from the coalition will oppose the interpretation and support the minister, because in many areas he has opened up a space that shows the image of the government and of these ruling coalitions in a different way than the picture actually in work and life. I am sure that the questions raised to the Minister were clear and unequivocal, and he initially found that he did not understand them because he did not want to understand them. The answers were very, very much after the time, very little by content. And I say to myself that all the essential arguments that we wanted to show that there are a number of shortcomings in the work of the Minister of Culture in cultural policy and in public media, which would be good to address; that we have managed not only to point out this in the debates in the National Assembly, but also to prove a great deal. Therefore, I am pleased that this debate has been held, and I will vote peacefully for the Minister of Culture, who is not willing to admit at one point that he may not be working so perfectly that he deserves only the praises and praises he receives, even the applause, I will vote in favour of his resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you. Mr. Milan Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u115	Your Honor! Mr. Minister, of course I will vote for discharge or interpolation. I must say, after yesterday's debate, I was even a little doubtful whether I was too harsh in my judgment. But I listened to you very carefully today, and I must say that my doubts are gone. So, I was right, and with my eyewitnesses or my judgment, I still insist. Perhaps you would be correct in your position if you had at least heard from you a confession that one of the observations is on the spot, that some situation in an institution, organisation or general culture is not what it should be, and that you would admit it. No, you stubbornly insisted that you were the only one who was right. Well, maybe Mr Grims has another story besides you, but that's another story. Well, my vote for interpolation is specifically tied to what you did, what's unacceptable - you broke the law. You broke the Law on Investment in Culture. So you violated the law when you did not include the Maribor puppet theatre in the investment plan this year, next year and in 2008, but you did use arguments that do not have any professional power, arguments that do not have a legal basis. And the Mariborians will never forgive you for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. To this day, I have actually been in doubt, and I intend to vote against this decision, but, Mr Minister, I will vote in favour of the decision to dismiss you. In fact, the Media Act does not actually apply. It says here about balanced reporting. How can we say that balanced reporting is when public Radiotelevision of Slovenia prefers data and reports on gypsies, while no one asks me about the other half of the truth. It's not like that. The law says it's the right to correction. This right to correction is disregarded despite the fact that, for example, your newspaper Delo first published false information when we requested correction, there was none of it. There wasn't even an answer, but a simple "pismewuhov" hearing of all this. Why it came to this, I'm not going down. But I expected you to settle matters, even in accordance with your law. But it didn't happen. It's getting worse. The situation is becoming similar to that of the former communist regime, but at the beginning of this regime, when censorship was very widespread. And I have a strong feeling or I could say, I'm sure these censorships are actually more from day to day. That's why I'm going to support the resolution decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'm going to support a decision that tells us that the Minister of Culture is to be resolved. I have solid evidence that he broke the laws. He violated Article 26 of the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian, which obliges the Ministry of Culture to coordinate policy and monitor the implementation of the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian. Although I have repeatedly asked him whether he intends, as the responsible Minister for Language Policy and Language Planning, to apply for amendments to the Public Use Act of Slovenia, which is to be amended by the National Research and Development Programme for 2006 and 2010 by opening some options, he has not replied, nor has there been any proposal to amend the law. The report on the implementation of the law is such that, in the first part, it only goes into trouble with the law and in the second part, it sues for the names of economic operators. The serious issues of language policy and language planning, not this ministry or any other ministry that should be involved, are not the principle of not talking about the still uninterpreted national language policy and language planning programme. Finally, it was obvious that, or Mr. Minister, he was refusing to consult the professional public. But here in the National Assembly, someone was delighted to say that he was the author of the RTV Act and that 90% of the law remained unchanged. If that doesn't talk about ne dialogue, I don't know what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u120	Thank you. There's another interest in personal identification. Here you go. Check-in is on. Mr. Pukšič, you have the floor. Mrs. Potrata, please turn it off or something. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, colleague and colleague! Mr. Minister, President, Madam Secretary of State! I am sure that the Minister, who was first on this page on the so-called sad bench, presented his work after two years of working properly and very well at this interpretation. In fact, he may even have been happy to have had this interpretation, since he was able to talk about his work in this way. But I'm also sure that when the opposition wrote this interpretation, she didn't believe it herself, so she wrote it flat and over her thumb. Several times, however, it was explained how 7% is more than nothing in RTV's subscription, although some did not understand the explanation several times. I got quite a lot of text messages as well as phone calls, and citizens and citizens are saying that what we were talking about yesterday is that RTV is cheaper and that they know and that they are aware of it. So that's one of the good things. Yesterday, I said that this time, of course, there will be no vote of my own to dismiss the Minister. Some people asked me what about next time. I said, no, not next time. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u122	Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u123	Your Honors are here! As we said in the presentation of the Group's position, Members and, of course, the Member of the Slovenian National Party will support the interpretation. It maintains the first point of the proposal that the gap between the promised and the actual situation is too large to be overlooked. As in our opinion, too much credibility has been lost by the minister, who has actually talked about some things and has put them in a completely different direction. If I put out a subscription, although it is not an essential cost of full interpretation, the fact is that the Minister's response was misleading at least after my assessment. It didn't beat up, it didn't beat up. Compared to the Institute, let's say that, as you are referring to the annual inflation rates yourself, I can only find that, of course, inflation is good for you in individual cases, and in other cases, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, particularly in monetary terms, argues that inflation within our country is not or is completely under control. But I would like to point out from this place in particular what seems to me to have been done negatively under your leadership. So, not only the daily reporting of television, the public institute of RTV, but not least the relationship, the attitude towards the Slovenian National Party, last but not least the political race against the leader of the parliamentary group Zmega Jelinčič in recent relations, when he highlighted the position that reflects the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. But at the same time allow, regardless of the result or the spread of today's interpolation, do not ignore the established principle of both regional studies, both in Maribor and in Cyprus. As you probably know, and some claim that this is your political move to destroy both studios. At the same time, allow another appeal at the end [[...]] [[Warning signal.]] you are no longer neglecting the city of Maribor in the form of the past part of puppet theatre. [[..]] This is simply not correct and is not in line with the Government and not with Slovenian politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u124	Thank you. Mr. Rugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I think that this proposal for interpolation is a purely political deceiving, but it's a waste of time on the inside. Instead of doing something smarter, we're here the next day and we're trying a bunch of untruths and we're dealing with what's true, what's not true. For me, the minister is one of the better ministers of this government, so I have no idea how to support such an interpretation, which is directed solely for certain political purposes and has nothing to do with reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u126	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The two-day debate has shown that the proposal for interpolation on broken legs, that the opposition has not offered virtually any evidence of any conduct of the Minister of Culture contrary to positive legislation, with democracy in Slovenia. The only thing they've proven is this, and in fact, it's obvious that the minister has maintained a cultural relationship, that he's cultured and has a sense of culture and that he's cultural. He did not go down to the level of prosthetic perceptions that came from the opposition. I am pleased that we have such a minister and that, at the same time in these two years, he has stood on the sidelines of democracy in the drafting of media legislation. With new legislation, the opposition has much more space in the media than it had at the time of the LDS rule. And if the opposition has more space in the media, in the newspapers, it is a guarantee of democracy, despite individual weaknesses or individual deviations and individual servitude within the houses. I am firmly convinced that with his cultural relationship, with his knowledge of the culture that was actually placed in the cradle, he was born in the family of a famous composer, that he also maintained this privilege in the ministerial position and that he really runs this department at the level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u128	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Members! Last year, one in six Slovenian voters supported the RTV law because of the lie of the ruling coalition. On the anniversary of this, it was only right that we should have submitted an intervention against the Minister of Media. Yesterday he said he was satisfied with his work. When I received the evening work, I understood the expression of his satisfaction. First page, Vasko Simoniti rejected all the opposition's findings. Mr. Secretary, I'm afraid you haven't turned down these readings. There is a fact that you are the first cultural minister to have a negative opinion by the Court of Auditors that you are the first cultural minister to afford just to pass the law and give it to someone else. And that is why, Mr. Secretary, I will support the interpellation against you. I estimate that not only because of the RTV Act, but not only because the Constitutional Court had to prevent the improper functioning of the executive branch in Lipica, but mainly because of what you do in the media, I think you should leave. I'll support the interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u130	Thank you. Mrs. Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I'm not going to support the interpellation against the Minister for Culture, Dr. Vask Simoniti. I believe that in these two years, Minister Simoniti has done very well and very well or done his job as Minister of Culture. This was finally acknowledged by the people who voted in favour of the new RTV Slovenia Act, which was also, as far as we could see and read in the interpretation, one of the main, if not the main, of this interpretation. And I wonder, as I did yesterday in my debate why the LDS clearly expressed people's will does not recognise and ignore it. It's more than obvious, because it's the only way I can imagine this interpolation or the fact that you've decided to do this interpolation as the first interpolation. In these 15 hours of discussion, as far as we have talked about the Minister of Culture, I must say that there were not many arguments on the part of the opposition or the proponents to talk about the need for the Minister of Culture to be resolved and that the Minister, in his replies, knew more than well and argumentably all the objections. Throughout the discussion, however, there was a great deal of concern for the applicants, because it was mainly a personal attack on the minister and, in particular, because there is no longer a sense that anyone else could lead the culture and also deal with the media. I certainly won't support this interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u132	Thank you. Any other interests? Please report to anyone who wishes to explain your vote. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The only thing that bothers me about this whole debate is that it's all black and white all the time. If the Minister had done well, he would not have had a negative opinion from the Court of Auditors. It is said that some matter was bad and justified in criticism. Also, the RTV program, a bad marriage, has been retained or abolished in one article, the Lipica Act has been retained and so on. There have been certain things that are critical, and in this sense I assess such a debate as necessary and I hope that it will produce results for the future. And because I don't want the black and white to see this picture, I won't support the interpretation, but I won't vote against it, because I think it's somewhere in the middle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u134	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! During these 14 hours, many words were spoken for democracy and freedom. And I personally simply do not agree with the conduct, opinion and logic of the notion of freedom by which it has been expressed or presented by the representatives of the executive branch, a freedom that is for them only a kind of blanket that is given to people when they complain and then comfort themselves when they are silenced, that blanket withdraws without them knowing when. And that's the real story about the RTV Act and that's the real story about the Lipica Act. That is why, of course, I will support this interpretation because I do not expect such behaviour and logic from the Minister of Culture. It could be from anyone but the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u136	Thank you. Since there is no longer interest, we turn to the vote on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the interpretation submitted, gives an untrust to the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasku Simoniti. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, non-trust will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more Members. If an untrustworthy person is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 41. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing Dr. Vask Simoniti's mistrust wasn't voted out. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the ratification of the Agreement on the Development Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of the Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSURE ON THE RATIFICATION OF THE PROTOCOL BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF AUSTRIA ON AMENDMENTS TO THE CONVENTION ON THE AVOIDATION OF DOUBLE TAXATION RELATING TO REVENUE AND REVENUE TaxES SIGNED IN LOVE 1. OCTOBER 1997 The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 65 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 28. Period of the day - This is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 66 of whom voted against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 29. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS TO THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY ON THE ELIMINATION OF DOUBLE TAXATION RELATING TO REVENUE AND REVENUE TaxES. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body, which prepared a complementary proposal for a law. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so we are moving on to the third reading, which is to decide on the proposal for a law. In doing so, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that due to the amendments adopted on the home work body, the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 69 of them voted against. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. PERFORMANCE OF THE OFFICIAL VERIFICATION OF THE TEXT OF THE LAW. Officially consolidated text was prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially consolidated texts of the Road Safety Act." We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 67 votes against 4. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the officially purified text of that law has been confirmed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 31. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. In the context of this item, the assembly will consider nine proposals of the Judicial Council for the election to a judicial function, a proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of a member of the State Election Commission and a proposal for a decision on the discharge of the President and the appointment of the President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for agriculture, forestry and nutrition. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. First, proposals for decisions on election to judicial office. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly 9 proposals for the election of candidates and candidates for judicial office at the courts of eight regional judges and one inter-regional judge at the District Court in Koper and Ljubljana. Does the representative of the Council of Justice want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The proposals were addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no speakers for the debate, so I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Tatjana Marušič Kodele to the Court of Justice of the District Court in Koper. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 4. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Alenka Gerk Ljubič to the judicial seat of the District Court in Koper. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, 63 votes against 2. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Renate Cerar to the judicial seat of the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 2. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Boris Gabriel Hroat as judge of the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 2. (The vote was 63.)(against 2.) I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of the Magi. Tadeje Jelovšek Kvatrnik to the judge’s seat at the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Genovef Kristanič Dolčar to the judicial seat of the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Katarina Kumer to the judicial seat of the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Maja Rozman to the Court of Justice of the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I put to the vote the motion for decisions on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Kristina Štern Pogačar to the judicial seat of the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of a member of the National Election Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Dr Bojan Bulgarian's duties as a member and the appointment of Mr Miroslav Pretnar as a member of the National Election Commission. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We move on a proposal for a decision on the discharge of the President and the appointment of the President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the New Slovenia parliamentary group for consideration. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Mr Alojs Sok as President and the appointment of Mrs Marjetka Uhan as Chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 2. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 13th item of the agenda - on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act. At its meeting on 28 November 2006, the Government pointed out that, following a third hearing due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body and the meeting of the National Assembly, the law was inconsistent. The government has prepared the harmonisation amendments you received on the bench. He wants to speak to the government about the harmonisation amendments? [[No, no, ……]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 4. We're voting. There are 63 Members present and 57 voted against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 8. We're voting. 61 Members and Members were present, 55 of them voted against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 10. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Desire to explain the voice in his own name. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u137	Mr President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. While I regret that the Ministry of Transport has decided not to explain a few harmonisation amendments, the key question is: How will it be now, instead of a Directorate, instead of an amendment to the 10th Article, which is the Minister who will decide on the granting of public authority in the field of the Road Transport Act? I suppose the Minister will become a signatory to hundreds of documents, and I regret that the Government has not taken this opportunity. I will vote against the amendment on my own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u138	Thank you. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, for whom 49 votes against 8. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 11. We're voting. 62 Members and Members were present, 53 of them voted against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 12. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 2. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 37. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 38. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 61 Members and Members present, 48 votes against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 39. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 41. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 61 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 2. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 87. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 2. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 136. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 137. Mr. Squeakle has come forward for an explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u139	Ambassadors and Members, Mr President. On 28.11.2006, a proposal for the coordination amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the Proposal for a Law on Road Transport took place in the National Assembly. My assessment is, otherwise, I should have given it to the Transport Committee, that these are, of course, not substantively harmonisation amendments. At the very least, it would be necessary for the Transport Committee to meet on this subject and, of course, to discuss it. I've been waiting for this last amendment myself, or there will be a desire on the government's side, a willingness to say a word to these amendments. I therefore, of course, assess that the amendments we have adopted remind us of some harmonisation amendments to a health law that has simply tried to give the minister additional power to determine what will happen and what will not be the right. And I believe that in this way the functioning of the National Assembly, where no such important set of so-called harmonisation amendments has been met by the Transport Committee, of course, is not exactly an honour to the National Assembly, so I will vote against this amendment and also against the law in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-30-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr. Squeakl, it is a pity that you did not open the question at the time of the debate and that the Minister could answer your concerns. I'm afraid he can't now. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 48 votes against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and thank you for your participation.
