ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 15th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: only Bevk from 4 p.m. on, mag. Branko Grims, Aleš Gulič until 3 p.m., Kristijan Janc, Jožef Jerovšek, Breda Pecan, Villa Rezman, Dr. Mitja Slavinec, Aloz Sok, Flower Zalokar Orazem and Milenko Ziherl. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Slovenia Act, urgent procedure. The hearing will take place on an urgent basis. I inform you that the time scheduled for this debate is 2 hours and 5 minutes. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was also regarded by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. Please, the chairman of the committee, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u2	Vice-President, I think this is a law that is so important that it should wait or call - or interrupt - government representatives. The Bank of Slovenia Act is not an ordinary law, so I suggest that the government, if it is already late, has an introductory word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u3	Comrade Squeakl, I'd like to take your procedural proposal into account, but in the meantime, the Secretary of State has joined us. The Secretary of State, I'm going to ask you to give the government's position on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Banka Slovenije Act. Please step forward for the central booth and report within the agreed time limit.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u4	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Slovenia intends to take over the euro from 1 January 2007 and therefore it is necessary to meet all the criteria laid down in the Treaty establishing the European Community, including the compliance of national laws, in particular those governing the central bank. The past convergence reports of the European Commission and the European Central Bank indicate certain inconsistencies in the Bank of Slovenia law with the provisions of the Treaties establishing the European Community. In the convergence reports listed above, Slovenia must proceed to issue the following convergence reports, which are already in preparation, as the European Union will assess whether Slovenia meets the conditions for taking over the euro on their basis. The main purpose of the law or bill is to harmonise the Bank of Slovenia law with the provisions of the Treaty and the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, in particular with regard to the legal integration of the Bank of Slovenia into the euro system. The draft law amends, inter alia, provisions relating to the independence of the Bank of Slovenia, economic policy objectives, monetary policy instruments, managed foreign reserves, issuance and supply of banknotes and coins and international cooperation, also introduces a proper record of the word euro. In addition, the proposal for a law by including bank credits in a single list of eligible collateral for euro system credit operations also introduces a register of financial assets. Finally, the proposal for a law also imposes sanctions for infringements of the European Council regulation. On the basis of the convergence reports, the draft law also eliminates inconsistencies regarding the independence of the Bank of Slovenia and completely and legally integrates the Bank of Slovenia into the European System of Central Banks. Article 4 of the Act is hereby amended to specify the relationship between the Bank of Slovenia’s primary objective of price stability and the subordination of the two secondary objectives of supporting economic policy and ensuring the stability of the financial system. On the basis of the requirement for enhanced financial independence in the management of confidential and foreign reserve assets of the State, Article 27 of the Act governing transactions carried out by the Bank of Slovenia with the Republic of Slovenia has been amended. The law is also supplemented in the work which lays down the conditions for the early termination of the term of office of a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia because they were not fully in line with the provisions of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank. On the basis of convergence reports, the law also had to clearly distinguish between the powers transferred by the Bank of Slovenia at the time of the introduction of the euro to the European Central Bank and the powers vested in the Bank of Slovenia. In addition to these amendments, honourable Members and Members, the draft law also includes certain amendments necessary for internal, operational reasons or will facilitate the operation of the Bank of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u5	Thank you very much. As previously said, the draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. That's a nice hello to you all. By entering the European Union on 1 May 2004, Slovenia has committed itself to taking over the euro, a monetary unit used by 12 current members of the European Union. Before the introduction of the euro, a Member State must prove that it meets the criteria set out in Article 121 of the Treaty establishing the European euro-taking community, the so-called Maastricht criteria. To repeat them again, because they are very important. Inflation must not exceed the average inflation rates of three Member States, the Member States of the European Union, with a minimum inflation rate of more than 1.5%, the long-term interest rates must not exceed the average long-term interest rates of three Member States with a minimum inflation rate of more than 2 percentage points, the public financial deficit must not exceed 3% of the gross domestic product, the public debt must not exceed 60% of the gross domestic product and maintain the stability of the foreign exchange rate under the European exchange rate mechanism RMN2 for at least two years. Of course, the first paragraph of Article 121 of the European Treaty also lists the criteria for adopting the euro as well as the compliance of national laws, including those governing the central banks, in Articles 108 and 109 and the Statute of the European System of Central Banks. In the October 2004 convergence reports, the Commission of the European Union and the European Central Bank shall determine certain non-compliances with the Bank of Slovenia Act under this Treaty. Since the non-compliance of national legislation using national banks with a reservation to the introduction of the euro is necessary before the next convergence report, it is necessary to align the law with the findings of past convergence reports. These reports set out the requirements for a more accurate definition of the relationship between the primary objective under the theme of the European banks, price stability with a more pronounced hierarchical subordination of the two secondary objectives, support for economic policy and care for the stability of the financial system, enhanced financial and functional independence of the central bank in the exercise of foreign exchange reserves of the State and the requirement for a consistent adoption of the text of the Statute of the European Bank and of the European Central Bank on the grounds for early termination of the mandate of the members of the Authority, decision of the national central bank, consistent compliance with the statute and introduction of the concept of serious infringements shall be made possible in the Court of Justice of the European Communities to establish a standard of serious infringements. Slovenia therefore had to decide and amend, supplement the Banka Slovenije Act and thus the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Finance and Monetary Policy at its 18th emergency meeting, 23.3.2006, also considered this proposal. The representative and representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee with the Ministry of Finance, the representative of the Bank of Slovenia and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The Rule of Law Service has drawn up its opinions and observations on certain articles of the proposed law, which have also been endorsed to some extent by amendments to the Committee. Thus, at its meeting, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to individual articles of the law and, pursuant to Article 130, paragraph 1, the amendments adopted at the meeting prepared a draft law which is an integral part of this report and we propose that the draft law amending and supplementing the Banka Slovenije Act also be approved and adopted by this State Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u7	Thank you, Comrade Starman, for presenting the committee report. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups. My colleague, Franz Horvat, will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u8	President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats supports the adoption of the bill, which is a logical consequence of Slovenia's entry into the European Union and the decision to take over the euro as the currency of the Republic of Slovenia. The amendment of the Slovenian Act aligns the functioning of the Bank of Slovenia with the system of European central banks and, in addition to macroeconomic criteria, meets the important formal legal condition for obtaining positive opinions in the convergence reports of the European Commission and the European Central Bank, which we expect on 16 May. It is prepared after our assessment in accordance with the legal order of the European Union and in accordance with the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank. In doing so, we are aware that the role of the Bank of Slovenia is changing significantly. The provisions on monetary policy and foreign exchange rate policy shall cease to apply, as these powers shall be assumed by the European Central Bank. However, this does not mean, as many think, that the state of Slovenia and the Bank of Slovenia are losing influence in these areas. The Bank of Slovenia will be an equal component of the European System of Central Banks, the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia will be a full member of the Council of the European Central Bank and will actively, including with the right to vote, participate in all important decisions, including in the field of delegated powers. The Bank of Slovenia will not directly or indirectly influence the management of macroeconomic policies. The Central Bank retains a number of important tasks so far, but we also get new ones. It seems important to us here, in particular, to control banks, which will be possible and even more necessary under new conditions, which will be useful for reducing the risks, quality and safety of banking operations, for competitiveness and transparency, and for developing the financial system in general, and not least for consumer protection. The Bank of Slovenia will be able to function as a public sector banker even more effectively. The new law also brings Banka Slovenije some new tasks and strengthens the past. We think it is important that the Bank of Slovenia participates with the central banks of other countries and international organisations. The role of the Bank of Slovenia in payment systems, financial operations and asset management will be important. The Bank of Slovenia has quality professional staff and rich experience in the economic and financial-analytical field, and this will enable the strengthening of very useful information analysis and statistical activities. It is not important not only to maintain it, but even to increase the independence of the central bank in relation to the European Central Bank and to report to the national assembly twice a year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u9	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Comrade Cyril Testen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members. In the New Slovenia Group of Members - The Christian People's Party we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Bank of Slovenia Act. The bill is part of the euro takeover activity, which is always given priority in the parliamentary group. The euro is becoming the Slovenian national currency in several stages. The first stage is Slovenia's entry into the European Union and soon thereafter into the system of foreign exchange rate mechanisms RM2. The second stage began with an informative double price labelling and ends 6 months after the introduction of the euro in Slovenia. The last phase is the introduction of the euro, which will be adopted when it is decided that Slovenia will meet the conditions for the introduction of the euro. This is expected to happen in June 2006. The third step will be the actual introduction of the euro, which is foreseen on 1 January 2007, when the euro becomes our money. In order for a Member State of the European Union to introduce the euro, the convergence criteria laid down in Article 121 of the Treaty establishing the European Community and in the Protocol to the Convergence Criteria of Article 121 of this Treaty must be met. So far, our discussions have been mainly about economics, and legal convergence criteria need to be met, ensuring that national legislation is consistent with the provisions of the Treaty establishing the European Community. In early March 2006, Slovenia requested the European Commission and the European Central Bank to prepare a separate report on the fulfilment of the criteria for taking over the euro. This is the only thing that should be prepared as the European Commission has already requested the Ministry of Finance to submit a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Banka Slovenije Act. The past convergence reports show certain inconsistencies in the Banka Slovenije Act with the provisions of the Treaty establishing the European Community. On this basis, the draft law eliminates some inconsistencies regarding the independence of the Bank of Slovenia and the final and complete legal integration of the Bank of Slovenia into the European System of Central Banks. During the period from accession to the European Union to the introduction of the euro, the Bank of Slovenia is still responsible for the management of monetary policy, with the introduction of the euro in Slovenia, the power to manage monetary policy will be transferred to the euro system, which will then become part of the Bank of Slovenia. The bill also specifies the relationship between the economic policy objectives, amends the provisions relating to the monetary policy instrument for the management of foreign reserves, introduces a correct record of the word euro, and the Bank's Council will be composed of five members from now on. A condition for the early termination of the Council member's term of office relating to the inclusion of bank credits in a single list of eligible collaterals is also agreed upon for euro system credit operations. At the international conference on the takeover of the euro in Slovenia on 17 March 2006, the Minister of Finance, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, stressed that the Slovenian economy has proven to be extremely credible in the past because it has been able to meet the so-called convergence criteria through the coordinated functioning of economic policies. He added: "Today we can claim that Slovenia has achieved price stability, we have sound public finances, low interest rates and a stable exchange rate, which are all the criteria for introducing a common European currency." In the Parliamentary Group of the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we will support the draft law on amendments and additions to the Bank of Slovenia Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u11	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be presented by Mr Josip Bajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Government Representative, colleague and colleague! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Banka Slovenije Act is a result of the fact that Slovenia has pledged to take over the euro from 1.1.2007. The proposed amendments to the Bank of Slovenia Act thus relate in particular to the harmonisation of the law with the provisions of the Treaty establishing the European Union. In addition to the Maastricht criteria, Slovenia must align its legislation to the European and also to the Statute of the European Central Bank, as well as to the European Central Bank, to take over the euro. With regard to the proposed law, in our view, it adequately defines overall stability as the primary objective of the European System of Central Banks. In addition, the proposal lays the groundwork for an even greater financial and functional independence of the central bank in the management of the country's foreign reserves and for greater personal independence of the members of the central bank's decision-making bodies. It also regulates the register of assets at Banka Slovenije. For Slovenia, taking over the euro is certainly of strategic importance. Slovenia is making efforts and has so far successfully met the conditions for taking over the euro from 1.1.2007. We expect that this will be the case in the future and that we will come to the euro currency in accordance with our expectations and wishes. That is why we also support the proposed law, because otherwise, because of the lack of harmonisation of the euro's legislation, we would not be able to take over within the deadline. The Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will therefore support the bill. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, however, is expected to take all other necessary measures to ensure that the euro is taken in accordance with the established plans and common objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group of Members will be presented by Mr Saša Pece. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u14	Your Honors are here! A number of Member States of the European Union have decided not to take over the single monetary system. They considered that their domestic currency was better for them personally, that it reflected their tradition for those countries and, above all, that they could operate more easily individually with their national currency. In my personal opinion, if Slovenia has decided to join the European Union, which was confirmed at the referendum, it is also right to take over or join the monetary union. But the question is, at what cost. Whenever we adopt an act in the last year, which has, say, the nature of public finances, this act is fully subject, i.e. to that other objective, not to the content of the law, but to the sole fulfilment of the conditions for taking over the euro. What I'm trying to say is that it's in this area or that's why they're suffering from all the other areas. And I don't think they follow the words raised in the introduction by the proposer or on behalf of the proposer, the Secretary of State and some representatives of the parliamentary groups, since we have stable public finances in Slovenia. They are stable only to the extent that we show numbers when we boast abroad, when we show a relationship or pass through that period that we are capable of taking over the euro. But in my opinion, this kind of unrealistic presentation of data will be very expensive for a Slovenian citizen or citizen. Sooner or later we will come into a period of time, unfortunately we will come to a time when, due to this headless rush and only and only to conform to such criteria, which some call convergence criteria, of course our citizens will draw briefly in all other areas. We know that the debate on the stability of public finances, the orientation of all indicators of public finances in the pursuit of this objective, is already having negative consequences. We know in fact that the government in this title has decided to direct the personal consumption of every citizen, not by regulation, not by law, but by all the other macroeconomic institutions it has. How else can we imagine taxation of interest? The State assessed that it was not able to invest enough to try to influence citizens in such a way that they would reduce their surplus in banks, because it had taxed interest and that citizens and citizens would rather invest it somewhere else, and again the Government of the Republic of Slovenia dictates us with a guiding fiscal policy. The question is whether this is what our citizens want. I personally assess that I could take over the euro to bring positive things into the economies and to all other areas of life within our country. The question is whether we are willing to pay or accept the path that this government is offering us. Therefore, all areas in our lives, or all areas in the Republic of Slovenia, should be adapted exclusively to the pursuit of this goal. I think that in the last three months, Minister Bajuk has said that the only goal he is pursuing is the euro, that they are not other targets. So the objectives that would touch the actual citizen or citizen but that the only objective is to take over the euro. In doing so, I would like to say that it is a pity that, in the framework of the Bank Act, which has come so badly, I will quote the government representatives, as they wrote in the Rapporteur, that it is a matter of harmonising the law with the Treaty establishing the European Community and the status of the European System of Central Banks. I am sorry that there is no chapter in there which, at this stage, I think, has already mentioned one of my predecessors, has also protected, i.e. the final customer, possibly a citizen, a citizen, from an unjustified price rise. In my opinion, of course, this law in its content could also bear that chapter, which would express the concerns of the legislator and the executive branch of the authority and that this law would not be merely enforced [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] from the European Union. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the DeSUS Group. One moment please, Mr. Yelen. Here you go. Procedural question?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u16	Yes, Mr. President. In the meantime, when parliamentary groups represent a position, there is a dilemma as to whether there is an appropriate government representative in the Chamber. Rapporteur No 28 For he says that the government today should be represented by either Dr Andrej Bajuk, or Žiga Lavrič, State Secretary, I emphasise, in the Ministry of Finance, or Mrs Katja Bozič, v.d. Director-General of the Ministry of Finance. I guess we only have Mr. Katjo Christmas here. It is true, as I have just been informed, but I do not know whether all Members know this, whether we have received this from all Members, that, according to the announcement of Mr Predalič in the work of the National Assembly at the point of the proposal for a law amending the amendment of the Banka Slovenije Act, the urgent procedure should also be involved. Mr Andrej Shircelj, Secretary of State in the cabinet of the Prime Minister. I would like to point out that the Secretary of State is in the office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. The question is therefore raised, and I propose that, of course, Mr President, you interpret the relevant rules of procedure, whether the condition of Article 235 fourth paragraph is met, which states that, in the event of absence or detention, the Minister of State or the Chairman of the Authority shall be replaced by the Minister of State in the composition of the Ministry. The dilemma is that Mr Šircelj is the Secretary of State in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. This legal matter is the legal substance of the Ministry of Finance. We do not want to make problems in the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament in dealing with such an important law. We are surprised, of course, that neither Mr Bajuk nor Mr Lavrič, except the Prime Minister, have decided to take part in such an important law. The dilemma is merely whether, in view of this particular situation that we have in this Government, of course, Mr Šricel as State Secretary in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, it is one who, in accordance with paragraph 4 of Article 235, may replace the Minister of Finance, even though it is not the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Finance. I have a dilemma here. I am pleased, however, that the expert service of the National Assembly informed me that an appropriate notification had come to the National Assembly to participate [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Mr Šircelj, of course, also, but please, if this dilemma can be clarified and if this notice can be given to all Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u17	Comrade Squeakle, thank you for your procedural proposal or procedural debate, if I may say so. I have to say that I am even happy that, unlike yesterday, the government today did not have to wait 45 minutes, but it must not stay here. It is true, however, that in addition to the article mentioned by you, my colleague, I think it makes sense to take account of Article 66, which states that at the beginning of the examination of each item, the applicant or his representative may submit a supplementary explanation. I believe that in this case a supplementary explanation has been given that if the government has decided not to send a co-worker within the Ministry of Finance, but within the government, this is their decision. However, as long as the comments on the present report are made, I will take into account any proposals that may relate to the content. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to my colleague Ivan Yelen to present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Members of Parliament and Members, Secretary of State! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Bank of Slovenia Act. In the DeSUS Group, we find that a bill containing 45 articles implements the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank with regard to the legal integration of the Bank of Slovenia into the euro bank system. In doing so, we are aware that this coordination of ours with the European legal order is being carried out due to the euro's takeover, so that all the disagreements so far will be properly corrected. This determines the future status of the Bank of Slovenia with 1.1.2007 and the definition of its future powers and tasks to the European System of Central Banks. Thus, the independence of the Bank of Slovenia becomes dependent on the European system of central banks, both within the framework of economic policy, and changes to monetary policy instruments regarding the management of foreign reserves, the provision of banknotes and coins as well as international cooperation. In doing so, our behaviour changes the primary objective of price stability, economic policy and the stability of the financial system of the secondary objective, and secondary objectives become subordinate to the euro system. In addition, the proposal introduces a so-called register of assets which provides for the possibility of using such assets to secure the assets of the Bank of Slovenia and the European System of Central Banks for monetary policy. The proposed novelty is also the composition of the World Bank of Slovenia, which will be made up of five new members, the Governor and four vice-governors before 9, the Governor, 4 vice-governors and 4 members. And this reduction will take place gradually. These proposed changes stem mainly from requests from the convergence reports of the European Central Bank and the competent commission, which required the full integration of the Bank of Slovenia into the European System of Central Banks due to the introduction of the euro as our future new currency and position or dependence on the Bank of Slovenia. Sanctions for infringements of the provisions laid down in the Statute of the European Central Banks shall also be provided for accordingly. The European Central Bank will take care of both the rules and the protection of this complex system, the part of which also becomes a member of the Bank of Slovenia, or the European Court will be responsible for the infringements. In our DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposed amendment clearly defines and limits the competence of the Bank of Slovenia to the European System of Central Banks, as well as the powers left to the Bank of Slovenia by introducing and finalising the euro. Despite such a complete proposal in the parliamentary group, we believe that the terminological unification of the euro, the euro as a monetary unit, is needed in accordance with the law on the introduction of the euro. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that Slovenia, as a future member of the Euro Central Financial System, will respect the European criteria that apply to all members of the European System of Central Banks equally. Thus, individual national legislation cannot afford to adapt or derogate so minimally from the common standards in force, as any national move could lead to ambiguity at European level or to a specific interpretation. On the basis of this, we will support the updated proposal of the Bank of Slovenia law in the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u19	Thank you. The position of the SDS Group of Members will be presented by Mr Rudi Veršnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Bank of Slovenia Act. As we are already aware, Slovenia intends to take over the euro 1.1.2007, so it is necessary to align the Bank of Slovenia law with the Treaty establishing the European Community and the Statutes of the European System of Central Banks and the European Central Bank until the euro is taken over. Amendments and additions to the Banka Slovenije Act should be adopted by the end of April 2006, as only then will the harmonisation of the Banka Slovenije Act be taken into account in the convergence reports of the European Commission and the European Central Bank to be issued in 2006. Given that Slovenia requested the European Commission and the European Central Bank to prepare a separate report on the fulfilment of the euro takeover criteria in early March 2006, it is necessary to adopt the proposal already at this March meeting, as the European Commission and the European Central Bank are already preparing the report for Slovenia. The past convergence reports of the European Commission and the European Central Bank show certain inconsistencies in the Bank of Slovenia law with the provisions of the Treaty establishing the European Community. Slovenia removes the inconsistencies in this proposal of the Bank of Slovenia Act. Thus, the harmonised law will be the basis for assessing whether Slovenia fulfils the conditions for taking over the euro or not. The proposal amends the provisions relating to the independence of the Bank of Slovenia to monetary policy instruments relating to the implementation of foreign reserves, to economic policy objectives and to the provision of banknotes and coins and international cooperation. The law also introduces a proper record of the word euro. With regard to the exclusion of bank credits in the single list, the introduction of a financial asset register in the single list of eligible collateral for Eurosystem credit operations is also introduced. The procedure for selecting the auditor of the Bank of Slovenia is also changing. After entering the Eurosystem, the Bank of Slovenia is audited in accordance with the Statutes of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank. Let me add that the bill also introduces sanctions infringements, Council Regulations 2182 and 2183/2004 on medals and tokens similar to the euro coin. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have been reminded of Articles 17, 27 and 41 of this Act. Article 17 obliges all members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, binds all members of the Bank of Slovenia to apply the provisions of the law governing the prevention of corruption and relates to the early termination of the mandate. From the author of the law and representatives of Banka Slovenije we have received a satisfactory reply that members of the management body of Banka Slovenije, under the law on the prevention of corruption like all other officials, are obliged to report, but only non-reporting cannot be the basis for sanctions under this law. The sanctions for these officials are exclusively defined in the statute itself. Article 27 defines the revision procedure of the Bank of Slovenia, which is fully transposed in the proposal of this Act into the proper statutes of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, which means that the State of Slovenia thereby loses control of the operations of the Bank of Slovenia. The Act on Banka Slovenije also reduces the number of members of this institution from nine to five members. Because of our extraordinary interest after the early fulfilment of all the conditions for taking over the euro, we are enacting a law by emergency procedure. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u21	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Liberal Democracy Group. Mag. Milan M. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u22	Mr President, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Slovenia Act. Allow me to talk about the content, the procedure and, above all, the attitude towards the new international authority. First of all, it is fair to say that today should be a holiday, a holiday because we have been saying good-bye since we were 15. In October this year, Slovenian Tolar will be 15 years old and today we are currently implementing in this National Assembly any act related to this 15-year-old. At the same time, with the adoption of this law in the National Assembly, we conclude any procedure relating to monetary policy. We will adopt the euro and, of course, by 1 January 2007, we will have a stronger central bank by implementing this law. This central bank will be an integral part of the European central banking system and its role will be strengthened. As long as no amendment has been tabled by the end of the procedure for the adoption of this law, this will be the case. The other thing about content. Let me say, of course, it is true that Slovenia has clearly implemented public and financial policy well over the past 15 years, implemented monetary policy well and the programme adopted at the end of November 2003, the programme of the then Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Bank of Slovenia has been well implemented. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the public-financial situation is not the same, it will not be possible to keep it at the level that it is today. In doing so, it is very important to stress that it is not entirely true that the Maastricht criterion for public financial deficit is 3%, but it is 3% at the bottom of the business cycle. As Slovenia has grown 4.2% in 2004, 3.9% in 2005, it would be appropriate for the public deficit to be below 2% today. Thus, it should be noted that a government deficit of 3% or minus 3% is allowed only when we are at the bottom of the business cycle. And since the European Union reminds us, through the European Commissioner, of the serious problems associated with the decisions taken in this national assembly last year, it is also worth keeping an eye on that we can take care of public financial stability, because we will only be a good component of the European monetary system. And in the end, the admission procedure. It is unacceptable that, after Mr Bajuk made his initial appearance with the Minister of Finance somewhere between 3 and 6 December 2004, and already knew that amendments to the Bank of Slovenia law should be adopted, the amendments to the Bank of Slovenia law would come about the day before the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly. On the 16th of March, 15th to 5th, the law came to the National Assembly to decide at the College the following day to bring this law into force following an urgent procedure for this regular meeting. I do not see what it would be like for any parliamentary group to take advantage of its business opportunities and demand, which is obviously quite normal in this national assembly to take account of the relevant five-day deadline. We could not deal with this law today. Why it took the government a year to bring this law into the National Assembly, we do not know it. However, Members and Members [[End warning sign]] , if we adopted the first Banka Slovenije Act in the pre-war period following a regular procedure, we do not understand why the procedure is necessary. The only thing we know is that this government is weak, uncoordinated [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u23	Comrade Squeakle, time! Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today, as part of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.40 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. Period of the day - Second defense of the bill on financial conglomerates. In doing so, I would like to inform you that the time scheduled for this item to be considered is 1 hour and 27 minutes. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u24	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Financial Conglomerates Act contains a transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2002 on the supplementary supervision of credit institutions, insurance companies, investment firms in financial conglomerates, complementing or upgrading the existing supervision of the operations of the three financial sector sectors, namely the banking, insurance and securities market sectors, where individual supervised persons are banks, insurance undertakings, reinsurance undertakings, pension companies, credit intermediary companies and management companies that are from those sectors due to the capital, management, business and other links of the financial conglomerate. With the implementation of the proposed law, additional supervision of supervised persons in financial conglomerates will begin in Slovenia as from 1 January 2007. The main purpose or objectives of complementary control are to reduce the risks associated with the operation of supervised persons in the financial conglomerate and thus ensure greater stability of the financial system. In addition, the purpose of the supplementary supervision is to ensure, in particular, the control of the fulfilment of capital requirements, the control of significant transactions in the group and the concentration of the risks of supervised persons in the financial conglomerate, the proper functioning of internal control, the appropriateness of the ownership structure of supervised persons in the financial conglomerate and the supervision of the suitability or professional competence of members of mixed financial holding boards. The aim of the law is also to increase the effectiveness of control over supervised persons from different financial sectors where they are part of a financial conglomerate, based on closer cooperation and exchange of information between the coordinator, so-called the main supervisor of the financial conglomerate, who is responsible for the complementary supervision of supervised persons in the financial conglomerate and other supervised bodies which are primarily responsible for individual or consolidated supervision of individual supervised persons. The law also specifically defines the mandatory prior consultation of all the supervisory authorities involved within the conglomerate before making significant decisions relating to changes to the shareholder’s organisational and management composition of the supervised persons of the financial conglomerate, or in relation to the exceptional measures of the supervisory authorities. The law also requires the coordinator and other supervisory authorities involved to conclude a coordination agreement with each other to establish and effectively implement the supplementary supervision of each financial conglomerate. The aim of this law is also to increase the transparency and security of the functioning of the Slovenian financial market as an integral part of the single market in the area of the Member States of the European Communities. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u25	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! At its 16th meeting, on 15.3.2006, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law on financial conglomerates submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and acceptance. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service on many articles was forwarded to the meeting. The Committee has taken most of its comments into account in the drafting, adoption of its amendments, which are later mentioned. Additional material was also provided to the Committee. Comments from the Association of Investment Fund Management Companies of 6.3., Amendment to Banka Slovenije of 14.3., Amendment to the Ministry of Public Administration of 14.3. Pending the expiry of the deadlines for the submission of amendments to the proposed law, qualified applicants have not tabled any amendments. Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Bank of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting. In the discussion, a proposal was made in the individual articles or proposals for amendments to the Committee with regard to Article 35 to provide for the participation of the Minister of Finance with the Slovenian Institute for Audit in the details of the contents of the audit and the audit report, since only cooperation with the Bank of Slovenia, the Securities Market Agency and the Agency for Insurance and Control was envisaged by the proposer of the law in this regard. In accordance with the law on the revision of the issue of Slovenian accounting standards and its cooperation from this point of view, as well as with respect to the implementation of the profession, it is essential. Then, with regard to the provision of Article 58 relating to the expressed values in euro, a proposal was made to align the entry of the title of the common European currency with the already ratified Treaty of Constitution for Europe by replacing the word "v" in the text of this Article with the word "u". The Committee has taken these proposals into account in the drafting and adoption of its amendments to Article 35 and to Article 58, which we later adopted. With regard to the amendment proposal by the Bank of Slovenia to amend Article 20 concerning the regulation of all possible situations of life in the event of a coordinator being identified and the Ministry of Finance agrees, the discussion expressed the view that this proposal does not solve all cases and is not acceptable in this respect. In doing so, it was stressed that we will not have many financial conglomerates in Slovenia, so it is all the more important to answer the question of who will be the coordinator and who will exercise control when adopting their ownership structure. The provision of Article 26 relating to the calculation of the supplementary capital requirements of supervised persons in the financial conglomerate was also noted and will, of course, appear or require later when these financial conglomerates are formed. The Committee adopted, on the basis of comments from the legislative and legal service, the amendments by the Bank of Slovenia and the Ministry of Public Administration, and proposals put forward in the debate a number of amendments that I will not list. Finally, in the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law in which, of course, all the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared. I propose that such a proposal be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u27	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Member Cyril Testen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u28	Hello again! Directive 2002/87 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16.12.2002 concerns financial conglomerates. The Directive concerns the supplementary supervision of credits from institutions, insurance companies and investment firms, constitutes an upgrade to business control. With the implementation of the law on financial conglomerates and the adoption of sub-legislative regulations, additional supervision of insured persons will also begin in Slovenia as of 1.1.2007. The main purpose of complementary control is to ensure that the risks associated with controlled persons are managed and consequently reduced. In particular, additional supervision relates to the fulfilment of capital adequacy, the concentration of risks on insured persons, the proper functioning of internal controls, the proper management of capital and risks, the adequacy of the ownership structure and the professional competence of members of mixed financial holding boards. Strengthen the effectiveness of supervision of insured persons from different financial sectors when they are part of a financial conglomerate. The cooperation and exchange of information between the coordinator responsible for supplementary supervision in the conglomerate and other supervisory authorities responsible for individual supervision is important here. In particular, coordination between all the supervisory authorities involved before making important decisions relating to changes to the shareholders, organisational or management composition of the conglomerate is also identified. The coordinator and the other bodies involved must conclude a coordination agreement with each other on the basis of a proposal for a law. One of the main objectives of the proposed law is also to increase the transparency and security of the functioning of the Slovenian financial market as an integral part of the single financial market in the European Community. The Slovenian financial market is now characterised by a stable trend in growth and the share of business in gross domestic product at the end of 2004 was already 130%. For insurance companies as well as for banks, Slovenia has a high market concentration. In the past, integration in Slovenia has been linked exclusively to capital ties. One financial conglomerate was identified in Slovenia in 2004. In view of the changes already made and envisaged in the ownership structure, it is envisaged that one or two more may arise in the future. The main motive for financial integration is to increase revenue and reduce costs, which are pressured by shareholders and also by modern technology. Due to the complexity of the Directive, only 11 Member States of the European Union have been incorporated into their legislation by 25.10.2005. However, additional supervision of financial conglomerates is necessary because there are more of them in the European Union from day to day. In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we will support the draft law because we believe that additional supervision is needed for the stability of the financial market.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u29	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Ambassador Joseph Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Financial Conglomerates Act in our legal system implements the Directive on the complementary supervision of credit investments of investment firms in the financial conglomerate. This is a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2002 introducing additional supervision of banks, insurance companies, reinsurance companies, pension companies, brokering companies and management companies where these are part of the financial conglomerate. This regime is necessary in particular because of the opening of borders within the European Union and the fact that there is an increasing number of insurance companies, banks and other financial institutions operating outside the borders of their countries. The bill thus ensures the management of the risks associated with the operation of supervised persons in the financial conglomerate and thus ensures greater stability of the financial sector. On the basis of the law under consideration, it will be possible to increase the control and transparency and safety of the Slovenian financial market. We are therefore adopting a law that is necessary on the one hand because we have an adopted directive imposing this on us. On the other hand, the proposed or proposed law will also help to ensure the safety of the financial market in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the law is well prepared and that the supervision of companies in the financial conglomerate is properly regulated. It prescribes the necessary methods and procedures, defines concepts and establishes conditions for a reliable, transparent and efficient system of capital management and the risks of supervised persons at financial conglomerate level. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u31	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Ambassador Ivan Yelen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the government's proposal for a law on financial conglomerates. The government law provides for a European Directive on additional supplementary supervision of credit institutions, banks, insurance companies and investment firms. In the Group of Members, we believe that coordination with the European Directive brings into our financial area a new financial form that complements and builds on the current supervision of financial sectors, banking, insurance and securities markets, when individual supervisors are part of the financial conglomerate. We are aware of the purpose of the law, which provides for complementary supervision in terms of managing and reducing risks in relation to the operations of supervised persons in the financial conglomerate. At the same time, there is a need to ensure greater stability of the financial system. In the European Union, financial conglomerates take over, represent an important market share: Belgium, the Netherlands, Finland, Germany, Spain, Austria. The essential novelties of the proposed solutions are shown in particular in the criteria for determining the existence of a financial conglomerate, determining risk management, controlling compliance with the prescribed capital adequacy, concentration of risks in the financial group, business in the group, meeting the conditions for the appointment of members of the mixed financial holding company administration and recalling them, cooperation and exchange of information between the competent and supervisory authorities. These criteria are undoubtedly adapted to the size of the national economy. In order to act as supervisor of Banka Slovenije, the Securities Market Agency and the Insurance Supervisory Agency, more obligations will be required, while they would not have any additional work with supervisors. In the selection and designation of the Head of Authority, the supervisory authority which reaches the largest share in the financial market conglomerate will normally be selected. Now the conditions are met by Insurance Company Triglav and A Bank. The law also defines the tighter corporate work of supervisory authorities from different financial sectors and from different Member States. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that financial conglomerate services offer a unique and, above all, an acceptable and responsible solution to the user. The advantage of the regulation of financial conglomerates is shown primarily as a received service in the so-called "one-stop shop". The price at which they are willing to negotiate is undoubtedly important to the user. At the same time, there is no exclusionary simplicity, rapid accessibility, financial service provision. In the parliamentary group, we can safely state that it is necessary to harmonise this terminology with the terminology of the activities of companies, insurance, securities markets and investment funds and management companies and to define some of the new usable institutions, the euro or the euro, the main business, the regular activity, the basic activity, the definition, the collective investment firms for investment in transferable securities, the management or control bodies, the uniform concept of administration, the supervisory board and the management board. In our view, in the substantive provisions of the law, all amounts should be listed in the applicable monetary unit of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. in tolars. It is necessary to specify the time limits or validity of those periods. In the framework of the audit review and the audit report in Article 35 of the Group, we believe that it is essential to include the Slovenian Institute for Audit, which, together with the Minister of Finance, will participate in the Bank of Slovenia. Given that we are a small country, we assume that we will not have many financial conglomerates, but it is nevertheless necessary to provide for and ensure proper and transparent business. In doing so, we draw attention to future changes in the ownership structures of enterprises. In the DeSUS Group, we are confident that in this law we will increase transparency, control and security over the functioning of the Slovenian financial market, which is also an integral part of the European financial market. On the basis of this, in the DeSUS Group, we will support a complementary proposal for a law on financial conglomerates.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u33	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members. Comrade Bojan Starman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u34	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Globalisation of financial markets, conditional on the liberalisation of national financial markets and the abolition of legal and other restrictions on the management of financial services between countries, in particular in the European area, has enabled the development and functioning of financial conglomerates within and outside individual countries that control all financial services, in particular in the areas of banking, insurance and securities-related services. This is why Directive 2002/87 has been adopted at European Union level, as the interconnection of capital and possible different transactions and the lack of supervision of these types of financial groups may threaten the stability of the entire financial system in a country as well as a wider one. In order to detect, measure and monitor the risks arising from the capital and other links of supervised and unsupervised persons in the financial conglomerate, it is necessary to prescribe methods for determining the capital and additional capital requirements of supervised persons in the financial conglomerate, as well as procedures for monitoring the fulfilment of complementary capital requirements, to identify significant transactions in the group by value and type, as well as significant levels of risk or exposure of persons to different risks in the financial conglomerate. It is also necessary to establish a reliable, transparent and efficient system of capital management and the risks of supervised persons at the level of the financial conglomerate. In the financial conglomerate, they must also have an appropriate internal control system for the preparation and transmission of information for the purpose of supplementary control. The transparent ownership structure of persons in the financial conglomerate and the competence and suitability of members of the mixed financial holding board should also be ensured. The Slovenian Democratic Party will, of course, support the proposed law because it contains all these elements that I have previously found and provides or enhances the security of financial operations in our country and, of course, also within the framework of the European system. The law transposes the previously mentioned Directive 2 on 16 December 2002 on the supplementary supervision of credit institutions, insurance and investment services in the financial conglomerate and complements or upgrades the existing supervision of the operations of the three financial sector sectors: the banking, insurance and market value of the securities where individual supervised persons from those sectors are part of the financial conglomerate. With the implementation of the proposed law and on the basis of its regulations, additional supervision of insured persons who are part of a financial conglomerate established in accordance with the criteria will be initiated in Slovenia from 1.1.2007. One more time. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u35	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is presented. Mag. Milan M. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr State Secretary, Mrs Bornnikov, Members and Members of Parliament, absent Members and present Members. Liberal democracy of Slovenia, the parliamentary club supports the purpose of this law, because this law is intended to ensure the management of the risks associated with the operation of supervised persons of financial conglomerates. This should ensure greater stability of the financial sector. The cooperation of the competent supervisory authorities and the coordinator should increase the effectiveness of supervision of supervised persons from different financial sectors when these are part of the financial conglomerate. The transparency and security of the functioning of the financial market in the Republic of Slovenia as an integral part of the single financial market should also be enhanced. I am saying all this on condition because we are afraid that, with the speedy debate and the speedy adoption of this law, which we have changed slightly on the home working body, we will not be able to implement fully the provisions of the Directive on the Supplementary Control of Credit Institutions. This is particularly true because it is necessary to supplement the existing and, in practice, under-use individual and consolidated supervision of supervised persons, especially in Slovenia for individual companies operating on or in connection with the securities market. Here we are thinking mainly of the stock exchange companies and the management companies. In the Liberal Democracy, we support the principles of law, such as the principle of transparency, the principle of prevention of double or multiple capital counting, the principle of reducing the risk of negative interactions, and in particular the principle of consumer protection, particularly in this context the principle of protection of small shareholders and the principle of equal control in third countries, especially since in Slovenia, of course, the characteristics of Slovenian financial institutions must operate abroad because of the limited domestic market. However, all these principles and legislation do not help us if the state does not first establish the same conditions. I'll give you a case. In Slovenia we have certain companies, financial, legal successors of former PIDs, who, unlike others, can do certain transactions. It would be good or good to hear from government representatives why KD Group was able to buy from Holdinga Slovenian Power Plants or why Holding Slovenian Power Plants as a KD Group was willing to buy the shares in some of Holdinga Slovenian Power Plants. That'd be good to say. Indeed, there is nothing to help us pass the law on financial conglomerates if the government, the state, the institutions of the parastats are the first to violate the principles of equal market rules. Secondly, which is why, of course, we have a problem with this law and therefore we believe that these principles will only be met in principle, and the law will only achieve its objectives on the conditioner, but it is in the hope that the applicants at the very meeting of the parent body - I hope that this will be said today - will not be able to explain in the given structure, with the ownership structure of the two largest financial institutions, the largest banks and the largest insurance companies, that is, in the event that the New Ljubljanska Bank, the shareholder company, and the Insurance Company Triglav, together with all the existing legal owners or their possible changes, who would be the supervisor and who would be the coordinator. We are aware that this government has no intention of creating a joint supervisor for financial conglomerates, and therefore, of course, we estimate that there will be dilemmas in practice that the supervisory institution will take precedence over the second. At the previous point, the Bank of Slovenia Act closed the debate on who is the regulator for banks. We hope, however, that these institutions will continue to be independent despite the untransparent functioning of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u37	Thank you, Comrade Squeakle. Before inviting the next representative of the Group of Members to present the report or position of the Group of Members, I must remind you that, by mistake, there has also been an error in the notification of today's absence of the Member of the European Parliament, Mr Drago Koren. I now invite my colleague France Horvath to present the report or position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u38	Thank you for your kind invitation and for your word. Dear Government Representative, colleague and colleague! We support the proposal of the Social Democrats in the Parliamentary Group, and not only for formal reasons, this is due to the harmonisation of legislation with the directives of the European Union, but mainly for substantive and practical reasons. This is the need to ensure more effective coordinated and consolidated control of financial organisations and systems. This need does not diminish the fact that in Slovenia, in the near future, it is unlikely that more financial conglomerates will arise. Globalisation of financial markets will not and should not come to Slovenia, especially under the conditions of entry into the European Monetary Union. On the contrary, we are convinced that it is realistic to expect that Slovenia will become more interesting for players in the international financial and capital market after entering the euro area. There will certainly be a need for more integration of Slovenian financial organisations on the Slovenian market and also across borders. This process, in addition to the positive effects, may also entail risks that individual regulators and independent supervisors cannot be part of. Transparency and security of the functioning of the financial market is also essential for the protection of the consumer. In this regard, we are asked whether the proposed solutions for effective integrated control through the envisaged coordination between supervisors, the Central Bank, the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Securities Market Agency will be sufficient. We believe that in the near future, probably after entering the euro area, it would suggest restoring the idea and the debate that was already in the past, the integration of supervisory institutions or at least parts of them. Developing financial market countries have specific institutions for coordinated and integrated supervision. This is also seen in the presentation of arrangements in some countries of the European Union. Finally, let me mention another very topical issue concerning the recent increase in bank tariffs. This has caused, as we know, quite justified dissatisfaction. According to our assessment, the government should consider establishing supervision and impact on banking services, either within the Competition Office, within the Consumer Protection Office or in setting up a specific institution, following the example of some other countries, such as the Netherlands. Obviously, the market itself does not address this issue and will not deal effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u39	Thank you, colleague of Ferry Horvath. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 29.3.2006. I am putting to the debate Article 41 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.40 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments. We'll deal with it in a short-term manner. I'm informing you that 35 minutes are scheduled for consideration of this point. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has forwarded the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments to the National Assembly for the following reasons: firstly, it is a matter of compliance with the Constitutional Court decision; secondly, it is a matter of compliance with the directives or regulations of the European Union and is also linked to the introduction of the euro. As I have already mentioned, the main reason for the amendment of the Act is the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia which annulled the provision of Article 29 or the first and second paragraphs of this Article relating to natural persons other than private persons. This abolished the legal basis for keeping the register of transaction accounts for natural persons. This, however, causes a major problem in the area of enforcement and also in the field of the implementation of tax procedures. In addition, the absence of a register of transactions of natural persons prevents payment service providers from implementing the seventh paragraph of Article 8 of the Law prohibiting the opening of a transaction account to a natural person who has outstanding obligations, whether on the basis of a tax procedure law or on the basis of an enforcement law. The bill re-examines the legal basis for keeping the register of transaction accounts, taking full account of the Constitutional Court’s decision. The second reason, as I mentioned, is the issue of compliance with the European Directive on the finality of settlement in payments and securities settlement systems. This was carried out in the context of the Bank of Slovenia’s integration into two European systems and showed some non-compliance in the implementation of this Directive into the Slovenian legal order and this amendment of the law actually eliminates this non-compliance. In addition, the law or proposal for a law also introduces certain changes envisaged for the adoption of the euro. These are the three reasons which led the government to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments. The Government therefore proposes that the National Assembly adopt that amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u41	Thank you for your further explanation. In the parliamentary procedure, the draft law treated the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! At its 15th meeting, on 9.3.2006, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and acceptance. At its 52nd meeting, on 27.1.2006, the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted a decision to deal with these amendments following a reduced procedure. Representatives of the Finance Ministry and a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly attended the meetings of the Committee as representatives of the proponents. The new law also introduces less difficult changes to the basic text, which are in line with Directive 98/26 of the European Community, and the changes required by the envisaged takeover of the euro as a monetary unit in the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, on this basis, an amended regime for the management of the register of transactions accounts for non-private natural persons is envisaged as a result of a decision of the Constitutional Court. The Committee was also given an opinion on the legislative and legal service and comments on Articles 4, 10 and 19 of the draft law. No additional amendments have been tabled by qualified applicants. The members of the Committee received additional material on 8.3. with proposals for amendments to the Committee on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on 4, 9, 19 and a new 20.a. of the legislative proposal, as shown in the follow-up to the report. Following the meeting, a number of questions were raised, appropriate answers were also addressed and amendments were adopted by the Committee on 4, 9, 19 and 20th. In view of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a text is prepared, the updated text of the draft law, which we propose or propose to be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u43	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Mr Josip Bajc to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u44	Once again, Mr Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Government Representative, colleague and colleague! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments relates to compliance with the Constitutional Court’s decision and some amendments to Directive 98/26 already implemented and compliance with Directive 2000/46. In addition, by virtue of the law adopted, Slovenian entities will be allowed to integrate into foreign payment systems, which is essential also in order to take over the euro as a monetary unit in the Republic of Slovenia. Last October, the Constitutional Court annulled that part of Article 29 of the Act governing the maintenance of a register of transactions accounts for natural persons who are not private and the Constitutional Court did not provide for at least a provisional decision on the management of that register. This issue needs to be addressed as the decision of the Constitutional Court raises certain problems, in particular in the enforcement of certain other procedures or the implementation of certain other legal provisions is not possible. The bill now addresses this area in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. It is important that there is now a clear intention to use this data and also to make it accessible. The law also regulates the area of insolvency, which is too narrowly defined in the current regulation. In accordance with the provisions of Directive 2000/46, the corresponding amount of the company’s minimum basic capital for the issue of electronic money shall be legalised. However, in accordance with the amended provisions of the law, criminal provisions are also coordinated in the law on payment transactions. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group have no reservations about the bill and I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u45	Thank you, colleague Bajc. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the DeSUS Group. I'm sorry, my mistake. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the SDS Group of Members, Comrade Bojan Starman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, once again for your time. The current Law on Payments was adopted in March 2002 and was aligned with the acquis in the European Union in March 2004. By a decision of 27.10., the Constitutional Court annulled the first and second paragraphs of Article 29 of the Law in so far as it relates to natural persons other than private persons. This means that there is no longer a legal basis for keeping the register of transactions accounts for natural persons who are not private. The Constitutional Court’s decision did not provide for a temporary regulation of this area concerning the processing of personal data of non-private individuals and therefore the Register of Transaction Accounts in this part cannot be used or processed at that time, which constitutes in certain areas such as enforcement, tax procedures, the prevention of money laundering, a major problem or a delay in the effective exercise of jurisdiction. The assessment of Slovenian legislation in terms of compliance with Directive 98/26 of the European Community, which was carried out under the procedures for the integration of Banka Slovenije into the European Payment System EURO 1 and the German RTG Splus payment system, has shown that there are certain shortcomings or uncertainties in the law which call into question the appropriateness of the implementation of that Directive into Slovenian legislation. Amendments to the law are necessary in order to ensure full implementation of the provisions of Directive 98/26 in the Law on Payments. In particular, the assessment raised the issue of the appropriate definition of terms and consequently the appropriate definition of the consequences set out in the Directive. The assessment thus showed that the interpretation of individual concepts is too narrow in view of the purpose of the Directive and therefore no comprehensive implementation of this Directive into Slovenian legislation is ensured. In particular, it is a matter of defining the members of the payment system where a broader definition is proposed, such as the payment service providers currently in force after the law, and the definition of insolvency proceedings, where a broader definition is also proposed as bankruptcy under the current text of the law. Since the assessment of the adequacy of the implementation of that Directive in national legislation is a mandatory component of the procedures for the integration of domestic institutions into payment systems in other Member States, and thus one of the procedures in the context of the integration of Slovenian banks into TARGET of a European payment system for the settlement of euro payments of high value, it is necessary to ensure the implementation of this Directive by law in a manner that does not give rise to any doubt as to the compatibility of Slovenian legislation with the Directive. In view of the integration of Slovenian banks and other institutions into foreign payment systems, amendments are necessary to remove the restrictions that prohibit payment providers from settling large amounts in any other system such as the system operated by Banka Slovenije, and the amendment of the law is also necessary to increase the amount of the basic capital of electronic money companies prescribed by the applicable law of 222 million tolars, and the directive provides that this amount should be a million tolar. The proposal for amendments to this Act lays down the basis for keeping a register of transaction accounts for natural persons who have ceased to exist by a decision of the Constitutional Court. The proposal for a law provides a broader definition of insolvency proceedings, since the law in force defines only a procedure in the event of bankruptcy of the payment system, which is too narrow in terms of European Union rules. Insolvency proceedings are for the purposes of this Act, i.e. enforcement procedures, bankruptcy and involuntary liquidation procedures and other measures or procedures which exclude or refer to the execution of settlement orders and the extension of applicable provisions relating to insolvency proceedings and to all insolvency proceedings. The provisions of the law governing payment systems or members of payment systems for the applicable law shall also be amended and supplemented. According to Directive 98/26, it is too narrow to provide that members of the payment system can only be payment service providers. The proposal provides that the rules of the payment system also determine the moment when the settlement order is accepted into the system and the moment of irrevocability of the settlement order. According to the current regulation, Banka Slovenije operates a payment system for the settlement of large-value tolar payments, which will cease to exist by taking over the euro as a monetary unit of the Republic of Slovenia. In short, all of these reasons point us to the fact that the Slovenian Democratic Party will also support this proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u47	Thank you. I invite Member Cyril Testen to present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Once again, everyone, welcome! In the opinion of the New Slovenia Group, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on payment transactions should be adopted for the following reasons. The Constitutional Court, by decision No. 298 of 27.10.2005 repealed the first and second paragraphs of Article 29 of the Law in so far as they relate to natural persons. In this way, the legal basis for keeping the register of transaction accounts for natural persons has been abolished. The Constitutional Court has decided that the regulation is unconstitutional because it violates the principle of the protection of personal data by allowing general access to transaction accounts. The amendment of the law proposed by the Government will reintroduce the register of transaction accounts, which will not be made publicly available via the Internet, but will only be made available to authorised public servants, banks, savings banks, courts, upon a transitional request from the Bank of Slovenia. The implementation of Directive 98/26 extends the definition of insolvency proceedings. Our current law defines only a procedure in the event of bankruptcy of the payment system, which is too narrow from the point of view of European legislation and extends to forced settlement, involuntary liquidation or all procedures restricting the execution of settlement orders. Compliance with Directive 2000/46 setting out the minimum basic capital of the company for the issue of electronic money in tolars. The Directive prescribes a minimum million euros, representing approximately 240 million in tolars. On the Committee on Finance, the opposition's biggest opposition was why the government has decided to propose 245 million, which is more than a million euros. The applicants explained that only the minimum amount was prescribed and that it is also better to place a slightly higher amount from the point of view of the exchange rate change, although no change is expected. Enable the integration of Slovenian entities into foreign payment systems. The provision of the law governing payment systems is amended as the law in force provides that only payment service providers may be members of the payment system. The new bill only defines members of payment systems a little wider than has been the case so far. By taking over the euro, the execution of high-value payments falls within the competence of the European payment systems, which means that for the Bank of Slovenia, which has so far been the provider of these payments, revenues are being reduced. In view of the fact that only actual costs were charged for these payments, this change in the operation of the Bank of Slovenia should not be significantly known. In the New Slovenia Group of Members - The Christian People's Party, we will support the bill because we believe that it is necessary to respect the decision of the Constitutional Court and at the same time it is necessary to create the conditions for the normal functioning of the State. We also support the proposal because the changes are necessary for the adoption of EU directives and the inclusion of Slovenia after the euro has been taken over into the European payment system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u49	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading of the bill. Since no amendment has been tabled to the draft law, there is no possibility to discuss any article, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today within the framework of the voting point, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda or at the latest at 19:00 and 40 minutes. I hereby end this point and thank the representatives of the Government for their participation. And we're moving on to 3. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed law on collective bargaining. I would like to inform you, however, that a total time of 48 minutes is foreseen for this debate. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings to all present! In the process of long-term coordination with the social partners, which lasted more than 10 years and was also waiting for a new labour law, the proposal for a collective agreement reached a truly high degree of coordination. The draft law is governed by the parties, the content, the hierarchy of collective agreements and the conclusion process and the subsequent approach to the collective agreement, its form, general and widespread activity and the termination of the collective agreement, the peaceful resolution of collective disputes and the record and publication of collective agreements. The proposed collective bargaining law is based on the fundamental principle that collective bargaining should be free and voluntary, which has so far not been implemented primarily because of the existing old labour law. This principle is also contained in the Convention of the International Labour Organisation, which our country has ratified. The law defines trade unions and employers or their associations as parties to collective agreements. In compliance with the principle of volunteering, only those associations that are voluntary are entitled to be parties to the collective agreement and therefore are not based on principled compulsory membership. The law also regulates the hierarchy of legal acts and, as a novelty, provides for an exception to the general principle that a collective agreement at a lower level can only provide for more favourable rights for workers than a collective agreement at a broader level. It is envisaged that a collective agreement at a broader level should lay down the conditions under which a collective agreement at a broader level lays down conditions under which rights and working conditions that are different or less favourable for a worker may be established on a more flexible basis, in order to achieve a sufficiently flexible way of dealing with crisis situations. The new legal regime also enforces the principle that the collective agreement applies only to the parties who have concluded it. Subject to certain conditions, however, the general and extended validity of collective agreements concluded is also envisaged. In this context, the term general validity of the collective agreement means that the collective agreement shall apply to all employees of the employer to whom this contract applies, irrespective of their membership in the trade union. However, with regard to the resolution of collective disputes, the legal proposal currently in force provides for a comprehensive and precise regime for the peaceful resolution of disputes involving negotiation, mediation and arbitration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u51	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and the disabled as the working body of the mother. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to present his views.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm a little out of breath, we've had one meeting, and today work is running so fast, we're planning a little bit. Here's the thing. The Committee considered the law in question at its 13th regular meeting on 10.3.2006. The members and members of the Committee received a proposal for a bill, opinions from the Legislative and Legal Service of 22.2.2006, opinions from the Commission of the State Council, and amendments were tabled by four members of the coalition and amendments of which I proposed. A representative of the proposer participated in the work of the Committee, the legislative and legal service and, of course, a number of interested institutions. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service has examined that draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, and in terms of the technical and legislative aspects, and has made some concrete comments, which we have subsequently abolished in the course of the Committee's amendments, so that the amended proposal for a law is properly drafted on this floor. The main debate between Members and Members of the Committee and the public concerned took place on the question of the amendment to Article 2, of which I myself was the proposer. The amendment in question somehow interfered with the proposed concept of the law in the sense that, as a party to the collective bargaining process, the Council of Workers, at least in that case or in those cases where the trade union was not organised in the company, but that, both by the proponents and some interested public, in particular trade unions, it appeared that such entry into the law was out of the concept and therefore the amendment was not adopted and the other amendments of the same proposer became irrelevant on this basis. The Committee has adopted the amendments, the amendment of the four groups of Members to Article 4, and has also adopted its amendments to a number of articles, and thus, as has already been said, we have addressed the weaknesses in the proposal for a law based on the opinion of the legislative service. The amended bill is before us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u53	Thank you for the report. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues and, of course, also a government representative. The collective agreement is undoubtedly one of the basic labour laws. In a social agreement between 2003 and 2005, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia committed itself to the promotion and development of the system of collective agreements, including the strengthening of social dialogue at all levels. If I start with the latter, i.e. strengthening social dialogue or better taking this into account, then I hope to say that the government has done little and much to the detriment of it. As far as the development of the collective bargaining system is concerned, today we do have a law that has been promised and has been established since 1994, if I have the right data. The law should be coordinated with the social partners, despite some comments and issues that remain open. The novelty in the law is a hierarchy of legal acts and the exception is that a collective agreement at a lower level can only provide for more favourable rights for workers than a collective agreement. But the second paragraph of Article 5 denies the previous provision very quickly. This clearly legitimises the possibility that collective bargaining at a narrower level can always establish rights and working conditions that are different or less favourable for workers. This means not only the destruction of the hierarchy introduced by the law, but also the possibility of clearly reducing workers' rights. According to the Council of Workers' Associations, the proposed solutions are unacceptable, they are supposed to be retrograde, and they also point to the concept of an absolute monopoly of trade unions. The solutions are expected to be even discriminatory in relation to the entire non- trade unional population of workers. For most of the workers, according to data also covered by the government, are not currently members of the union. They even assess that this is supposed to be a mockery of the principle of union freedom. And when I mentioned freedom; the law speaks of voluntary collective bargaining, so it does not specify the content or types of collective agreements, nor the level at which they are to conclude. The collective agreement thus acts as an autonomous legal source and no more than a legal supplement, which clearly implies that conflicts between the contractual partners will also be easier to conclude or, secondly, to hold hands with the heart, easier to circumvent. But there will be no collective agreement. In short, some open questions remain. On the home working body, on the working body of this Parliament, we did not get an explanation and Members were not given because it was obviously not worth giving an explanation or an additional explanation to the proposed law. Just as it is unclear what happens in the event of a breach of the obligations of the parties who have entered into a collective agreement and where and how sanctions are envisaged. This is not in this document, and we did not get this on the parent's working body - that is, the explanation. In view of the fact that one basic labour legislation is also in the opinion of the Government, it would still be good to have answers to questions that are unclear. Finally, another question that we have been asked or asked in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. The fact is that the government is moving towards changes in the field of labour law and that the proposal for a collective agreement law is also one of these laws, which fall within the framework of labour law. It is also true that certain sectors in the era of globalisation do not achieve development or growth. Let me mention here a textile or footwear industry. And I fear that, in fact, there is an opportunity in this law that a collective agreement at a narrower level can determine the rights and working conditions that are less favourable for workers, in fact, the answer to the question of globalisation in Slovenian industries. Therefore, the deprivation of workers' rights so that these sectors of work can be maintained in our country. In the Slovenian National Party, as long as we receive answers,
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u55	Time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u56	We'll support the marriage, otherwise, I'm sorry, no. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u57	We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the DeSUS Group, mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u58	Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleague and colleague, distinguished representative of the government! Our parliamentary group will support the collective bargaining law because it believes that after ten years it is time for the national assembly to adopt this law. However, despite the support of this law, the Group of Members still has certain concerns. The law also brings new, questionable solutions to us when it comes to the implementation of meaningful objectives, such as that the rights and working conditions laid down by the collective agreement at a broader level may not only be different in the collective agreement at a lower level but also less favourable. The amendment to such a solution that our parliamentary group has drawn up has been withdrawn because we have received an assurance from the Ministry of Labour that this provision of Article 5 of the law is in line with the unions. Since we do not want to doubt the Ministry's arguments, we are therefore wondering what convinced the unions that they have agreed to such a provision as to allow employers to recognise less favourable working conditions and rights as set out in the umbrella collective agreement for activity. In our opinion, this possibility of providing less favourable conditions will be sought by most employers, since the practice so far is that, as far as such formal options were not available, employers have not fully respected or cut collective agreements. We are also convinced that there is also a problem with Article 12 of the Law, which gives the Minister the opportunity to extend the validity of the collective agreement to all employers if he enters into a contract with at least one of the representative unions and one employers' association. This provision means a conflict with the principle that the collective agreement applies only to those parties who have concluded it. It is also possible for certain rights to be enjoyed only by members of the union, such that it forces one to think that membership in the union would be compulsory if we subtracted the problematicity of the provision in terms of equality before the law, in which case the rights arising from the collective agreement. Whether our concerns are justified will soon be revealed. However, given that the law has been largely coordinated with employers and trade unions, our parliamentary group will support the law, even though it carries with it a number of shortcomings in our view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u59	Thank you. The position of the Hungarian National Community is to be presented by Ambassador Maria Possonec. She's not here. The position of the SDS Group of Members will be presented by Mr Ivan Grill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u60	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State, colleague and colleague. The Collective Contracts Act is a law that has come a long time since the content of this Act is a very important and sensitive topic for both workers and employers. An acceptable law for both sides can only be created provided that the solutions in the law are as consensual as possible and therefore require a lot of coordination and negotiation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the solutions proposed are based on long-term negotiations and are therefore, in our opinion, good. The purpose of the Collective Contracts Act is primarily to regulate the relationship between the parties, the content, the hierarchy of collective agreements, the procedures for the conclusion of a subsequent approach to collective agreements, its form, general and extended validity, as well as the termination of the contract. It is also important that the resolution of collective disputes be settled in a peaceful and consensual manner and that all matters are well recorded and published. The law is based on the fundamental principle that the conclusion of contracts should be free and voluntary. That is why this law does not provide for compulsory conclusion of contracts, nor does it contain mandatory content of collective agreements, nor does it provide for types of collective agreements at a level at which they are, of course, intended to conclude them. If these points were not taken into account, they would intervene at the discretion of the parties and prevent the conclusion from occurring at all times and everywhere, as well as where the will and interest of both parties are such. This means that the general lead was also in that the autonomy of the parties should be a priority. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the bill is a good one, especially because it also applies the principle of legal regulation that collective bargaining is only valid for the parties who have concluded it, and this seems extremely important to us. For all these reasons, we will also support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u61	Thank you, Comrade Grill. Member Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The fundamental issues of collective bargaining arrangements and collective agreements are still regulated by the Labour Rights Act and the Old Labour Relations Act. Despite the fact that we did not have a specific law governing collective bargaining in Slovenia, such conditions for equal partnership have been established to allow for open dialogue between equal partners, resulting in Slovenia being at the top of the world in the coverage of employees with collective agreements. However, we are pleased that, after lengthy negotiations through the Economic Council, the social partners have succeeded in reaching a consensus on the basic content of the bill, resulting in today's consideration of the collective agreement law and further strengthening the possibility of an equal and respectful dialogue between employers and workers, which must be based on a partnership. However, such negotiations may take quite a while, even for several years, but the consensus reached by both sides represents stability for the area governed by the collective agreement. By the way, let me mention that Slovenia is currently negotiating a large amount of collective agreement between the government and the employer and representatives of workers in the public sector in the pay system. Initially, negotiations took place very well, but in some part, for such or other reasons, Minister Virant started the system he set up to break down, because of the fact that he did not want to take employees in the public sector as equal partners, but the government put itself in a position of head, which dictates conditions. The facts we are now learning suggest that the government has engaged in very reckless and underestimating negotiations. New wage politicians oppose doctors, police officers, judges, and schoolchildren, while a number of disgruntled continue to grow from day to day. We can assess that Minister Virant has failed to pass the basic principles of collective bargaining. The new proposal for a collective agreement law is based on the principle that the conclusion of contracts between representatives of employers and workers as parties to negotiations is free and voluntary, as also contained in the Convention of the International Labour Organisation No. 98 already ratified by Slovenia. This means that the state must establish such conditions as will allow free and voluntary negotiations. A discussion was opened in the professional public and in the context of the examination itself on the home working body, mainly on two issues. Only trade unions or trade unions, on the one hand, and employers and employers or employers' associations, on the other hand, may conclude after the proposed collective agreement. This raises the question whether, when collective agreements can be negotiated and concluded, only those employers who have voluntary membership do not violate the fundamental principle that negotiations are free and voluntary, which in our view means that they are attended by all those who have their bodies elected in a democratic way. This is why we ask ourselves that in Slovenia we have several associations, chambers with statutory mandatory membership, and now they will not be able to participate in collective bargaining procedures on the part of employers. The fact is that international instruments in this area only lay down the duty to ensure freedom and voluntary negotiations between workers' and employers' organisations, which does not mean that organisations must have voluntary membership. The second issue that remains open, in our view, is the role and position of the workers' councils in collective bargaining at entrepreneurship level. In companies where there is a union, negotiations take place between the company's management and the company's union. But where there is no union, there is a problem and negotiations or dialogue are impossible. Otherwise, the law contains a guardian and workers in such companies cannot have less favourable rights and working conditions than those laid down in the collective agreement for this area. But it is the government that must, through its mechanisms, create conditions that will allow free and voluntary negotiations. He doesn't create them in these cases. In the LDS, we will support the proposal for a law, although we believe that the proposed law unnecessarily excludes some parties in negotiations that have so far been able to participate to a large extent and help to ensure that Slovenian workers are 100 % covered by collective agreements, which ensures a sufficient level of coverage for workers and employers. With successful collective negotiations, which has been a feature in the last ten years, we have avoided unnecessary conflicts between employers and workers, and thus economic damage, which is bad for both sides and, consequently, for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u63	Thank you. My fellow Member, Mr Matjaž Han, will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Government Representative, National Assembly! The Collective Contracts Act has been coordinated by the social partners for about ten years. Finally, they were able to harmonise it to the extent that this law was prepared for submission to the National Assembly. For Social Democrats, negotiating between social partners is one of the foundations of a modern social state. The level of consensus reached between the social partners is also one of the most important criteria when we judge the content of the law and decide whether or not to support it. Unfortunately, in this government's mandate, we have often witnessed the Government's ignorant attitude towards the social partners, as well as the civil society and professional public stakeholders. It is too much to explain that, as a rule, the opposition's arguments and proposals are trampled on by a well-oiled voter's 'valuer'. The Coalition and most ministers understand cooperation with stakeholders and experts only as information on planned changes. However, the collective bargaining law must say that in this case there is an exception which is welcome. At the meeting of the parent labour body, several issues were raised that are related to the development of industrial democracy in our country. In particular, the role of the Council of Workers in the collective bargaining process was highlighted, especially in companies where no representative trade union was organised. The question is sensitive between the saints of workers and trade unions. When considering the law at the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, unfortunately there was no convergence of views on this point. Therefore, the proposal for a law in this part remains unchanged. We want more dialogue in the Social Democrats Group, as well as in other matters, because we believe that enhanced cooperation can contribute to better results, especially in terms of worker protection. However, we do not want to assume the role of an arbitrator or impose solutions that he does not accept. Although we are not sure that all the solutions in the bill are ideal, we understand them as a result of the agreement between the social partners and therefore we accept them. We hope that the implementation of the law will help strengthen the partnership between workers and employers and that social dialogue in Slovenia will rise to a higher level. However, we would also like the law to help strengthen trade unions on the one hand and also the employers' association on the other, although the latter, with the government proposal for a company law, do not show the best. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the missed opportunity to at least temporarily resolve the problem of co-ordination in institutions. This requirement is based on decisions of the Constitutional Court and the possibility of resolving the issue in the law is also referred to Article 110 in the transitional provisions in the law on the participation of employees in management. Unfortunately, even at this point, the coalition was not prepared to listen to our proposals, as usual. Therefore, we can only hope that the government will deal with this issue as soon as possible. In the Social Democrats Group, we will support the proposed collective bargaining law despite open issues and missed opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u65	Thank you for the report. Emissary colleague mag. France Capuder will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The purpose of the Collective Contracts Act is to determine the parties in the negotiation, content, hierarchy of collective agreements and the conclusion process and the subsequent approach to the collective agreement, its form, general and widespread validity and the termination of the collective agreement, the peaceful resolution of collective disputes and the recording and publication of collective agreements. The proposed law is based on the fundamental principle that collective bargaining should be free and voluntary. Therefore, the law does not provide for compulsory collective bargaining, does not prescribe the mandatory content of collective agreements, nor does it lay down the types of collective agreements and the levels at which they are to be concluded. All of this would affect the will of the parties and prevent the conclusion of a contract from occurring at all times and only where the parties have the will and interest of both parties. The parties' autonomy is therefore one of the main leaders of the new legal arrangements in this area. The proposed material is the result of a long-term work and harmonisation of the bill, with the social partners reaching a coordinated solution to the legislative proposal, indicating the willingness of this government, particularly the Minister of State of Drobnic, to negotiate with the social partners. The Committee raised the question whether trade unions could be negotiated or could be negotiated instead with employers. In particular, in cases where there is no union in the company, I would personally think it would be wise to engage as a partner in the collective agreement talks as an interlocutor to employers who are democratically elected workers' representatives. It is not necessarily the working world, but the democratically elected representatives of the workers. Regrettably, the harmonised draft law in the first indent of Article 2 explicitly states that "collective contracts are concluded by trade unions or trade unions as a party on the side of workers and workers and employers and employers or trade unions as a party on the side of workers and workers and employers and employers' associations as customers on the side of employers." Such, however, as a result of the negotiations between trade unions between the partners of the harmonised Article 2 dictatorship, it prevents negotiations between representatives of workers outside the trade union. In these cases, the trade union comes as a negotiator to the company from outside, and in such cases it often does not know the situation in this company. And that could make the solutions in the collective agreement worse. Nevertheless, in New Slovenia we will take into account the agreement of the social partners and we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u67	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Member Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u68	Thank you very much again for your word. The new Labour Relations Act governs labour relations almost exclusively and in an individual sense, while collective negotiations are already left to the provisions of the Collective Contracts Act on the basis of the old labour law, and therefore, given the existing practice, which, of course, has a basis in inadequately defined laws that allow for the poor or even non-implementation of collective agreements concluded, we need a collective agreement law that will re-establish a sufficiently solid basis for the voluntary conclusion of curtains between the parties to the contract. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that some basic starting points or basis for voluntary collective bargaining should be more specifically laid down by the Labour Relations Act. The fundamental mission or purpose of the proposal for a collective agreement law should be to establish the basis for a genuine partnership between employers and employees based on mutual trust, which is particularly applicable to lower-level collective agreements or collective agreements at a lower level, such as an enterprise contract. The conclusion of a collective agreement can only be made on a voluntary basis, and therefore dialogue between the parties is necessary and some kind of basis for a contract to be implemented in practice also in accordance with its purposes, so it is essential that, to the greatest extent possible, the social partners on key issues are agreed upon and harmonised at the time the draft law is drawn up, provided that these agreements are in many ways taking place at all too imaginative levels, which in the practice of direct partnership between workers and employers in the company do not achieve the desired or expected results. At least sometimes those who have little more experience in this area do not achieve any results at all. It is precisely because of this fact that we are in the Parliamentary Group of Opinions, and we firmly believe that in collective negotiations we should be given the opportunity and the right as parties to the conclusion of a contract also to the Councils of Workers, who are practically the only elected representatives of workers or employees, that the original mission of trade unions on this issue is not diminishing in any way; indeed, in certain cases, this would reduce their completely monopolistic position, which is already socially harmful at certain times. At least in companies where the union is not organised at all, in order to achieve the rights and expectations of workers, they should be represented in collective negotiations with the employer by their preferred representative, which is the Council of Workers, because in such cases issues concerning the content of collective agreements are now addressed by a general act adopted by the employer under the Labour Relations Act. On this issue, the drafter of the bill in Article 11 went even so far as to allow the parties to the contract, which can only be a trade union and an employer, to provide that certain individual rights can only apply to members of the trade union, regardless of whether they are only 10% or less among employees in the company, and when we do not give the opportunity to achieve similar rights to all other employees through the labour councils as a party to the collective event. We are also not entirely convinced that the applicant's approach has been completed in the sense that a certain association that does not rely on voluntary membership, but that the parties to this association can voluntarily agree to introduce compulsory membership due to certain public powers that such an association cannot appear as a party to collective bargaining. We don't think that's good. This issue should already be addressed at a fundamental level by the Labour Relations Act, but unfortunately, the monopolistic pressure of trade union centres at the time of its adoption was too high and the basis could not be reached in the concept of collective bargaining. Nevertheless, the parliamentary group will support the proposal for a collective agreement law in a given situation of possible bargaining as a good agreement between the social partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u69	Thank you, you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the assembly will vote on Tuesday, 4 April of this year, within the framework of the point of vote. This concludes this agenda item. Government representatives thank you for being here. Thank you. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infringements by Short Procedure. In doing so, I would like to inform you that we have the expected 50 minutes for a joint debate. The proposal was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on offences is intended primarily for the effectiveness of prosecution of offences and for ensuring greater enforceability of sanctions imposed for offences. The amendment also increases the flexibility of the regulation of certain penalties for offences or their consequences with a specific case in view of the characteristics of the particular area and addresses issues related to the introduction of the euro as new monetary units in the Republic of Slovenia. The current Act on Offences, which introduced an important reform of criminal law in the Republic of Slovenia, is also a commitment to the current government as the institution of the executive branch. In this context, a specific monitoring project, the implementation of this law, has been established at the Ministry of Justice. This law has been applied since 1.1.2005 and, on the basis of it, certain shortcomings in the rules in force have also been identified which affect the effectiveness of the prosecution of offences. In the context of amendments and additions aimed at greater efficiency, the following areas are covered. A more appropriate order for payment, a more effective enforcement insurance, a mandatory test of the decision of the criminal authority following an application for judicial protection, an extension of the possibility of legal aid in the hearing of the accused is proposed, simplification of the ordinary court procedure with regard to the justification of the judgment and the area of international cooperation between the authorities for the infringement proceedings, both in the swift and the ordinary court proceedings. In addition, this amendment contains amendments and additions that increase the flexibility of the law of infringements to the requirements created by substantive legislation in all areas of legal regulation, which in practice creates very diverse situations, which are not always in a comparable situation. In the interests of greater balance, it is proposed to introduce criminal liability for an individual who carries out an activity on his own, to further amend the way in which road traffic is regulated and the criminalisation of road traffic points and to make more detailed arrangements for the termination of the driving licence in the procedural sense or to prohibit its use in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia for foreigners. In addition to these amendments, this draft law also covers provisions that regulate more comprehensively the procedure for the sentencing of prisons and work for the general benefit. Furthermore, provisions that eliminate confusion and doubt in the application of the rules in force, such as the prioritisation of criminal proceedings prior to the infringement proceedings, the payment of the fine by hand, the imposition of a reminder together with the foreign sanctions. Due to changes in the personal data protection regime, it is also proposed to harmonise the offence law with the new Personal Data Protection Act. Since the law on infringements is of a systemic nature, it is also necessary, in accordance with the plan for the introduction of the euro adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to adapt the provisions of this law in particular with regard to the provision of fines for offences laid down by other laws, regulations and decrees of self-government local communities. The bill also contains all the provisions necessary for such a change in the tolar amounts to the euro. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u71	Thank you for further explanation. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. President Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to all representatives of the Ministry and fellow Members! At its 18th meeting, as a working mother, our committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on offences. In addition to the Ministry of Justice and Legal Services, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia were invited to the meeting. In his supplementary explanation, the representative of the applicant, State Secretary Robert Marolt, said that since the entry into force of the Offences Act in 2003, this proposal of his third novel, which, like the previous one, is intended primarily to increase the effectiveness of the infringement proceedings, irrespective of the type of procedure in which the offence is decided. In presenting the opinion of this service, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that their written proposals and their written comments were largely taken into account by the amendments proposed by the Committee, except in certain articles in which the prescribed fines in the Tolar amounts are replaced by the amounts fixed in euro. The legislative and legal service has given its opinion that such an arrangement is expected and planned, but at the time of the adoption of this law there is still a future uncertain fact, which they consider to be somewhat premature. However, the applicant explained that the proposed provision is a consequence of our country's decision to take the euro as a new form of the official monetary unit and to avoid subsequent amendments to the sectoral legislation, including the rules on infringements, he decided to adjust the rules in advance. Tolar questions, as the current official monetary unit in our country, are adequately addressed in transitional provisions. According to Article 47 of the Legislative and Legal Service, the possibility of enforcement of the decision is somewhat extended, irrespective of the gravity of the offence, which has so far been the criterion of access, for the admissibility of enforcement of the decision before its jurisdiction. This was also answered by the bill's proposer. In his view, this solution is justified as that provision stems mainly from the desire to increase the effectiveness of the infringement proceedings, given that the applicable enforcement arrangements did not allow this to be sufficiently possible. Furthermore, from the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the issue of the exclusive competence of the Regional Court in Celje, concerning the issue and issue of a decision prohibiting the use of a driving licence for foreigners, was also raised. The applicant explained that if there is no residence in the Republic of Slovenia, it is not possible to determine, by means of the general rules on local competence, which court could be competent to decide on the termination of the driver’s licence. It is therefore appropriate, from an efficiency point of view, to establish one single competent court for such cases. This can also avoid any conflict of jurisdiction. The draft law was also given an opinion by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia on the political system from which the Commission supports the law. The Committee also adopted some of its amendments and, in the end, supported all the proposed articles of the law and also proposed to this assembly a amendment to the Act on Offences.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u73	Thank you for the report. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u74	President, thank you for your word. Dear government officials! Two years ago, the criminal sphere experienced major and fundamental changes, and we are now faced with an important cycle of changes, which, somehow, we cannot call irrelevant, as they affect both the situation of offenders and the situation of the criminal authorities and their powers, as well as the way in which they decide in court. According to the applicant, these changes would lead to greater effectiveness of the procedures. In the DeSUS Group, however, we note that such an assessment is possible only on the basis of a comprehensive statistical and analytical analysis, which the applicant has not done or was unable to carry out, since this extensive novelty has been submitted very shortly after the start of application, a good year is applied, so that there is not even an established case law that allows for a comprehensive view of the appropriateness of the legal provisions. With regard to the proposed amendment concerning the adjustment of fines from the tolar amounts to the euro, we believe that this provision is unnecessary, as it is in the preparation of a umbrella law on the introduction of the euro, which will simultaneously translate certain tolar amounts into euro in all legal acts. The proposal limits the right of appeal to a higher court and is only allowed against a decision if a higher fine is imposed than the minimum prescribed or forfeiture of a property benefit exceeding 10,000 tolars, which we consider to be constitutionally controversial. As a constitutionally contested provision, we also assess the provision authorising the court to give oral hearing in the absence of the accused. The dispute seems to us in particular in the light of the fact that no exception has been made to cases of justified absence. So far, the principle has been applied that an individual has to expressly waive his right to an active defence before a court, which, as proposed, will not apply if he asks for a stay. With regard to the amended provision on prescribing and pronouncing criminal points, I should mention that separate recruitment and separate expression create a complex and bureaucraticly opaque procedure. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the provision on the periodic repayment of the fine is flawed, since after such a new payment it is not conditioned to be a fair case, but only that the amount of the fine awarded exceeds the three times the minimum amount of the fine. It is clear from this that such repayment is sufficient to inform the perpetrator that he will pay for his meals. We also underestimate the lack of explanation of the financial implications. The proposer estimated that $9.5 million of funding would be needed to upgrade the information systems, which we believe will require higher budgetary resources in the DeSUS Group. In this regard, we also point out that the project team will take about half a year to prepare the relevant project documentation for the upgrading of the information system and the placement of the changes, and the existing information system has not been completed. Despite all these comments, the DeSUS Group will be complemented by a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Offences, as we expect the evaluation of the applicant to be carried out in terms of reducing judicial backlogs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u75	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the SDS Group of Members. Ambassador Rudolf Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Dear government officials, colleagues and colleagues! The area of offences has been subject to a number of recent changes, but all these attempts to regulate have somehow not always produced the expected effects, even more so, they could say that side effects have also occurred. One such is that, due to the banal, say, minimal offence, we have initiated the entire justice system, which also because of inefficiency did not recover a few thousand dollars from the offender, but created a mountain of paper in the form of new judicial records, increased judicial backlogs and, due to a few thousand tolars, initiated procedures that cost ten times and more, and the rationality of the country is such, you might say. In the SDS Group, we do not claim that this was a general model of conduct, but it is possible, it is happening and requires action. Some of this has already been regulated by the last novel we adopted last year, in terms of more efficient recovery through the tax administration. Inadequately more efficient operation and organisation of the tax administration compared to the judicial system, the results are said to be very favourable. However, further improvement in the claim is expected to bring about a new amendment which is the subject of this consideration. In this respect, it is proposed that a mandatory test of the offence order be carried out on the basis of the request for judicial protection already filed by the criminal authority itself, thereby eliminating the infringements of the law which occurred in the rapid procedure. It is estimated that the courts will take into account only those requests for judicial protection which are unfounded or have been brought against a new decision of the criminal authority, which is intended to reduce the case-law of the courts. This group of measures could be put in place by the envisaged measure, such as the regime where cases are limited when higher courts annul the Court’s judgments are lower, the right first stage and the treatment is returned or returned to the first stage, usually to the same court. Other simplifications of material and process categories are also proposed. An extension of the time limit for the submission of a proposal for the repayment of the fine would be introduced. In order to avoid a decision on such a proposal, other than the minimum amount of the fine, the determination of other conditions shall be waived. However, payment discipline is exacerbated by the fact that default or delay at one meal constitutes the immediate maturity of all unpaid meals. This provision shall be made in advance by the debtors or perpetrators of the offence. The proposal under consideration foresees a number of other minor changes aimed specifically at one objective, namely improving the effectiveness of infringement procedures, irrespective of the type of procedure in which the offence is dealt with. At the same time, this area is to be aligned with the new Personal Data Protection Act. In the SDS, we will support this proposal, while waiting for more radical changes in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u77	Thank you. The position of the parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy will be presented by the Vice-President of Dr Pavlih. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the secretary of state with the entire team, dear colleagues and colleagues, as many of you as are left! Unfortunately, I must say that in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we are opposed to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on offences because it is too much to change the concept of a valid law. The individual solutions that the applicant has written in the draft law are, in our opinion, incomplete and poorly justified. This would require a broader debate, as we have repeatedly pointed out, and in particular an assessment of the effects of the measures so far, as is said in foreign languages, for example, by the regulators and the Pac Assessment. The common point of all changes should be to make the procedures more effective, as the law should allow for a faster handling of matters. These purposes are undoubtedly good, but if they were truly believed in in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, they would certainly be supported by the bill. But it seems incredible that this will really work for a number of reasons, so we cannot do that. For example, the situation entered in the introductory part of the proposal is not in line with the explanation of the individual new articles. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we estimate that the proposed changes may have different effects because they also show different objectives. The law's proposal is extensive, additionally burdened by criminal authorities for their assessment of, quote, disproportionate effects of the current regulation, the limitation of decision-making powers, the end of the quotation or the end of the said syntagma. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, however, we lack reasons and explanations on the basis of which, and for whose benefit or damage, the proportionality has been undermined. We are therefore once again proposing that a broader debate be held to verify the effects of the measures so far and, of course, on the basis of such an analysis, we are ready to discuss whether we accept or support such changes or not. Until this is done, we cannot support these changes, so we will oppose the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u79	Thank you. Ambassador Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. Let me start by repeating the position that I am repeating so that I am bored, but I think it is right that, in each of the laws concerning justice, offences and the rest, which are already under the 2005 law, it should be repeated in the justice cycle. On the contrary, we have been reformed in the National Assembly. That each reform ensures a 100% effect that unfortunately many times this effect does not exist, or at least it is not to a large extent. That, however, we are Members and Members, whether or not Dr Pavlich, when he says to his fellow Members and colleagues, think about the profession or the mission, in a very difficult situation, because even those who have a basic legal education, of course we cannot be specialists in the field of criminal, civil, executive, administrative, procedural, criminal, or any other area, and we must trust the experts that they are consciously proposing good solutions that are supposed to give effect. Unfortunately, once again, it's not like that many times. I am afraid that we are facing a similar problem in this proposal. I would like to say, for reasons of credibility and because many times it is clear to Members and Members that, while you have done what you have done in the previous authorities, our Group of Social Democrats has also had a lot of concerns and questions when the proposed amendment of the criminal system in the previous term has been proposed. We have asked whether the government can assure us that the proposed amendments will indeed increase the effectiveness of the criminal authorities and make work more effective in the courts as well. In doing so, we considered that it was necessary to assess, at least the next question, each reorganisation caused problems and congestion, whether this reorganisation was assessed and conceived. It is not clear how many cases would really have been brought before the courts and how much the courts would have really been burdened with this point, whether the backlog would have really been reduced. It is not clear how effective it would be to give a mandate if there were, why it could not also be brought before the judges for offences. However, if the sentence could not be applied in the event of a prison sentence, since the hearing of the accused is the basis for the protection of human rights, then the question is at all how far the desired objectives would be achieved with this proposal. Even when we finally passed the law, we have assessed that we have not provided sufficient answers to these and many other questions, despite some improvements in the law-making process, and we have acknowledged that we support the law under the assumption of confidence in the proposed solutions. The current government argues that this trust was not justified because after four months of implementation of the law, after the adoption of the abolition, which significantly reduced the fallout - because I think it was about 90,000 cases that were stopped on the basis of the abolition - must go into major changes. These changes are, in the opinion of the profession, although the secretaries of the State have also spoken differently on the home working body, unverified. The expert consultation was not carried out. The paper points out that many proposals are inconceivable, that it is not necessary for them to produce the effects that the government once again provides. I would like to say that, seriously, most seriously, we are counting on clear definitions and we are also counting on the responsibility of the minister or both to argue these solutions, or we have a lot of concerns about the content of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u81	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mojca Kucler Dolinar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u82	A more extensive amendment to the Act on Offences was adopted by the National Assembly in its previous composition in 2003, and applied on 1 January 2005. The application of the law in one and a half years showed that the 2003 reform was not well thought out, which is also reflected in backlogs in the courts and other problems of criminal authorities. The work of the judges for offences has been taken over by the district courts, which are now covered by new criminal records. And if such a pace were to continue at the time of the existing law, the courts would soon be even more burdened, even more suffocated and again put to the issue of amnesty, which cannot be a solution and we do not want it. Therefore, the proposed changes in New Slovenia are seen primarily as a mitigation of the situation in the area of offences and the direction of how to resolve what is optimally resolved at this time. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that there are important changes in the direction of efficiency and speed. In order to reduce the burden of the courts, a mandatory test of the offence decision is proposed if a request for judicial protection is made. The test will be carried out by the criminal authority itself, which decides on the speedy procedure. In addition, simplifications are also proposed in the ordinary proceedings, in particular in cases where the complainants do not provide a remedy. In this case, the Court will not issue a reasoned judgment, which will pass on and contribute to greater efficiency and speed of the courts, without limiting legal certainty and the right to a remedy. In order to achieve a speedy handling of offences, cases shall be limited when the higher court annuls the judgment of the Court of First Instance and brings the case back to that court. The issuing authority will have the opportunity to issue a warning in writing and not only orally. In Novi Slovenija we also support the possibility offered by this law, which will be that the collection of penalty points can also be separated by the categories of driving licences. Moreover, the sanction also gives rise to the termination of the driving licence. It will also be possible to impose a foreign sanction on the penalty points by means of a payment order and, by securing enforcement, it will be possible to suspend other documents and not only travel documents. In Nova Slovenija we also support the extension of the time limit for the submission of a proposal for the payment of the fine by suspending the establishment of specific conditions for the granting of payment of the fine on instalments as the only condition for the amount of the fine imposed. However, in order to ensure adequate payment discipline, it is appropriate and necessary to provide that, in the event of a delay in payment of a single payment instalment, all other unpaid instalments are also paid. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that today's changes have not yet concluded this chapter and the amendments to this law. It will be necessary to further and further study and examine the practice of the last two years and find even more appropriate solutions that will speed up procedures while maintaining a sufficiently high level of legal certainty for citizens. Above all, a thorough revision of the penal policy and sanctions will be necessary, as an example of which would expose the sanction of resilient imprisonment by replacing the fine with a task to the general benefit or benefit of the self-governance of the local community, which is very nice and encouraging, but it is very difficult to carry out in scratch. It is difficult to find institutions that are willing to take people for a relatively short period of time and also to ensure and ensure adequate tasks for them. The Group of Members will support the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u83	Thank you. Ambassador Josip Bajc will present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u84	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Act on Offences, which we are amending today with the novel, came into force before a good year, on 1 January 2005. The Law on Offences, which fully governs the area of offences, is only a good year in use and has clearly in such a short time shown that the law has shortcomings that need to be corrected as soon as possible. In the bill, the competent ministry widely assessed the situation in the area of offences and supported it with numerous figures and statistics. These figures show some progress in addressing the number of violations in the last year, but it should be stressed that the effects of the new law have not been fully demonstrated. The current law on offences has some shortcomings and the proposed amendments to the law are necessary and necessary in our view. As a very positive assessment of the fact that a special working group to monitor the implementation of the law on offences has been established at the Ministry of Justice following the enforcement of the law. The work of this group and the comments of the courts and other institutions on the difficulties they face in carrying out the duties under the law on offences have led to certain changes in the law of review. In view of the way these changes have been prepared, we can believe that the amendment of the law will allow for faster and more effective treatment of all violations. At the same time, the novelty also regulates the issue of tolar fines in relation to the envisaged takeover of the euro as the currency of the Republic of Slovenia from 1.1.2007. The rapid changes in the introduction of the euro are both important and logical. In particular, I would like to point out that we support a more detailed regulation of the procedure for establishing a resilient prison and replacing the fine by performing a specific task for the general benefit or for the benefit of self-government local communities. The latter seems very important to us, since in this way individuals who do not have the means to pay the fine or who do not have the resources to pay the fine, instead of deciding on the fines to be useful work, and at the same time the local self-government community may benefit from this part. We hope that the practice of alternative fine payment will be established over time and that this option will be increasingly exploited. The new law also clearly limits the powers of decision on the speedy or regular judicial procedure and regulates the foreign sanction of road traffic criminal points. As a positive assessment, the amendment borders doubts about the half payment of the fine within a given time frame and the simultaneous application of the legal remedy. The mandatory test of the offence decision, which will be carried out by the criminal authority itself on the basis of the application for judicial protection, will certainly help to deal with the offences more quickly. This will prevent the courts from dealing with cases in which the criminal authority itself will be able to determine that the requirements for judicial protection are justified. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect the proposed law to contribute to a more effective work of criminal authorities and courts, thus helping to eliminate large or excessive backlogs already. Therefore, the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u85	Thank you. To present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group, I invite Member Boštjan Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable all those who are still interested in how each parliamentary group will vote on a certain bill! However, that I will not keep you under too much pressure because I can see that you are looking forward to hearing the vote of the Slovenian National Party, I will tell you that we will not support this bill. But for a number of reasons, and I will not repeat those who spoke before me. That the law is bad, she found, I think, already the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because, as far as I know, it is also preparing changes to the law that we have before us today. According to my information, you found that out very quickly. You have also found the introduction of the euro as a substitute for the tolar in the introduction of speedy fines. You've also found, in my opinion, that it is better to regulate these things with one system law than in every law individually. Finally, it must be said that you have gone in a very strange way to solve one of the reasons why this law is to be confirmed today is to reduce judicial backlogs. That's what you did in the Offences Act. Although the Slovenian National Party has been offering you a systemic solution to reduce backlogs for some time. Because of this, as I have already mentioned, we will not support the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. Zagorec. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendment and Supplementation to the Central Population Register Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u88	Good afternoon. Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members, Members, colleagues, colleagues. The applicable Central Registry Act was adopted in January 1999. We now have the basis for a more modern regulatory regulation of the area of registration of the population, as there is one place where provisions on personal identification numbers, the content of the central registry, data sources, the obligations of participants in the data flow, the management of the database, and the use of data are collected. Amendments to the current law are therefore only necessary in order to comply with the law on offences. It is necessary to amend the provisions of the law laying down penalties for offences and to bring them into line with this law, which is to replace monetary penalties with fines. The bill further establishes the Ministry of the Interior as the body responsible for overseeing the implementation of this law, which will comply with the law on offences to be considered a criminal body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u89	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u90	Thank you, President. A nice greeting also to the representative and the Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior! Our committee considered the draft law at its 18th regular session. The representative of the applicant stated in the supplementary explanation that amendments to the current Central Registry Act were necessary in order to harmonise the law with the Act on Offences. It is necessary to amend the provisions of the law laying down penalties for offences and to provide for a criminal authority. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that their service had examined, in terms of its tasks, proposals for amendments and had no comments on them. Members and members of the Committee have supported the proposed amendments to the Central Registry Act and we propose it to this Assembly as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u91	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Kokalj has the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u92	Dear Government Representatives, Honourable President of the National Assembly. New Slovenia's Parliamentary Group - The Christian People's Party will support the proposal for a central registry law, as already mentioned by the president of the working body, only aligns the law with the law on offences, which lays down penalties for offences and the criminal authority. And that's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Franz Kangler. He's not here. Mr Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! Given that the amendment to the Central Population Register Act relates only to the harmonisation of the Offences Act, as it concerns the enforcement of the provisions of Article 223 of the Offences Act, the amendment, which has only three articles, changes only the word connection of the 'Money Penalty' to 'deep' and defines the body responsible for overseeing the enforcement of the provisions of the Law, that is, the Ministry of the Interior, we will support the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group to amend the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u95	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading of the bill. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Period of the day - on a defensive proposal for a law on amendments to the law on the registration of residents. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! A similar explanation will be given to this proposal as it used to be. The current law on the registration of residence was adopted in 2001 and, based on the constitutional right of an individual to freedom of movement and choice of residence, the founder settled all questions relating to the application and cancellation of permanent and temporary residence in order to provide an accurate record of the actual state of residence. Amendments to the current law are therefore only necessary in order to comply with the law on offences. It is necessary to amend the provisions of the law laying down penalties for offences and to bring them into line with this law, which is to replace monetary penalties with fines. Furthermore, it is necessary to designate a criminal body, namely the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs and Police. The Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs is therefore responsible for overseeing the implementation of those provisions of the law, which are defined in criminal provisions as offences related to the application and cancellation of permanent and temporary residence and the application of the change in the title of the apartment and the application of the temporary departure from the country and the return to the country. The competent police are responsible for the supervision of the implementation of the provisions relating to the so-called police application and the related articles of the law. The enforcement of the individual provisions shall be supervised by both criminal authorities, since in these cases there are common provisions relating to both types of applications. The draft law also gives the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia the power to take over all the procedures already initiated under the applicable law in which the proposed amendments and the completion of the decisions on the offence have not yet been issued or have not yet been legally binding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u97	Thank you to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Mag. Ringtone Zinrajh. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u98	The proposal for a law amending the law on residence registration was also addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice at its 18th regular session. The representative of the applicant explained that the basic objective of the law is to harmonise this law with the law on offences, to amend the provisions of the law laying down penalties for offences and to define the body. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Ministry of the Interior has also drawn up a proposal for amendments proposed to the Committee on Admission. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service proposed and stressed that the legislative and legal service had made comments in its opinion, which were all taken into account in the proposals for amendments made by the Ministry of the Interior. Members and members of the committee supported the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u99	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Kokalj will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u100	As already mentioned, the law on the registration of residence is, in fact, only in line with the law on offences, the provisions laying down penalties for offences and the criminal authority, the supervision of implementation is carried out by the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs and the professional supervision is carried out by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the competent authority. However, the competent police is responsible for overseeing the implementation of the provisions relating to the police application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u102	Thank you again, Mr. President. And today we're taping them. The new law on the registration of residence is referred to as the previous law or as the previous amendment to comply with the law on offences, the amendment amends only the word association of monetary penalties into fines and establishes the different authorities responsible for the supervision of the enforcement of the provisions of this law. For it is only a matter of harmonising the law on offences, and in view of that, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u103	Mr Krivec Daniel will present the position of the member of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Amendments to the proposed law amending the law on residence registration are minor but urgently necessary as they are linked to other laws. The law in force is amended as is the number of other laws which contain provisions on penalties for offences, in order to comply with the law on offences. Money penalties must be converted into fines in accordance with Article 223 of the Offences Act. It's a terminological harmonisation. The following amendment means the establishment of a criminal body of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs and Police. The Inspectorate is therefore responsible for overseeing the implementation of those provisions of the law which are defined in criminal provisions as offences related to the application and cancellation of permanent and temporary residence. However, the competent police is responsible for overseeing the implementation of the provisions relating to the so-called police application. The committee responsible adopted, as its own motion, two amendments, which were unanimously adopted by the members. The first is merely a correction of the misrepresentation of paragraph one of the articles; the second was editorial in nature. We support the proposed changes in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. As has already been said in the beginning, these are essential for the law to be in line with other laws, which is essential for its implementation in everyday life.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u105	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the home registry. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Mr. Zinrajh, Secretary of State at the Ministry, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members. On the basis of the 2003 Home Register Act, a home registry was established in March 2005 which provides a basic computerised record of the personal status of citizens and nationals of the Republic of Slovenia and of the births, marriages and deaths of foreigners which took place in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia at the time of the establishment of the register. All data or background facts affecting their personal status from birth to death shall be entered in the Register of Nationals of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendment to the law relating to the content of the entry of individual facts into the register of origin is a result of the adoption of the law on the registration of the same-sex partnership. In accordance with the provisions of this Act, certain information about this community shall be entered in the home register, the constituent part of which is also a register of same-sex partnerships. The proposed amendment also extends the three-year period for the determination and registration of death for persons who have lost their lives immediately after the end of World War II or during World War II. Since the number of those procedures has increased since the adoption of the law and since, in accordance with the Act on Victims of War Violence, the time limit for obtaining status has been abolished, it is also reasonable to extend the deadline for the introduction of those procedures from 3 to 6 years. It is also necessary to amend the law in order to comply with the Act on Offences, which imposes fines instead of fines. At the same time, it is necessary to define the supervision of the implementation of individual provisions of the law. The Internal Affairs Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia is thus competent to supervise the implementation of those provisions of the law which are defined in criminal provisions as offences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u107	Thank you, Mag. Zinrajhu. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u108	The Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law at its 18th regular session. The representative of the applicant stated in the supplementary explanation his basic objective. She also participated in the legislative and legal service and presented the written opinion of their service, in which she pointed in particular to the envisaged resolution of Article 6 of the law, which, by supplementing it, also interfered with another law. Finally, the proposed solution to the Committee's amendment has been slightly changed. The discussion on the articles of the bill and the proposed amendments specifically highlighted the solution whereby the register of same-sex communities is an integral part of the register and not a separate register. The members of the committee agreed with this solution and, as has been said, taking into account the comments of the legislative and legal services, we considered that the approach taken by the proposer in introducing this solution was not the most appropriate one. We therefore supported the amendments of the Committee, which introduce this content in a more legally correct manner. At the end, we voted on all the articles of the proposed law together and adopted it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u109	Thank you, Madam Chairman of the Committee. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. The new law on the register of origin relates to compliance with three laws, namely the law on offences, the law on registration of same-sex partnerships and the law on the protection of personal data. It is therefore only minor amendments to this law. In addition to the change in terminology and monetary penalties that change into fines and the designation of a body to control the implementation of the provisions of the law, the amendment in the home registers will also provide new data on same-sex partnerships. In view of this and non-essential changes, the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposed amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u111	Thank you. Ms Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The mother registry, which is now a computerized database, replaced three hand-run home books, a birth certificate, a marriage book, and a mother book of the dead. He was set up last May. It shall record all data affecting the personal status of citizens from birth to death. Following the adoption of the Law on the Register of Mothers, a law on offences was enacted and a new law on the registration of same-sex partnerships was adopted. In order to comply with those laws, the proposed amendments and amendments to the law are necessary. In order to enforce the law on offences, fines should be imposed in the provisions of the law which provide penalties for offences instead of fines. The supervision of the implementation of individual provisions of the law allowing the establishment of a criminal authority shall be duly determined. In view of the adoption of the law on the registration of the same-sex partnership, the data entered in the register of origin shall be added to the registration and termination of the same-sex partnership. In the debate, the members of the Committee agreed that the register of the same-sex partnership community should be an integral part of the register and not an independent register. In the light of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, they considered that the proposed approach to this provision was not appropriate, which led to the adoption of an amendment to the Committee, which dealt with it in a more legally correct manner. The amendment to Article 16 of the existing law provides that the entry of a parent fact which happens to our national abroad may be entered in the home register, except by a decision, provided that extracts from abroad cannot be obtained. Given that in cases of subsequent registration of the death of a person already dead, it is not possible to register at their request and therefore it is necessary to make the registration by official duty. The amendment to Article 39 of the Law extends the time limit for the procedure for determining and entering death on the basis of an administrative decision of three to six years. The proposed amendments and additions to the Home Register Act are less difficult, but nevertheless very important, since it is important to implement each law successfully in practice that it complies with the rest of the legislation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the proposed solutions seem appropriate, so we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u113	Thank you. Ms Majda Širca will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u114	Thank you. True, it is a minor correction, perhaps even seen as less important, but the act on the table is not so special. It harmonises the law on offences, coordinates the law on registration of the same-sex partner community, but at the same time it is an act by which the Ministry of the Interior corrects the work of the Ministry of Labour. Here it is valid to return one year ago, 22.6.2005 at the 7th session we adopted a law on the registration of the same-sex partnership community which deals with the same-sex partnership and regulates this area, which is restricted by law only to the determination of the registration procedure for the same-sex partnership and the regulation of the property relationship between the partners, and does not regulate what we said in the Liberal Democracy and with the opposition colleagues that it is poorly resolved, flawed. We know that the law on the registration of the same-sex partner community does not provide for the rights to neither care nor care and care in cases of diseases, not property and other rights, which would also be based on social protection reasons. We did not say that this law was bad in this area, but also where the Ministry of the Interior today is correcting it with this harmonisation law. In the debates, we highlighted the question of why the conclusion or registration of the same-sex partnership community takes on a symbolic level great importance. We still argue that the term registration is unacceptable because it is a relationship between same-sex communities, the partnership of two people who freely decide to live together, and the use of the term registration is associated with the registration of things and not of people. We complemented at that time to prevent the conclusion of the community from taking place in some section of the administrative unit behind the counter, where the partner would simply fill out the forms. With the supplement, we wanted to introduce the form of keeping the register, as is the case with the register of origin, fully follow the requirements for digitisation of public data, databases and the possibility of registration throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, irrespective of the permanent residence of the partners. At the same time, we assigned the task of managing the procedure and entering the register to the parents. Unfortunately, our additions and additions to the Social Democrats at the time due to the perceptions of the ruling coalition that we wish to formalise the marriage for the conclusion or registration of the community were not accepted. Today, however, we are faced with amendments to the Home Register Act, which stipulates that, as a result of the adoption of the law on the registration of same-sex partnerships in the home registry, data on same-sex partnerships will also be entered in the future. All data affecting their personal status shall be entered in the register of origin for nationals of the Republic of Slovenia, and this shall also apply to the conclusion or registration of the community. And the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership Community provides in the transitional provisions that the Minister responsible for work, family and social affairs shall issue a Community Registration Rules within six months of the entry into force of the Act. It will be a year now, we know that the regulation is already ready, but the minister must wait for the adoption of this law that we have today on the table. But because of his exclusive, ministerial, exclusive views on homosexuals, which he treated and defined as a medical problem, he probably also wanted to legitimize discrimination against same-sex orientations at the symbolic level. Since I am running out of time, all I can say is that today what we've found a year ago is not possible, because it's the same matter. The law is applicable to support, as it allows same-sex partnerships to register their relations with the help of a rule that is probably not so incontrovertible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u115	Mrs. Shirca, thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the previous mandate, we have also made a great deal of efforts in this regard to regulate a particular personal situation that would be expressed in the possibility of recognising the same-sex partnership. As has been the case for the Social Democrats, the amendment of the Law on the Register of Mothers is not small, but I am pleased that the Secretary of State has resolved with the added explanation the shortcomings that have occurred in the introduction to this Act when it is stated that it is only in the amendment of the law to comply with two of them, in fact it is a matter of harmonisation with three laws. Certainly not just technical harmonisation. Now, allow us to carry out the thoughts or comments that we have, despite the fact that the Social Democrats will support this amendment of the law, and where we see that any further change can be discussed. The mother register is defined in the introduction as a computer-controlled database in which the parent facts and other facts set out in the law are entered. The register of births, marriages and deaths of foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia has been a personal record of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia since the establishment of the register of origin. This was set up a bad year ago and there is now a new legal fact that, in our opinion, does not cover all personal circumstances. In Article 4 of the current law, I refer to Article 2 of the Act as a reference to the fact that, in the event that an extract from a foreign homebook cannot be obtained, the birth, marriage or death in a home registry in the Republic of Slovenia may exceptionally be entered on the basis of a decision of the competent authority, if there is evidence of the fact of origin. I believe that the origins of the parental facts include special circumstances. This situation may also be the conclusion of a marriage, which can be done in some countries of the European Union, and this conclusion of the marriage of same-sex partners is a new personal circumstance that an individual could enforce under law if it were also duly recorded. It is now written down to register only births, marriages, or death. In this case, did the legislator consider that the term marriage also covers the marriage relationship mentioned now between the same-sex partners? That's possible in Sweden. Did he also cover the personal circumstances that a citizen or citizen of Slovenia would have changed if he had decided to change the sex? What about adoption in another country, whether in the European Union or in another country? We therefore believe that all things are not yet thought through and that, given the circumstances that have arisen, it will be necessary to consider how to cover this on behalf of so many times the highlighted equality before the law. If we have enacted certain circumstances by law, adopted them, even though they have existed before, regardless of the form in which we have adopted them, then this should affect all levels and in all cases. I hope that it will also be confirmed that there will also be some registration of the same-sex partnership, which has not yet happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kokalj will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u118	In view of the fact that the Home Register Act primarily pursues the objective of compliance with other legislation, this is the law on offences, the law on the registration of the same-sex partner community and the law on the protection of personal data, we do not believe that the law makes substantial substantive changes. I may only point out the entry of a parent fact that happens to our national abroad, which may be entered into the register of origin by way of a decision, if it is not possible to obtain extracts from abroad. Article 39 is also amended as already mentioned today, extending the time limit for the determination and registration of death on the basis of an administrative decision. The text of the amendment, after which the register of same-sex communities is an integral part of this register, was also harmonised on the home committee itself. The New Slovenia Group will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u119	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE HEALTH INSPECTION LAW. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Mr. Andrej Bručan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u120	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! With a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Inspection Act, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to delete Chapter 2 of the Health Inspection Act, Guidelines, Opinions, Project Conditions and Consent and Article 2 of the Act. The second section or Article 2 of the Health Inspection Act now states that, in order to protect human health, the inspection body shall issue guidelines for planning and opinions on spatial acts and project conditions and agreement on project solutions for sites covered by Article 1 of the Act, concerning issues in which these facilities or activities are carried out on them, under the supervision of that body. The deletion of the second chapter or Article 2 is proposed because the role of the operator of the regulation of the premises or of the co-rapporteur represented by the present provision of Article 2 of the Law can only be performed by the administrative authority, not by the authority responsible for the inspections and also by the inspection of the facilities and activities. However, the administrative authority must have a basis for the role of the space regulator or the co-ordinator in the relevant material rules, otherwise it is not in a position to play such a role. The new administrative order requires the inspection body to waive control approaches based on the control of the location of the establishment in the premises, the accommodation of the premises and, in particular, on the control of working conditions. The issue of these guidelines and opinions, the agreement in the area of spatial regulation and the construction of buildings has become disputed by changes in the legal order of control for the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, both because of the fact that these tasks do not fall within the scope of the inspection body, as well as because the Inspector agrees in advance with a construction and thus assumes primary responsibility for the arrangements which the operators have and cannot fully assume. In view of the above, it is proposed to delete the second chapter and Article 2 of the Act by means of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Inspection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u121	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ljubo Germić, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Thus, at its 12th regular meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Inspection Act as the working body of 9.3.2006. This law was examined following a reduced procedure and the draft law was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which made comments on Article 2 of the bill and the introductory explanation to the law was given by Mr State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Dojan Marusič. Within the time limit set by the Rules of Procedure, only one amendment and the amendment of the four coalition groups was tabled to the draft law, as set out in Article 2, this amendment was also confirmed by the Committee, as confirmed by all the other articles of the bill. A complementary proposal and the text of the law is under consideration today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u123	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u124	Mr President, honourable Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Inspection Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and we will therefore support it. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the tasks or responsibilities of the inspection body are so important that I will list some areas in which the health inspectorate exercises supervision in order to protect public health. These include infectious diseases, health adequacy of food, food and water, cosmetic products, toys, tobacco and tobacco products, alcohol restriction, waste management in health activities, and other areas. In the current law governing health inspection, other tasks are included within the competence of the inspection authority, such as issuing guidelines for the planning of opinions on spatial acts in the procedures for regulating the premises and setting project conditions or issuing agreement on project solutions in the building processes, which clearly falls within the scope of administrative tasks. Comments were also received from traders, businessmen, craftsmen, private health workers and others who had warned that in practice there were significant delays in reviewing the appropriateness of the project documentation regarding health and other conditions for newly built or adapted commercial, storage or production facilities. Such conduct by the competent national authorities responsible for the issue of agreement on project solutions shall be shown in a number of subsequent investment corrections of the buildings already built, or these business entities face the issue of the subsequent provision of a substantial amount of additional funding intended to ensure the adequacy of public health facilities. As stated in the Group of Members, it is estimated that such a change is necessary, in particular the decommissioning of the inspection body of administrative tasks, and we will therefore also support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u126	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Although the proposal for a law supplementing the Health Inspection Act is a law with few articles or amendments, it nevertheless brings certain amended innovations in the field of the competences of the health inspection department. In one article, the law removes the competence of an inspection to issue guidelines for planning and opinions on spatial acts in spatial management procedures. In this way, the inspection service was given the authority solely to carry out the inspection tasks, which is also its primary purpose and represents a burden for it. The second, including an extremely important change, relates to the possibility of deploying working time outside the regular framework. This amendment shall ensure that inspection tasks are carried out outside the regular period of that working body carrying out the inspection, which shall contribute to the continued readiness of inspectors, and shall also contribute to greater efficiency. We have no comments in the Slovenian Democratic Party on the proposal of the law, and we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u128	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary with a co-worker! The amendment of the Health Inspection Act, which has only two articles, is now subject to correction by a valid law. The deletion of the provisions laid down in the applicable law governing guidelines, opinions, projects, conditions and consent in Article 2 which give the health inspection tasks and are, by their content and purpose, contrary to the role of inspection services, not only necessary, but essential. The current arrangements for health inspection in addition to inspection tasks also require the performance of certain other administrative tasks. The issuing of guidelines and opinions on spatial acts and building procedures is certainly not part of the health inspection work. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Inspection Act will thus ensure that health inspectors carry out only tasks that follow the principles of modern inspection. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u129	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the Conversion of the University of Maribor. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We do not have representatives of the Government or the Ministry of Higher Education. Does anyone want us to wait? No, no, no. Then we move on to further consideration, namely the proposal for a decree, which was considered by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the working body of the mother. There is also no representative of the parent working body, so we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the members of the groups. Mr Klavora will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u130	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the proposal for a resolution on amendments and amendments to the decision on the reshaping of the University of Maribor, and we will support it. We view the proposed changes as positive because they give the possibility to create two new members, namely the Faculty of Science and Mathematics and the Faculty of Philosophy. Let us note that both faculties for the development of the university itself and also for the development of the whole city and region are extremely important, as we believe that more attention is needed primarily in the science and technology direction of the study. Members of our Group also agree with the change in the redrafting of our decrees, as it allows for a simpler and, above all, faster process, which also increases the autonomy of our universities. With regard to the additional study reports, however, we assess that the consent of the founder is essential, as such a decision also affects the allocation of funds from the State budget. In view of the changes they have also agreed to at universities, we will support the amendments and amendments to the decision in the DeSUS Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u131	Thank you. Ms Eva Irgl will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the decree on the reshaping of the University of Maribor. The main amendment proposed in the proposal for a decree is that additional study areas in individual university members, with the consent of the founder, will be determined by the university in the statute and no longer in the decree, which will allow for a faster start of the implementation of the study programmes in the new fields of study. This will make the process of accepting changes faster, as it will no longer be necessary for the State Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to decide in additional study areas, but only for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me also mention that this motion for a decree also establishes two new members: the Faculty of Science and Mathematics and the Faculty of Philosophy. The amendments and additions to the resolution on the reshaping of the University of Maribor will also bring greater autonomy to the university's study areas, which we are also working on in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Thus, I can say that in the SDS Group we will be happy to support the proposal for a decree on amendments and amendments to the decision on the reshaping of the University of Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Franc Capuder will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. The activities of the university or individual colleges are defined in their decrees on the establishment or transformation, and these decrees have been confirmed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The same adoption procedures shall also apply in the case of amendments to those decisions. However, changes are needed when the study programmes of individual colleges are complemented or modified within the university. The professional part of the change process is long before it comes to government approval, and it takes place on the basis of individual colleges and higher education councils. Such a proposal must be adopted by the Government and sent to the National Assembly as the procedure for amending the decision ends with the adoption. The amended decree simplifies the process of modifying the study programmes of each faculty in such a way that each university has the right to extend its activity directly by amending its statutes, of course under a transitional professional procedure. Such an amended statute must only be approved by the government, which significantly shortens the process of amending the programmes. In Novi Slovenija we will support amendments and additions to the decree on the transformation of the University of Maribor, because the points for amending the other two decrees are separate from this item of the agenda at this point, and I say that in Novi Slovenija we will also support the remaining two amendments to the decrees for the University of Ljubljana and the University of Primorska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr Janez Kramberger will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The decree amending and supplementing the decision amending the University of Maribor refers to two areas, the establishment of two new members of the university and the procedure for the establishment of additional study areas. Further study areas will no longer need to be defined in the university reshaping decree, which means that they will no longer be decided by the National Assembly. The new decree states that additional study areas shall be established in the statute of the University and with the consent of the founder, i.e. with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We view the proposed solution in our client as good and positive. On the one hand, such a solution strengthens the autonomy of the university and, more importantly, ensures that procedures are reduced to determine additional study areas. This will increase the flexibility of the university or its members as well as further development. All modern trends aim to increase the flexibility of universities with as many interdisciplinary programmes as possible. Such goals are also pursued by the Bologna process, which has recently been very up to date. We believe that the changes we are adopting today will also contribute to the faster development of universities. A change in the procedure for determining additional study areas is also a reason for amending the decision on the transformation of the University of Ljubljana and Primorska. With this change, the National Assembly loses its role in determining additional fields of study, but we believe that other positive effects of these changes are so important that there are no reasons why they would not support this decision. It is especially gratifying that this decree gives the University of Maribor two new members, namely the Faculty of Science and Mathematics and the Faculty of Philosophy. This proves that the Faculty of Maribor is also developing and becoming increasingly competitive in the Slovenian higher education area. The establishment of new colleges is not only important for the part of Slovenia where colleges are created, but for the whole country. New faculties and new programmes also mean additional competition, which forces existing faculties and programmes to continuously improve and progress. Colleagues and colleagues, Members of the Slovenian People's Party will be supported by a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the decree on the transformation of the University of Maribor. Since these are the same or similar changes in the case of a decree for the University of Ljubljana and the University of the Sea, we will also support the decree that will follow at the following points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State! Indeed, part of the truth was raised in the presentation of the other views of the parliamentary groups, in particular the positive ones, for the first time in the case of a decision on amendments and additions to the decision on the transformation of the University of Maribor for an act of which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing to establish two new faculties, namely, the Faculty of Science and Mathematics and the Faculty of Philosophy. Within the National Party, we believe and hope that you believe in education, you believe in knowledge, and that in fact only knowledge can make our country a more attractive, more competitive, shorter moment that will make Slovenia stronger. I would also like to highlight the other two new developments that have been partially exposed. For the first time, the amendment to the programme is confirmed by the statute. Under this word, the Ministry or Government of the Republic of Slovenia attaches autonomy, which is a very pleasant word for the ear, and the question is what lies behind this autonomy in the decree before us today. As far as autonomy is concerned, the government in the Republic of Slovenia, in connection with it, also talks about the pace of events, stating that the matter of transformation or a new moment in the context of the operation of the university from three months could move into developments and into realization within one week. It's any way to say hello. All the three arguments that I have listed and that you have put all the speakers before me are positive and no one, especially the logical Mariborian, can oppose them. I regret that you have not raised funding issues within the other parliamentary groups. The financing is now transferred exclusively and to the full domain of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia through this act. Whether that makes sense or not, the government will say that it is an operational body, that it also specifies the content. That's what he's holding on one side. I would be much more pleased, and I believe that in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, even if we gave the university autonomy in the area of financing. Why, gentlemen and ladies, who have spoken before me, say what the university or new faculties will have, how good it is, how generous the country or government of the Republic of Slovenia is in all areas of choice of conditions, of choice of direction or study when it comes to financing, the government of the Republic of Slovenia will keep this very stepmotherly for itself. We all know that the entire content begins and ends in funding. Therefore, to seal our eyes and speak and mark the act before us today with a fine ten means to hold our figs in our pocket or figs behind our backs. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had this purpose, as represented by it today or as we have heard from a number of Members' groups, then autonomy or the part leading to the easier acquisition of funds would have been defined in the decree. The working body has repeatedly been exposed to a bad feeling, let's say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wants to enter the educational process within our country by exempting the legislator from this process, i.e. the National Assembly, which you all welcomed before me, and the powers, especially the most important authority, have assumed solely for yourself. We're talking about funding. We all know that most recently, people who are very close to the current government have developed desires, we also have a few examples in reality, after the establishment of small colleges or universities of a purely private nature. I ask, perhaps this is exclusively the purpose of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this way to the University of Maribor, on the one hand, offering a generous hand in terms of, from now on, your statutes will be the most important acts. The acts may be your most important, but the financial means for the implementation of these acts will not be assured by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia because it will say that there will be no funding at that time for the implementation of the programme. Meanwhile, in the immediate vicinity of the establishment - let me give you a name for some visible policy of your block, such as that of Primorska, Jambrek University. The question is whether it makes sense for us to leave the current government policy so much power, not only in the area of financing, but also in the area of private colleges. And the question whether all of this will be pursued by the objective for which we all took up our discussions at the beginning of our discussions, so that knowledge counts for something, behaviour and education. However, according to my assessment and according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, education, behaviour, knowledge should not be subject to the current government policy, whatever is gained through the educational process. Once again, I regret to say that I regret that in this decree, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, if it were purely intended, has not given up autonomy in the area of financing as well. In other words, if autonomy has given to the university in the field of programme change, it should also give autonomy in the field of financial change. I am afraid that the purpose of the government is elsewhere - the purpose of the government is in what I have said, this is in the establishment of private universities, with separate political criteria for education, with political criteria for obtaining professional titles and what is in fact most important to the government, with scissors and canvas around funding, which programmes will be financed or not. In the National Party and I personally act, if we forget the bad feelings I'm predicting, I can't object. Given that the act itself in the basic phase speaks of the Faculty of Science and Mathematics and the Faculty of Philosophy, it is to be welcomed. I am sorry, however, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, if it has taken half a step, has not taken the whole step. Then I could turn to the minister and congratulate the entire government, because I think that this would be what our society wants in terms of education. Half-baked solutions, especially such as these, can sooner harm the future development of our country than not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u139	Thank you. There is a general debate on the proposal for a decree. Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Ljubo Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I am sorry to have missed the presentation of the Group's position on the unusual timing and pace of today's work. I would like to take this opportunity to present the position of the Group of Members in the context of the debate on the decree. First of all, I would like to point out that in the Liberal Democracy, the goal in Slovenia is to create a knowledge-based society as a priority goal. That is why we have also acted in this direction throughout our lifetimes, and as a result of such activities has been created in the fields of education, education and school legislation over the past ten years. There was a lot of history, since this area was almost completely reorganized. As a result of this fact, it is clear today that only minor corrections are needed to build on the regulation of this area. That is how we today have in the legislative procedure decisions on amendments and additions, decisions on the transformation of all these universities. I would now touch on the decree and the content of the decree amending and supplementing the decisions on the reshaping of the University of Maribor. At the beginning of my presentation and discussion, I would like to draw attention to the important change made by the above-mentioned decree, and it is included in the text of the decrees for both the coastal and the Ljubljana University. In the past, a decision establishing universities laid down that the study areas to be carried out at the university and the establishment of university members should be laid down in the relevant Article of the founding decision. Thus, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia was the one who, in the last instance, decided on the fields of study and had the opportunity to influence the quality of the selection of study areas, while also taking up the obligation to provide the necessary financial resources in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for their implementation. I am referring to the problems surrounding this competence and the possibilities that would have been given by the creation decision to establish a study area and could be seriously hampered if the government did not provide funding for their implementation. Thus, the amendment introduced by the proposed decree goes beyond the national assembly in the future and the introduction of new study programmes is governed only by the amendment of the university statute, with the consent of the Ministry or Government. This makes the process of adopting new study programmes really shorter, increases the responsibility of the university and strengthens its autonomy, but in liberal democracy we would like to point out that the process is becoming less transparent at the same time. The decision is left to the political body, which is the current government, which is made up of the positions of the parties, and therefore the opposition no longer has an impact on the composition of study programmes at the university. Today, we complement the internal structure in Maribor, namely the University of Maribor, with two colleges, which we welcome in the LDS Parliamentary Club, as we have been following with attention the development of education in northeastern Slovenia and in Maribor. The legal area of higher education supported the development of the university and college, if I may, from the Faculty of Agriculture to the last, I also support with a sense of support the construction of facilities for the implementation of higher education programmes. Among other things, let me mention the construction of a university sports centre, which is the only such facility in all Slovenian universities. The proposed amendments to the Maribor University decree are the result of long-standing efforts in various areas and meet the needs of the region and its inhabitants in this area. We believe that the arguments supporting the creation of new members are the fruit of serious work and are linked to the tradition of the University of Maribor. For Slovenia and our national interest, this must mean, above all, internal upgrading and quality building, which will be reflected in the quality of the study, and this is also important for the placement of Slovenia in the European Higher Education Area. The new acquisitions of the University of Maribor should strengthen the quality of work in Maribor as well as in the entire northeastern Slovenia. We have committed ourselves to allow Slovenian students equal access to studies of various study programmes that will be internationally comparable and competitive. Based on what we have said and what we have done so far, it follows so clearly that Members of the Liberal Democracy, of course, will be pleased to attend and participate in the birth of two new colleges, namely the Faculty of Philosophy and Faculty of Science and Mathematics. By supporting this decree in the form that it has been transmitted to us by the competent committee of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u142	Thank you, President, for your word. I will not add much to what my colleagues, Saša Peca and Mr Germič, have said. So, I am joining these doubts, which remain, about the fact that politics could go too far into creating content, through the fact that, of course, it will not be financed, and it seems to me that it is a step back, but of course some will say that the autonomy of universities is greater. However, these are opinions that were important and important, and in the stage, the decision was considered by the Committee. Today I think that we are ahead of the act, when it is simply impossible to say and make decisions no, because of that, of course, we would also reject the more positive part of these decisions, which say that some members now have a slightly more choice of their own. In my thinking, I would like to focus on what the second part of this decision on the establishment of two new colleges means for the University of Maribor. So Maribor, not just the university, so Maribor, the wider environment, gets two important content that have been the subject of various and different controversy in this space for a long time. The faculty of education from which these two universities are going to come out has experienced some unrest in the past period, there was no unity about whether these two colleges should be established, now with guidance that has driven this matter soberly and peacefully, which has been able to listen, we receive two colleges. One Faculty of Science and Mathematics and another Faculty of Philosophy. This also gives us a very or very strong incentive in the field of humanistic knowledge, which Maribor simply misses. He missed them both at the university and in Maribor's social life, and with these two colleges, I think they get the Maribor University and Maribor new content. We believe that this will mean a leap, an acceleration in a wide range of areas, which has a direct link, and therefore all those who are aware of the importance of this act are attached to the decree as it is, and we especially attach to the fact that Maribor, in addition to the existing twelve colleges, receives two more and rounded up the contents that are an integral and essential part of every major major university in Europe, in the world, of course even more in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr. Minister, Dr. Zupan, please. You have your word, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! Thank you very much for your support and your words, of course I also understood the words you have expressed in terms of concern. In a sense, it was said that it might be necessary to consider that funding should be fully transferred to the university. The fact is that, in fact, it has already been transferred since this system of total funding has substantially corrected this possibility for the government or executive authorities to influence the implementation of individual programmes and would, of course, point out here that it has been said that the government could make funds available to programmes, the government does not provide funds for programmes, but gives funds to the entire university and, of course, the wisdom of the university and its Senate are left to how they divide it, and here we see this really important autonomy of the university when the university proposes to change its programming composition and when it decides to put a programme into this programme, of course, it is also its commitment that it will be part of the bargain that it receives, of course, which is also financed. In fact, this is financed by the number of students, and here I think the university is quite autonomous. In addition, it must be said that in a sense the government must have this opportunity to influence its finances because it also proposes budgetary resources. There was another objection in the next section. It was said that, of course, this was not the most pleasant thing to hear, that all content begins and ends with money. Nevertheless, it is important to know that money is important, but, of course, it is more important than this part where professors and universities perform with their autonomy and that it is, of course, one condition, not the whole. Then it was said that transparency was made, and so was lapsus, that the opposition had no effect on the composition of the university programmes. Of course, it was thought that the opposition had less influence than the ruling parties, otherwise we believe that it is good that politics has no impact on the composition of the programmes and we believe that this is what we have stressed in this part that it has less. Otherwise, we can ensure that there is no one to warn and I think it is important to note that the emphasis on the word is additional programmes and it is necessary to say that it means an additional programme that, of course, the faculty can expand its activities, but it must not be cramped, and this is important for certain programmes that may not be viable at this point in time, but that the state must maintain them, and this is a guardian that certain faculties should not only become, as it is called, financial hunters, but that they actually do things also when they have a smaller demand. Well, that's what we've been watching. Otherwise, we believe that these decisions make sense, and we thank you both for your support and for the universities that have given support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u145	Thank you, Minister, Dr. Zupan. Would you like a procedural proposal, Mr. Pece?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u146	Mr President, I was just wondering if you'd share your time, and I saw that you've already started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u147	All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. We have three names so far. Mr. Petan, Mohe, Pec. Anyone else? Here you go. Each one has five minutes. Mr. Petan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. So, of course, I will support this decree and then the next two, so I won't take the next one. On this occasion, however, when I support these decisions, I might raise another question. Actually, it's something else. We talk a lot about knowledge, we talk a lot about society, we also talk about a society based on knowledge, of course this is not enough, we also need to be properly organised. I hope that these amended decrees will also help to do something about it. On the other hand, in efforts to implement the Bologna processes and also, of course, at lower rates, the Copenhagen Declarations and so forth, there is, perhaps reluctantly, a differentiation between universities in this wider European space and some data, I do not claim to be accurate, but they are repeating about 10% of students who are supposed to be gravity at the University of Maribor, going to Graz, I hope that this is not true. But it is true that this is happening. This process is present and this is happening. This is probably also happening with students gravitating at the University of Ljubljana. This is said to take advantage of the maximum potential that we have in Slovenia in order to keep these students. For it is not only that someone goes to seek knowledge abroad, but usually most of them remain there. And that's the problem. I would draw attention here to another matter, which is already present in the Slovenian space, and I think this is the right time. In fact, the University of Ljubljana and Maribor is an extremely large conglomerate of different directions, different colleges. And it is probably also true that in Europe it is not the custom for conglomerates so large to be under one roof. This is why there is also a thought in the Slovenian space that the first phase of the separation of such a large conglomerate into the natural and natural part and to the humanistic part should be considered. It is right that these two huge conglomerates would produce two universities, one of which would cover the technical field and the other socially. This is not my idea, so there are many abroad and such thoughts are increasingly present in Slovenia. It may be surprising for someone, but we take into account the fact that our students, especially those from the technical field, are going to study abroad. I will not say that only this division would help to keep students, but in these two directions there are so different working conditions in individual institutions, so different that if only one direction such as technique were combined under one roof, or just one direction such as sociology, this would probably lead to a kind of clarification of direction and not have such a wide range of problems. That's why I decided that this proposal, this thinking that is already present, which is not individual, even in individual colleges, is already happening so that it might be good to think about it and do something about it if it turns out that the results are positive. I'm sure a lot of things would have been solved because we wouldn't have had such a set of different problems under one roof. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr. Moge has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As far as working time is concerned, we are Members sometimes, metaphorically speaking, a collection of slaves. According to the forecast given to us, I somehow expected this point to be at 4: 00 p.m. But since we don't have any time to go to a decent lunch, I was at lunch, and I missed this thing a little bit. I'm so sorry I wasn't there at first. I would like to say the following, that higher education has been in the past and is also now at the centre of attention in all the processes that are taking place in this society and from the strategy to the Bologna process. And it is wise to approach this by trying to regulate this huge system with thousands of participants so that the results are as effective as possible. The point is that when the Committee received this decree for consideration, it was written in such a way that it did not comply with the standards of the legislative and legal service, so the Committee, on a proposal by the amendment, corrected it. And I think that the committee has done a good job, because no amendments have been tabled on this committee today, and I think that this decision will be adopted without any problems at the end. It is only necessary to mention this awkwardness, which happened if it were the original doctrine, then it could happen that for a new college that would be established and does not even have a statute, if only the study areas were written in the statute, such colleges could simply not be established from the legal framework so that they could have some content, but they could establish an empty box. That is why the solution, which is now in the complementary proposal of this decree, is that it is feasible and, of course, here the spears break. The issue is that we will continue to establish new members of the university by decree, but the process in the fields of study has been simplified. According to our old age, we had to change if someone changed the field of study, the whole decree, so the State Assembly was involved with all its apparatus. Now this will somehow be simplified to the extent that only a government with a certain opinion or a competent minister can tell whether or not he agrees to do so, and then this matter is transferred to the statute of the individual university and the deadline is reduced. I think this is comfortable during this period when it comes to changing the university space also in connection with the Bologna study process. In my opinion, there were no major objections to the work of the mother and in this direction there probably will be no, but this is a small legislative intervention if we want to move on to the old situation, which is essentially a change in the decision with one or two articles. On the other hand, I could say that this is also a historic day for the University of Maribor. On the board, everyone, nobody objected, welcomed the establishment of two new colleges. I know today is a hard day for the National Assembly, but all the days have been hard, but it is a holiday day for the University of Maribor, as I said before, because from now on it will also be a program where philosophy will be taught, which is the heart of sociology and will also receive mathematics, which is the queen of science. Only with these two universities will it truly be a true university, humanistic and naturalistic, as European tradition defines it. I want to continue to succeed in building up the university space, and I want this university to be complete, so I can get another chance in the future of the art academy and then be completely closed and finally, because I spoke Latin yesterday, I said to say something today, and this [[...]] [[He speaks Latin.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Pache has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u152	Thank you. I am probably talking about the need or the feeling that, of course, it would make much more sense for the decision before us to deal with the drafting of the umbrella law on higher education, I think that you have also received this criticism on the parent's labour body by the legislative and legal service. I would like to point out three things, perhaps not so important to you, but the fact is that you are on the working body, Minister Jure Zupan, pointing out that the government will accept responsibility, which additional fields of study will be financed and which will not be financed due to financial constraints. And this was one of the basic dilemmas or expositions of the Slovenian National Party when we presented our position. Personally, it does not seem right for me to maintain it or to adopt it. In particular, I don't think it's right in the case that you're presenting a decision to the public as a gift to universities, a gift in which autonomy is. We can see that this autonomy, as far as we look at it in its entirety, is not to the extent that you want to show us. I would also like to point out below that, contrary to public universities, private institutions will be able to call on those areas of study which they will consider useful and necessary from their point of view. Here too is the issue of financing this. In this regard, I would also like to highlight the part that the legal and legislative service has given in its opinion, where it says so, and the provision that it should give its consent to the establishment of study areas is now the most important part, which in this case is the Republic of Slovenia, for which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia exercises the constitutional rights of the Republic of Slovenia. So I think that from all these three moments that I have highlighted, it is still very clear that all are vital, I emphasise, vital decisions in hand and only in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So I do not think that we can speak as casually as the words in the presentation of the views of the members of the groups, how good work the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is doing. That's not what this is about. Let us pour at least in this case pure wine, as is evident from all the three arguments I have raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u153	Thank you. This concludes the general debate on the proposal for a decree. As no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary motion for a resolution, the assembly will hold its decision-making session today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO REVEAL THE PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE DECISION ON THE CHANGE OF THE UNIVERSE IN LOVE. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motion for a decree. Dr. Jure Zupan, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u154	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. I'll be very brief. I think we've talked about most of these changes. The fact is, there is only a small change or a slightly different addition. Specifically, in the decision on the transformation of the University of Ljubljana, we accept a new name at the art academy, the Academy of Fine Arts is renamed the Academy of Fine Arts and Design, because there is a department of design that has a long tradition and we believe that this name is appropriate. However, as far as the rest is concerned, I understand and think that, Mr Pece, we share certain opinions, of course, words are, may have different meanings, but the government is aware of its responsibility in financing, as well as universities are aware of their responsibilities in the design of the programme, and I think we must share this responsibility together for the benefit of students and employees. I'd say so much about this point, about the University of Ljubljana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The motion for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mrs Eva Irgle, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u156	The Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development discussed the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the decision on the reshaping of the University of Ljubljana at its meeting on 9 March 2006. In addition to the above-mentioned decree, the Government, as a proponent, also sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a decree amending and supplementing the decision on the recast of the University of Maribor and a proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the decision establishing the University of Primorska. Amendments and additions to these decisions, according to the proposaler, will increase the autonomy of universities in the area of content to be taught. The proposed amendments would also significantly reduce the procedure for the establishment of additional study areas, as it will no longer be necessary for the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to decide in additional study areas on the basis of the decision on the redesign of the university. Therefore, on the basis of the proposed amendments, additional study areas in individual Member States, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as founder, would be determined by the University in the Statute. The representative of the University of Ljubljana, who participated in the debate, supported the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the decision, thus simplifying the procedures concerning the definition of study areas. At the same time, he stressed the need for public universities to leave a large part of autonomy regarding the sharing of money in the field of study and research, and this should be the connection where the state is concerned about public interest. Everything else should be left to the universities because they know you best, especially if competition is greater where those areas of activity where they can compete. The Committee also supported the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 2 of the draft decree. In this way, the disagreement between the proposal for a decree and the applicable law on higher education, which was highlighted in its opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, was resolved. After the discussion on the proposal for a resolution on amendments and amendments to the decision on the transformation of the University of Ljubljana, the Committee voted on all the articles of the proposal together and adopted them. By including the amendment adopted in the motion for a decree, the Committee has set out the text of the amended draft decree and is proposing to the national assembly to adopt it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u157	Thank you, Vice President of the Board. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Let me begin by reminding you that you have actually reacted incorrectly or not at all when the Minister initially allowed himself to go into trouble with a Member, specifically a member of the Slovenian National Party, in an additional presentation of the applicant's position, which I find very unfair on your part. But allow me to speak further about the decision itself. The proposal for a decision on amendments and amendments to the decision on the reshaping of the University of Ljubljana is, however, only if we take into account or only the changes relating to the change in the name of the Academy of Fine Arts and, as a result, its abbreviations, in fact, are not disputed, i.e. the decree. What is worth more consideration is the addition set out in Article 2 concerning Article 6 of the existing decree, which we have already discussed more or less in the context of the previous point, when we discussed the amendments and additions to the decision on the transformation of the University of Maribor. The government originally wanted to transfer the competence to the exclusive competence of an individual university, under the pretext of what we have already heard, of greater autonomy of an individual university. This was also rightly pointed out by the legislature of the National Assembly, since such a change would be contrary to the law on higher education. A State assembly would thus be released from the notification and decision-making process of the programmes. If I try to anticipate on the basis of the information that we have the opposition Members - let me say that we are very disadvantaged in this regard - this autonomy can only go for the sake of the newly established universities, which undoubtedly puts the existing three Slovenian universities, Ljubljana, Maribor and the University of the Sea in an unequal position. Within the framework of the parent working body, i.e. the Higher Education Committee, it was often heard by government members, or the intention of regionalisation in this area, or, I will say very plastically, the university in each of you. It is nice and right to try to bring education closer to the local population, but money is already lacking for the existing three universities. We also confirmed a loan guarantee to the University of the Sea a month ago that, in fact, what is right, it would not last have an equal position with the other two universities, Maribor and Ljubljana. In principle, money is the government's reason not to carry out a project. The government has its priorities, it has its strength, which is ultimately also to some extent, of course. You don't want to be able to exploit that power also through the statute in the way the government tried to introduce it, the weight or role of the founder, the government, the politics, or I'm going to say plastic again, some kind forces that will capitalize on the formation of new universities. We are not only in a decision that at first sight does not bring about significant changes, but in the whole concept of government reform in the area of higher education. These changes are introduced by the government, very cleverly, following steps to make them as observable as possible and to trigger as little controversy as possible. In accordance with the principles of legal nomotechnics, the government also gives only after-service standards without the content of the criteria that are actually needed. Or if I put it simply again, we have a bowl, but we are not given to know, at least the opposition Members, not how this bowl will be filled. At the expense of reduced procedures, the Government will decide, instead of the National Assembly, which study programmes will be financed by the State for the purpose of limiting financial resources. This has also been highlighted and highlighted on the parent’s working body. I have mentioned today the influence of so-called friendly forces, or if you want doubt or fear of politicization. And a legitimate fear that private higher education institutions will be in a clearly privileged position towards public universities. Once again, I would like to point out that, in fact, we do not have all the information on government reform in the area of higher education. We are not given to know how changes in the roof law will take place, so the law on higher education, to which you do not want to end up, also refers to this decree or amendment proposed by the government in the basic proposal of the decree. In short, what we would like in the first place is the fair treatment of the government coalition to others, not just government Members, in short, to other opposition Members, who, after all, have the right to know where government reforms or government steps are going in the field of education in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr Vasja Klavora, Master, will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u160	Dear Mr President, honourable Members and Members, distinguished Mr Minister! In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the proposal for a resolution on amendments and amendments to the decision on the transformation of the University of Ljubljana, and we will also support it. The proposed amendments and additions relate to the redesignation of the Academy of Fine Arts into the Academy of Fine Arts and Design and to the conversion or competence to determine or determine the fields of study. We estimate that the provision originally proposed would be fully transposed from the Decree to the Statute, contrary to the applicable legislation governing higher education. We believe that the competence to determine the fields of study should be regulated by decree and statute. In our parliamentary group, we also agree with the arrangements for the founder's consent to establish additional study programmes. We believe that such agreement is necessary because the founder has certain financial obligations in the case of the establishment of new study programmes. However, we estimate that such consensus should be based solely on financial aspects and cannot be based on the guidelines for deciding on the content of the study programmes. On the basis of the above, the Members of our DeSUS Group will also support the decision on amendments and amendments to the decision on the transformation of the University of Ljubljana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u161	Thank you very much. There is a general debate on the proposal for a decree. Mr. Secretary has the floor. You want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since all the prepared debaters who wanted to do so have received the floor and because the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else would like to discuss it under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary motion for a resolution, the assembly will hold its decision-making session today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 22. On the basis of a proposal for a decision amending and supplementing the decision establishing the University of Primorska. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motion for a decree. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u162	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! This decision on amendments and additions to the decision establishing the University of Primorska also has the same content in its central part as the first two, and in that additional part it complements the activities of the Faculty of Education, it is said that this change is also important for the university itself, which in fact moved towards these actual changes, because they found that this problem, as regards new orientations or new activities, is so complicated that it is not different from the general procedure of the National Assembly that this matter is now done. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u163	Thank you. The motion for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudolf Mojet, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u164	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Because these decrees are similar to each other, like an egg egg, everything has already been told. I call on Members and Members to support this decision, such as the members of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u165	Thank you. I now give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups on the motion for a decree. Dr. Marko Pavliha has the floor to present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues. Slovenia can only push its way into an even better future with knowledge. As members of the European Union, we have committed ourselves to working to become a knowledge-based society. We have supported the Lisbon Strategy, which aims to become the most competitive economy, now it is our duty, together with the other members, to realise the idea of a European higher education space that the Bologna process offers. I hope we haven't accepted our obligations with a fig in our pocket. Let us not forget that Slovenia's involvement in international cooperation in the field of higher education means the possibility of creating comparable curricula and equivalent diplomas, as well as achieving superior quality. Let me stress that in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have worked for a number of years for a new University in Primorska and in 2002 we have also succeeded. The idea of setting up was supported by the idea of expanding and enabling new opportunities for education. We believed and still believe that knowledge is what means economic, social and cultural progress, and at the same time the development of national identity. In the LDS, we are convinced that the country is responsible for ensuring the possibility of good education and skills for work. Only with quality knowledge can we successfully respond to the challenges and risks posed by globalisation, the development of the information society and the integration of our country into integration processes. Members of the previous mandate first supported the establishment of a coastal university, in February 2002, with a national higher education programme. Allow me to quote something here, so to speak, from the historical lines of this document, quote: "The creation of new higher education institutions cannot be succinct, but must be accompanied by care for their quality. In addition to Ljubljana and Maribor, after 1994 higher education activities on the coast and in Novi Gorica were significantly strengthened. Part of this activity is still under the auspices of the University of Ljubljana, namely the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport and the Faculty of Education. Since 1998 and 1999, budgetary resources have also been provided to independent higher education institutions in this area, which have not been established by the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the legal provision on concessions. The funding of student homes in this area is also under way. With the country's further investment, and with the successful further human and spatial development of these higher education institutions, as well as the institutions, with their closer cooperation and the strengthening of joint efforts for quality development, the development objectives of higher education and the common national interests make this area a potential place for the establishment of a third Slovenian university." Both in the 2002 national programme. It followed the establishment of a university in Primorska, a bold act that proves to be a good and smart decision by every day, as the university develops and attracts more and more students. Let me say, in particular as professor of the Faculty of Maritime and Transport, which still belongs to the University of Ljubljana, that I will continue to make this university a member of the University of Primorsk. Because I can't imagine the further development of this university without such an important college that deals fully with maritime affairs. And I hope that one day we will also succeed in this regard. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we understand the change in the decree as the regulation of formalities necessary for the smooth functioning of the university and its members. We therefore support the proposed amendment. At the same time, we stress the need to maintain and determine the quality of existing and new study programmes. Only the excellent knowledge of our graduates and diplomats can mean competitiveness and thus the success and quality of Slovenia in the European space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The decree amending and supplementing the decision establishing the University of Primorsk is certainly welcome in the National Assembly and should be welcomed, as we intend to do in the Slovenian National Party. However, it is also right to point out some of the advantages and weaknesses. So it is the beginning of a greater autonomy of universities in the field of content they teach, and we are also pleased to see that, with amendments and amendments to the decree, the autonomy of the university in the area of content to be taught is also increased. Thus, it will no longer be necessary for additional study areas to be decided by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of a decision on the transformation of the University. This, of course, is encouraging. The deadline for aligning the university statute with the decree is 3 months. Of course, when we look at other things, it is relevant and it should also be noted that in the future the private university is in some advantage towards other universities, as shown by the fact that they will be able to change their statutes and apply for studies for a certain school period, and the government's consent will not be necessary, only for concessions. There's an advantage to private institutions over state institutions, if I may say so. At the same time, I could also look forward to finding that, a long time ago, the law on guarantees for credit to the University of the Sea has allowed for a real new start; we know that we only had this university on paper for quite some time, that it did not have the necessary administrative and technical conditions to work. And let us hope that in the coming years it will be possible to see great prosperity in this area in Primorsk, because there are huge campuses throughout Primorska in the establishment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u169	Thank you. Mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u170	Mr President, honourable Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Members of the DeSUS Group will support the proposal for a resolution on amendments and amendments to the decision on the transformation of the University of Primorska, for the reasons already stated in relation to both universities in Maribor and Ljubljana. As already mentioned today, we regard the proposed changes as positive and welcome, particularly in terms of giving greater autonomy to the University of Primorsk. We believe that it is necessary to encourage universities to continue to develop and, of course, support from the government is also needed. Therefore, these changes, which have already been widely discussed today, are needed mainly in terms of the rescheduling and faster resolution of the procedures relating to study programmes, and also allow for a more autonomous functioning of universities in this area. We are pleased that these amendments are also agreed upon at universities, so we will support them in the DeSUS Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u171	Thank you very much. There is a general debate on the proposal for a decree. On the list is only Mr. Minister you want a word? [[...]] [[No, no, ……]] All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. [[No, no, ……]] This concludes the general debate on the proposal for a decree. As no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary motion for a decree, the assembly will take a decision on the decision in accordance with the timing of the assembly meeting today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, that is at 2.25 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 2.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u172	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please take your seats and calm down. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Banka Slovenije Act. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting on the law. There are 55 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - the second is the proposal for a law on financial conglomerates. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled or one amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 41. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting on the amendment. There are 60 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I give my word to the bill-maker. [[There is no law-maker.]] I have been informed that they wish to propose, on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, that the third consideration of the draft law be carried out at this meeting. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal which has been tabled. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 4. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Tuesday, 4 April 2006, after the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Payments. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. At the same time, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that due to the amendments adopted in the home work body, the law would not be harmonised. An explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 60 Members and Members present, 54 of whom voted against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. With regard to point 3, the assembly will vote on the Collective Contracts Act on Tuesday, 4 April 2006, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, in the framework of the votes. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Act on Offences. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I am informing you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that due to the amendments adopted in the home work body, the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 61 Members and Members present, for whom 49 votes against 11. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand that the Act of Offences has been passed. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the central register of the population. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. 61 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 1. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the law on residence registration. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. At the same time, I am informing you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would not be harmonised because of the amendments adopted in the home work body. There are 61 Members and Members of Parliament voting in favour of 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the register of origin. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. At the same time, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that due to the amendments adopted in the home work body, the law would not be harmonised. Mrs. Shirca, explanation of vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u173	It will be almost a year from the adoption by this National Assembly of a law on the registration of same-sex partnerships. Since the adoption of the law, no same-sex partner community has been registered in Slovenia, and the fact is that it could not have been because there were no conditions for it. In part, this formal intervention into this Act, which deals with the Act of the Drobniks, will now be given to these conditions and will be given at the same time as the Regulation, which should have been written after six months of the entry into force of the Law on the Registration of Same-Sex Partnerships. I like that the interior ministry had to fix and carry out the work of the Ministry of Labour, and that in some ways it has also admitted that even if we do not talk about the weddings that this ministry has been so afraid of, we will talk about registrations. However, I would like to point out that, at the moment when we will register same-sex partnerships even under legal options, half of Europe is doing a wider and more substantial humane and in terms of respect for human rights and equality more just action, as half of Europe also asserts the right to adopt and to those social rights which it can assume through its partner when it is released into such a community, and which is Slovenia, which is clearly still discriminatory, we have not been able to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u174	Thank you. Mrs. Potata, please. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u175	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. Social Democrats will support the proposed amendment of the law, but at the same time, we would like to point out once again that perhaps when the law is reopened [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u176	Wait a minute. Please, only Mrs. Potts has the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u177	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. The proposed amendment of the law will be supported by the Social Democrats. At the same time, we would like to remind again that maybe [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u178	Only Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u179	Thank you for making sure I can talk without noise. However, we would like to point out that there may have been a slight disregard for this novel, but it is not a trifle for those who, under Article 4 of the Law on the Register of Mothers, could impose new personal circumstances that this novel does not now apply, as it is written. When the next opportunity for this law to be opened, we suggest that you also consider this possibility of ensuring equality before the law for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u180	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u181	I only have one suggestion. Could you give Mr Pojibic a word to explain his voice because he has much to say?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-03-30-SDZ4-Redna-15.ana.u182	We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 58 votes against 3. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - dealing with the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Inspection Act. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. At the same time, I inform you that I have not been informed by the legislature or by the government that the amendments adopted in the home labour body would make the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda - consideration of the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the decision on the transformation of the University of Maribor. We're moving on to decision-making. At the same time, I am informing you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that, due to the amendments adopted in the home work body, the decree would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda - the proposal for a decree on amendments and additions to the decision on the transformation of the University of Ljubljana. We're moving on to decision-making. At the same time, I am informing you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that, due to the amendments adopted in the home work body, the decree would be inconsistent. We're voting. 62 Members and Members were present and 62 voted against. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the decision establishing the University of Primorska. We're moving on to decision-making. At the same time, I am informing you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that, due to the amendments adopted in the home work body, the decree would be inconsistent. We're voting on the ruling. The vote is under way. There are 63 Members and Members present, 63 of whom voted against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 16th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Have a nice day!
