ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the 17th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Milan M. Cwickl, Geza Juban from 2.00 p.m. on, Ljubo Germič from 2.00 p.m. on, Ivan Jelen, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, Franc Kangler for the beginning of the session, Darja Lavtišar Bebler, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Maria Possonec, Jakob Preseknik, Cyril Testen and Rudolf Može from 2.00 p.m. on. We're moving on to 24. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police, Summary Procedure. The draft law was tabled by a Member of the Council, Dr Mark Pavlih. With regard to this law, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposers of the Law for further explanation. [[They're giving up.]] I give the word to a government representative or the government has no say on this point. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u2	Good morning! Thank you so much for saying that. We believe in the DeSUS Group that the proposaler certainly had a good purpose when he proposed this law, and, as you know, he has also raised a lot of media attention. In the initial phase, this media attention focused mainly on how negative the use of shockers can actually have, and also on demonstrating with empirical data what is happening elsewhere in the world, where this use is already permitted. The point is probably that the applicant wants to prevent the experimental use of coercive means, shockers, in this age of testing. Otherwise, it speaks of this, even in an additional interpretation on the parent's working body, that his fundamental objective is to prevent the use of these coercive means without being explicitly recorded in the provisions of the law. By simplifying or shortening, as recorded, he claimed that the funds had been introduced legitimately and legally. It is therefore a way of introducing these funds and not so much to oppose. It has been explicitly stated that it does not in principle oppose the use of such funds. However, he wants to prevent the extension of powers to the police, he wants to prevent excessive interference with personal integrity, he wants to prevent excessive interference with personal freedom, he wants to prevent overly arbitrary judgement by police officers and he wants to prevent abuse of powers that are not explicitly stated in the law. Therefore, if I repeat, its aim was to ensure the legal and legitimate inclusion of such funds in our legal order. As far as this is concerned, the DeSUS Group fully supports it. We have the same position and we advocate limiting excessive interference with personal integrity, but it has proved to be a forecast, the objective of what the applicant wanted and the implementation of each other. What has been proposed in the provision of an article that is to be changed is no longer merely legal, legitimate introduction, but mainly to prevent it. This is contrary to the prediction that this use is also admissible, but provided that it is introduced in a different way. The logical consequence would therefore be that the proposal to amend the article would be such as to ensure that an electric paralyser would also be included among the other funds. That's not true. The draft law explicitly states that the use of such funds should be prohibited. In this part, we do not support the bill. And since the law as a whole with a proposal, with an introduction, with an explanation and with the proposed article is contradictory, we also do not intend to support it in further discussion, or we feel that it is not really suitable for further discussion. However, we ourselves have a complementary proposal or we support and solidarity with those who think that it would be wiser to allow the use of electrical paralysers and to prohibit the use of the last asset in this article, i.e. firearms. And if it were such a replacement, the applicant would probably give his own consent, and the police probably would not be at risk of doing their job or doing their job in the same way as they are now.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u3	Thank you. Mr Dimitrij Kovačič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I think that the delegation's previous position has been only a little oversimplification and thus I feel that it is not possible to limit the use of coercive resources, as has been said. Nevertheless, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, a bill on amendments and additions to the law on police proposed by the honourable colleague, Dr Pavlih, in my opinion, and also in the opinion of the Group of Members, is not suitable for further consideration. The proposed law wishes to explicitly state from the so-called other means of so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called, that this category of enforcement assets does not include electric paralyzers. Despite understanding some concerns about the use of electrical paralysers, it must be made very clear that the use of electrical paralysers does not mean increasing the use of coercive means, as the proponents of this law would like to say, but is actually the opposite. The existing law provides that the use of coercive measures is possible in very limited cases and also to a limited extent, only until the purpose of the use of these funds has been achieved. And if we know that the worst means of enforcement that causes the most serious consequences, including death, firearms and this means of use can only be used in the event of direct life-threatening situations, then it can be clear to anyone that in such a case, if circumstances so permit, the use of an electric paralyser, a means of enforcement that is less repressive than a weapon of fire and the consequences of its use are easier. And an electric paralyzer cannot be or is not allowed to be used unless all conditions are met and circumstances justifying the use of firearms are not provided. Therefore, it is certainly better for a police officer to disable the one who poses a life-threatening threat to the environment with an electric paralyser than to use firearms, even though the conditions for the use of firearms are met. Of course, if, in a particular case, actual circumstances allow the use of an electric paralyser, because many times in practice the circumstances are such that it is not possible to simply replace one coercive agent with another. Well, in this case, it is necessary to assess what is possible. This will also effectively incapacitate the attacker, i.e. an electric paralyser, but at the same time it will not endanger the lives of other people around him. It is clear, however, that an electric paralyser should also be used with extreme caution and that it would not result in injury after inappropriate use. Therefore, it will, of course, also be necessary for police officers to provide appropriate training and education in this area. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party therefore believe that there is no reason for the proposed amendment of the Police Act, since the explicit exclusion of an electric paralyser between the category of other means of passiveisation would not reduce the repressivity of police action, but would result in exactly the opposite effect. They would have prevented the police from using a milder means instead of the worst repressive means in the light of the circumstances of the same effect, which is undoubtedly the electric paralyser compared to the firearms. In addition, it is only a proposal for amendments to one small segment, an area governed by the Police Act. The law will need appropriate amendments and corrections, but of course a more comprehensive and consistent approach will be needed. The government is preparing amendments to this law, which I believe will seek to amend and amend those provisions that have proved to be under-thinking or effective in practice so far. It will also be necessary to regulate what takes a new time, and only life and present - day conditions have shown that things need to be arranged differently than they were when the law in force was now being enacted. As it is said, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will not support the proposed law, as it is not suitable for further proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u5	Mr. Rezman has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I suggest that, now that the meeting is still in the beginning, you ensure that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are respected, so that the time allocated to the presentation of the positions of the members of the groups is meant to do so and not to debates which are not authorised; in short, those who are attacked cannot respond, except in a procedural sense. This is also true for Mr Dimitri Kovacic, so I would ask him not to overly simplify his interpretation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u7	Thank you. Ms Majda Širca will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u8	Respectable. It is indeed a small area of police action, as has just been said, but not so insignificant. Why was this amendment to the police law ever made? I'd say we're just gonna set her up because we're against "defolt." No, it was put in to help and to prevent the way an electric stunner is coming to the police. With your laws or with your law, the electrical paralyser is not legally defined; let me be more clear; in the Liberal Democracy we do not object to the introduction of an electric paralyser in the police, we simply oppose the way it is introduced, namely, through the law and only with the sub-legal acts or regulations. This does not, however, apply to the surface with the Regulation, since the last amendment to the Regulation, as of April 2006, does not contain any provisions on the use of an electric paralyser. And here's the problem. So, the government is introducing a new enforcer not only past the law, but also without the rule of law. We have repeatedly discussed the inadmissibility and inadequacy of these solutions in the opposition, because it is not sufficient, we have tabled the amended law. I repeat: neither the law nor the rules do. Other means of passiveisation listed in Article 85 of the Regulation, where the electrical paralyser is not mentioned where it is, we ask ourselves, an electrical paralyser systemised as other means of passiveisation. Of course, this raises quite a few questions. We wonder what such practice is, that it is not regulated, that such a crackdown in the introduction of new coercive means means to move forward; that the police can come again and again with new proposals of coercive means and it will care and will always be comfortable with the legal and legislative body, beyond the cooperation of an independent profession, the public, etc. You will not be able to install surveillance cameras in your homes or install water chips on your behalf of your security. Let me remind you that the proposal to amend the arms law and the police was in principle agreed by the State Secretary of the Ministry and the head of the working group for the introduction of the electrical paralyser of the General Police Administration. The Committee on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities were in principle for change, as they should have thought about it themselves, especially with regard to the free sale of paralysers. However, when the vote took place, the representatives of the coalition rejected this decision in order for the government to amend the Police Act, in which the electric paralyser would define as a means of enforcement and also determine the conditions for its use; and the conclusion that the Government would draw up an arms law to tighten the conditions for the acquisition, possession and use of an electric paralyser. In short, coalition members from the SDS and NSI have opposed what your government has been willing to do. And then, remember that on the second day the texts were also published as 'they don't know what they are voting', because when the journalist asked you about the vote on the committee, you couldn't explain exactly why you voted the way you did. I am talking about the possibility of misunderstandings and the consideration of today's law has given us a chance to reconsider. I hope you have learned that the law does not hurt, that the issue here is completely irrelevant and that Slovenia must not allow itself to cross into the field of an illegal state. To avoid deception, there's still an explanation. The bill does not prohibit the use of all the means of secondment, as stated by the Government and the legal and legislative service in its opinion, but merely the use of an electric paralyser, which we have decided to make due to the increasing warnings of non-governmental organisations, and here I quote Amnesty International that this means also causing death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Good morning, good morning to you all! The Group of Social Democrats believes that the use of electric paralysers in the police is a matter that needs to be seriously discussed and considered in the National Assembly as well. Therefore, on this issue, the Social Democrats' Group prepared a written question to the competent minister almost a year ago, on 7 July last year. In his reply, the Minister claimed that the problem was known and monitored, that no decision had been taken and that it was only on the basis of the opinion of the expert group set up by the Ministry for that purpose that they would prepare all the necessary professional basis for the decision in the Ministry. The questions we are asked when using an electric paralyser in the police are mainly: are the possible negative consequences of the use sufficiently studied; are the conditions and cases of permitted use sufficiently well foreseen, especially because the police and the ministry stress that the use of electric paralysers could only be used in cases where it is necessary to prevent direct danger to the life and serious injury of a policeman, since the perpetrator against whom the paralysis is used uses dangerous weapons or means that enable him to do so? Is it necessary to amend or supplement the police law in order to achieve undisputed and legally settled conditions, or would it be sufficient to regulate these issues in the Police Powers Rules? Finally, whether all questions, rights, acquisitions and use of paralysis by citizens and citizens that are more than professionally trained police officers can cause harmful consequences in handling them. This is what we wanted to highlight as questions and get answers to them also at the meeting of the parent working body. Unfortunately, however, due to the content of the draft law, and particularly to the Ministry's unwillingness to give concrete answers to these questions, a debate developed in the home labour body, which either did not respond to them or only read out to the applicant the purposes which he had strongly denied. Instead of discussing the serious issue, even in our opinion not fully resolved, the debate on the home labour body was sparked into a mutual accusation, which ultimately resulted in a common decision for the coalition not to adopt a bill. When a coalition prepares an unconceivable and necessary law, it must be supplemented indefinitely, even at its own meeting of the parent working body or later with amendments, it must also be withdrawn many times from the agenda only to be adopted. However, when the problem is, perhaps not well thought out, the opposition warns, is not even in the government, and much less in the Members and Members of the coalition of any willingness to seek common, acceptable solutions and to answer the questions raised by the problem. This is also typical of this case of amendments to the law on police. And these are the reasons why Members and Members of the Social Democrats propose not to adopt the law, we will not support it, as we still feel it would be useful and right to answer the questions that I have also highlighted in this introduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u11	Thank you. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u12	That's a nice welcome to the president. Nice greetings to representatives of the Ministry, fellow Members and fellow Members. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal of the Home Committee, which proposes that the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Police Act is not suitable for further consideration. At the very meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, Members of the New Slovenia have expressed the view that, if it is necessary, if it is necessary for a police officer to reach out to us citizens and citizens, or for his own life, with an extreme asset, by now the firearms, that it is somehow appropriate to give it an alternative, even after less extreme means, after the possible use of an electric paralyser, if this is actually introduced after the probationary age in the police. Therefore, the latter option in extreme cases and in legally defined cases is, in our belief, a minor interference with human personal integrity, and in particular its application is for the easy consequences identified that could arise in an individual. These consequences have been identified sufficiently clearly in favour of the paralyser compared to firearms, and we will therefore, as we say, support the proposal of the home working body that the proposal of the bill of motion is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u14	Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished representative of the Ministry of the Interior, colleagues and colleagues! For an introduction to how serious the proposal is, it appears from the participation of the proposer himself and his parliamentary group. According to the Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group, our police are adequately trained to take action in specific critical situations in which they must respond with appropriate coercive measures in the light of legally defined cases and conditions. Under the circumstances, which authority can be used by an individual police officer, it is impossible to specify in advance in the law before the need for an enforcement measure arises. In selecting an appropriate means of enforcement, it is very important that the choice of one where the harmful effects on the person against whom the means of enforcement is used be the least, but that the means of enforcement must be effective at the same time. The electrical paralyser is certainly an effective means of enforcement, while at the same time it is less lifeless than a weapon of fire, such as a gun. It is important to take into account that a police officer exposes himself in protecting the human rights of others, often endangering his life and not only the one protecting him. If the use of means of secondment, which could operate at more distances, would be prohibited by law, a policeman would not have the possibility of using a milder force in an attack that would directly endanger the life of a police officer or someone else who is being defended by a police officer with his job, but could only use firearms. Under certain conditions, an electrical paralyser capable of operating at a distance may be the only alternative to a firearm, which can undoubtedly have a significant impact on the use of an electrical paralyzer. Studies conducted both at home and abroad also prove this. The Ministry of the Interior also regularly monitors, analyses and examines the use of police powers, including the use of coercive means, with a view to determining the legality and expertise of their use, the capacity of police officers to use and the appropriateness of enforcement resources, with a view to reducing the consequences of their use. One of the reasons why Slovenian police have decided to test the use of an electric paralyser is the growing trend of attacks on police officers, which can be detected in recent years. For many years, other democratic countries in Europe have also been using an electric paralyser. In considering the possibility of introducing an electric stunner in the Slovenian police force, both studies abroad and studies by competent institutions in the Republic of Slovenia were taken into account, as provided by government representatives. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group, the police should be the police, the peacekeepers should be the peacekeepers, and we hope that we will not get a proposal for a law that will use the palm branch as the only means of enforcement. Therefore, according to the Polish group of the Slovenian People's Party, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on police is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, President. Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, we understand the proposal for a law, as proposed by colleague Pavlich, rather than a desire and a tendency to regulate the use of a paralyser more strongly or more firmly than has been regulated so far. We don't understand the tendency here, but now the police will have to take out the stun gun. We understand that a certain matter is handled a little better and a little stronger. We're talking about guns. We are talking about a weapon that, under certain conditions, can also cause the death of the one against whom it is used. Therefore, I think it is appropriate for such a thing to be dealt with by law and not by law and regulations. Last but not least, as someone has said before me, democratic states are already using a stunner. True, but also in these democratic countries, death victims appear in the use of a paralyser. I also agree with those who have talked about it being a milder form of weapon than a weapon of fire when it comes to extreme force. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not object to the use of a paralyser in the police force, but we have determined its application, the purpose of its use, when it can be used, especially because the abuse of a policeman may occur. It's fear. But it is true that we must give the police a measure of confidence that they now have. If today or at any time one of the Slovenian police officers - we know very few of them - used firearms, we know what the collisions were before he was taken back to his job. We will not oppose the proposal for a law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u17	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 33rd item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.05. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 29. Agenda item - First draft of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Security Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members with the first signed Merrani Potrče requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Mr. Mag. Janez Drobnič, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u18	Dear Members and Members! The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Protection Act removes some shortcomings in key areas, namely money social assistance and the choice of a family assistant. It also introduces the possibility of shorter institutional protection for older people in hospitals. The main objective of the amendments submitted is to improve control and to achieve greater fairness in the allocation of financial social assistance and to better regulate the right to a family assistant. For the recipients of monetary social assistance, the proposal for these amendments introduces the following key improvements: more effective promotion of unemployed recipients of financial social assistance for greater work for all who are able to do so. The effect of work activity is multilateral. Aid recipients maintain working habits and contacts with the environment, gain work experience that may be useful for later possible normal employment or the conclusion of a work relationship in similar parts and tasks; improve social inclusion in society and can contribute to general social benefits through work. Furthermore, it removes the receipt of post-employment aid, i.e. from the moment when the need for financial social assistance ceases, unless these family incomes are still too low to make a difference to the full social assistance that would otherwise belong to the family. The amendments also improve the control over the use of funds by beneficiaries of exceptional financial social assistance. We are also developing a legal basis for obtaining control data on beneficiaries' benefits for a longer period of time, which will be the basis for a more effective exchange of data between public records. With these changes, we prevent abuse in cases where social work centres find that the aid carrier was only a fictitious declaration of his own household at the same address as he had already been staying. We are introducing the return of financial social assistance, which has been paid as a substitute form of aid for waiting time for a solution on the second right that is exercised before this financial social assistance, for example, a financial compensation for the unemployed. Under the existing law, there have been situations where someone was able to enforce insurance money and at the same time financial social assistance. The proposal for amendments also touches on the current subsidisation of the employment of recipients of social assistance for an indefinite period. It also builds on the form of subsidisation of employment for a certain period of time, but not less than 12 months. However, the subsidy payment system changes from a single payment to a monthly payment method that will prevent and limit potential abuses or simplify recovery procedures that could occur if the single payment system continued to exist. In order to amend the law, we also enforce Constitutional Court decision 21/6 in order to ensure that the family's entitlement to financial social assistance is not taken into account. With a change, we abolish the transfer of local competence in the procedures for determining the eligibility of financial social assistance for individual family members, for which the Ministry of Labour has now delegated competence from the social work centre in which the registered permanent residence is located to the social work centre after the applicant's permanent residence. The proposal for amendments also touches on the family assistant, which was also necessary from the point of view of the Constitutional Court's decision. The proposal thus also eliminates the identified shortcomings in the regulation of the right of a family helper, by involving the congregations in the process. The financing of a family assistant shall be regulated in a way that also applies to the financing of other similar social security services, such as home-based assistance to the family or the institutional protection of adults. Compliance with the conditions for a disabled person and the appropriateness of this right will then be decided by the specialisation of the disability commission of the pension and disability insurance institution, thereby ensuring a higher level of professionality of the decisions. The law also introduces the purposeful use of funds previously received by beneficiaries of a family assistant for foreign care and assistance and service. Following the regulation of the law, the law has remained calm. This will reduce the expenditure from their budgets for up to a third of the municipalities as family assistants. Until the adoption of the new system legislation governing the financing of municipalities, the transitional provision also regulates the reimbursement of funds to those municipalities where the co-financing of the family assistant will exceed 0.35% of the eligible consumption of the municipality. It will no longer be necessary for professional workers to determine whether the selected family assistant could be considered a unemployed person, as he will have to provide proof of employment and unemployment insurance, of whether or not to register the unemployed. There are also changes in the law that touch the institutional protection of older people in hospitals. With these changes, we allow immediate social protection for those who complete acute hospital treatment, but the health situation does not allow them to live alone or be provided with adequate help and care at home, and there is no immediate reception in the homes of older citizens. Such institutional protection shall be of a transitional nature and shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Social Protection Act and the resulting sub-legal acts. The proposed amendments and additions to the Social Protection Act were also agreed upon by the social partners within the framework of the Economic Social Council. The government is determined to respect social dialogue and the opinion of the social partners. We have also coordinated the law in the framework of the partnership for development initiative, so we propose that, honourable Members and Members, the text of the law be supported and adopted and that, as soon as possible, positive changes in the area of social protection in the field of justice and social security be made possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u19	Thank you, Minister. Mr Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister with his coworkers! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for amendments to the Social Protection Act changes and complements the financial social assistance and the family assistant. The existing law was fully enforced on 1.1.2003 when a full amount of financial social assistance of 46,981 tolars was established. The reason for amending the existing law is certainly to look for the weaknesses of the current system of monetary social assistance. But they're the main weaknesses. Firstly, financial social assistance in some areas does not work effectively enough. Secondly, it is difficult to verify the circumstances in the process of granting financial social assistance. Thirdly, monetary social assistance has become an instrument for bridging material threats pending decisions on other rights, because of course it is not its purpose. Fourthly, extraordinary financial assistance is not always used in accordance with its purpose. The reasons for the change of law must also be considered from these weaknesses. Allow me to list some of them. First, abuse of income or property. Secondly, a large increase in beneficiaries, from 62,000 in 2002 to 90,900 in 2004, representing a 45% increase. Thirdly, spending from the budget increased from 18 billion in 2002 to 32.8 billion in 2004, an increase of 82%. Fourth time. Of all beneficiaries, there are as many as 30 long-term recipients. Fifth. The beneficiaries of monetary social assistance are becoming inflexible in active employment policies. Six. A particular problem is the fact that 43% of recipients of financial social assistance are under 27 years of age, of which 11 000 are long-term recipients. The new proposal for changes in the area of monetary social assistance brings a novelty in which families and individuals are not eligible for savings or assets exceeding 60 basic amounts of minimum income. However, as assets, the personal vehicle shall not be considered up to the value of 35 basic amounts of the minimum income. For persons who are foreigners who do not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, maintenance is considered to be their own income. In the case of joint protection and upbringing of the child, the minimum income for the child shall be set at half the amount. The Centre for Social Work provides for a 30% reduction in aid if the recipient lives with persons with sufficient own resources. Any exceptional cash assistance shall be used by the recipient for a specified purpose and accompanied by evidence within 15 days. In the event that he does not do so, he shall not be entitled to financial social assistance for 18 months. The employer shall receive a subsidy if he employs a long-term unemployed person for at least one year. The unemployed person who is assigned to work from the institution is obliged to work from 8 hours per week and up to 56 hours per month, in case of refusal, to lose social assistance for 6 months. Unjustified social assistance must be returned within 30 days. The family assistant is governed by this 2004 law. At that time, the assessment of the circumstances of this possibility was greatly underestimated, as the 2005 figures show almost once more numbers of resolved applications, and over a thousand requests have been submitted. Of course, such a situation called for intervention, especially since family helpers in some congregations nearly broke municipal finances. The agreement between the congregations and the Ministry was firm and long - term, and the law after one year of coordination was discussed today in the National Assembly. The new proposal transfers the amount of aid and services received by the disabled person to the municipality. The disabled person and the survivors shall co-finance the family assistant to their payment capacity, and any difference shall be added to the municipality, which may also book the property right on the property. Of course, she is also an additional protector, as Mr Minister said in his previous speech. The condition for the status of a family assistant is that the unemployed person or person leaving the labour market is either in a short-term working relationship or an entrepreneur who ceases his or her activities. Certificate issued by the Regional Unit of the Employment Service, the selection decision of the competent centre for social work based on the opinion of the disabled committees of the ZPIZ. According to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, the law follows its purpose and solves the cancer of the municipalities, which is a family assistant, and we will therefore continue to support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u21	Thank you. Ms Majda Širca will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u22	Dear representatives of the government and others present! The law has many rational solutions, but it has many holes, it has been shot in this sense, so it is right to draw attention to solutions that do not seem consistent enough in the future. We will support the law precisely for cleaning up, or for respecting the Constitutional Court’s decision or for realizing what the Constitutional Court has said about assistants. However, let me point out that it is wrong for us to have a law that is not supported by the social partners or, as you may have read, very important comments. It is also not right that we do not face verifiable and real financial consequences or financial effects in such an important law. Let me remind you that the law was first removed from the procedure because the applicants could not find sufficient or reasonable answers regarding the effects of savings or burdens, although we know that the basic objective of the law is to rationalise budgetary expenditure in the granting of monetary social assistance. The system of social transfers, as has already been said, has some shortcomings that do not affect the idea and the concept of the system, but affect perception of justice and stimulation for work. The proposed changes are intended to increase control over the purposeful use of funds, but if there is an unjustified accumulation of social transfers, which is the starting point of the law-makers, the system needs to be amended accordingly, but not to reduce social security, but, therefore, to prevent abuses. The amendment of this part of the law stems from the assumption that recipients of financial social assistance speculate. However, control of end-of-life expenditure is ensured in the current system, as well as conditioning aid by seeking employment and regulating other living conditions. Maybe there's too little integration at this point, too little professional assistance, certainly not enough jobs and too little money. However, the legislator should think earlier about a better approach to addressing specific groups of recipients of monetary social assistance and not just restricting access to such assistance. Externally in other countries, the logic of implementing reforms in the field of social transfers is focused first on regular income recipients receiving different aid, only later on those without income. These changes establish a very reverse approach, reduce transfers to those without income, and impose incentives for better-situated layers. Some amendments to the Law allow better control over the payment of social transfers, such as the proposed solution for the recipient of regular social assistance to submit proof of intended consumption to the centre within 15 days of receipt, or to lose the right to exceptional financial assistance for 18 months after the month of receipt. The proposed repayment of aid, which was paid as a replacement form for the waiting period for a second-right solution, which is applied before financial social assistance, such as a financial compensation for unemployed persons, is a useful solution that does not reduce the social security of the unemployed. However, the dispute is the solution by which the job seeker will have to accept all work regardless of the type and level of education. Money social assistance shall not be eligible for a person who unwarrantedly refuses suitable work under a contract of business, a contract of copyright or an appropriate temporary or occasional humanitarian or other similar work. The beneficiary is not entitled to financial social assistance for the next six months. The abolition of financial support as punishment for refusing any work offered would make sense if sufficient jobs were available in Slovenia. In some other countries, which we like to take as a model in Slovenia, there is no trace of such extreme solutions. In Sweden, for example, they are suspended from payment of compensation or aid for 40 days if they do not accept adequate employment, they are reduced by 25% after the first refusal, and 50% of them are declined after the third refusal and the receipt of alternative resources and aid is discontinued. In Finland, however, compensation or aid shall not be paid to a person for 60 days if he refuses employment for no real reason. This is said to be more flexible and not so executive. With the successful implementation of the active employment policy so far, there is no doubt that we must continue to reduce the dependency of individuals on monetary social assistance and also by increasing the focus of social recipients on the reintegration of those affected into active life. The recipients of money aid must meet certain conditions for the preservation of these rights. The suspension of payment of cash aid must, however, be aimed at sanctioning those recipients who refuse employment corresponding to job experience and acquired education, which is also comparable to the conditions for payment of cash receipts in many other European countries. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have already pointed out, when adopting a motion for a resolution on the national social protection programme for the period 2006-2010, that it is inappropriate to solve problems in the area of payment of money aid. Already in the framework of an active employment policy, the activity of the beneficiaries and jobseekers is being promoted. The effectiveness of the measures so far should be analysed and the conditions may not be exacerbated blindly. However, the second issue raised by the very brave or very much on the knife of the social partners is the question of the integration of theologians into the circle of professional workers in social protection. The Social Chamber defines this solution as an ideological solution. In fact, the involvement of the university's diplomats in social protection works is in principle not problematic for us. In the Liberal Democracy, we don't think there should be a problem here if you don't hide a few traps. Since it is undoubtedly a general trend, the institution of which is the current authority which opens wide the door to the entry of RC into various legislative acts. What's opening up here? Some dilemmas and further consideration should be addressed. The question is whether the Theological Faculty offers sufficient basic knowledge in this area. The argument that employment of theologians will increase labour mobility and employment is certainly true. It is also true that lazi theologians may not be able to get a job, but that there is no easy way to get a job from graduate social workers, sociologists, psychologists and others. At this point, it is important to point out the thesis, which I repeat, only repeats, not only through social partners, but that these changes should aim to ensure that theologians take the lead in social protection institutions in which the owner, founder and manager are supposed to be religious organisations. This conclusion is also evident from the practice of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in granting concessions to providers of social security services, institutional protection of the elderly, especially Karitasu, which is part of the RCC. Karitas, as you know, is also a support provider for victims of trafficking in human beings this year, which was carried out years ago or long ago by Key. With regard to the Constitutional Court's decision, if I proceed only with some of the particulars of this law, the decision by which the institution of a family assistant has to settle and comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposed solutions raise some relevant issues that we have also wanted to close ourselves. Indeed, last year in 2005, we prepared and tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Social Protection Act, with which we wanted to regulate the real area of the family assistant. According to our bill, the financing of the Family Assistant Institute would be taken over by the whole country, which is obviously the most appropriate solution, more obvious than what we now have on the table, which raises quite a few questions and is not entirely consistent. But it is undoubtedly this decision of the Constitutional Court that is forcing us, or which will support us in our parliamentary group, that we are supporting the law and that the possible process is still being remedied. Let me add another point, namely that, under the current Social Protection Act, the Council of Experts has been set up to monitor policies and give initiatives and opinions on social protection development guidelines, according to the proposal of the law that we now have, as it also adds to the work of the professional council opinions on social security services and programmes, and to reiterate the opinion of the Slovenian Chamber of Social Affairs that this is an act of disciplining the Chamber because, in the last period of time, it has given too many negative opinions to applicants on concessions and in their opinion, perhaps even in their actual state, that the Minister should grant concessions in spite of negative assessments. In short, to repeat, the law should be examined in detail in the second reading in those parts which I referred to as a hollow part at the beginning of the presentation of the Group's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u23	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Madam Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Social Democrats' Group proposed that the National Assembly should hold a general debate in favour of the amendment and additions to the Social Protection Act because we believe that it offers certain solutions that we can agree with the Social Democrats, and that the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision is certainly one of those that we support by the Social Democrats. In addition, there are some such solutions that we cannot agree with and consider this treatment as a moment where we can make our proposals, and the proposaler believes that he will take them into account until the second treatment on the working body, at least we would expect him to take them into account. And whether or not these proposals will be taken into account depends on the final decision on how to express support for this law. The Social Protection Act should also be seen in the context of the adopted national social protection programme from 2006 to 2010, and a number of things could be repeated, particularly with regard to the financing and performance of concessional work. This law should also be dealt with in the context of the law amending and supplementing the law on employment and unemployment insurance. So allow me to touch at least two of the basics of this law. At the time announced, however, we have also foreseen discussions between colleagues and colleagues from the parliamentary group, which will add special emphasis to this general introduction. In the introduction to the law, the applicant announced the basic objective of the law, namely to improve the existing state of play in the allocation of monetary social assistance and to rationalise budgetary expenditure in the allocation of funds, which should be achieved by introducing more efficient and fairer award criteria, by promoting greater work activity, by rationalising spending on other incomes or by working in the course of receiving financial social assistance and by controlling the use of resources. In particular, the latter should include and make greater use of what has been brought about by the central database managed by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The second objective, according to the proposaler, is to improve the existing situation and rationalise financial expenditure in regulating the right to choose a family assistant. Not agreeing to a proposal for a law which was withdrawn by the promise that the Social Protection Act would regulate this area, but a somewhat vague fact that the applicant indicated that the solution set out in this law is only a transitional form to the system-wide regulation of this area in a specific law, this is a law on long-term care to be obtained in accordance with practice in some other European countries. The two objectives are also intended for the main part of the introductory part of the law. Only in showing the financial consequences of the law do other changes brought about by law appear. Thus, higher expenditure is foreseen for services of full-day institutional protection within the public service network, which will require the provision of funds to the health insurance institution, 110 million [[This brings forth Article 28]] However, the expansion of the capacity of full-day institutional protection will also increase the expenditure of municipalities for 30 million Slovenian tolls intended for those beneficiaries who do not have sufficient own resources. Here is the question of what opinion the local community has on this proposed solution, and I am thinking of all the many local communities. In addition, the law also provides a solution in Article 30 of the Act, which is not mentioned in the introductory part, which extends the range of those who are considered to be adequately qualified to manage social protection works. The proposer predicts that the overall financial impact will be positive for the budget, i.e. for public funds, and we ask Social Democrats whether the proposed changes will guarantee at least equal social security, if not better, given that social security is the most important component of the social state for us. It is difficult to accept the conclusion that savings will be sufficient to cover all the other expenditure incurred by the proposed changes without asking what this means for the level of social security of the most vulnerable groups. This is particularly true in the case of financial social assistance, which is the last form of assistance in the money aid network, which should enable a person or family to survive at a time when it cannot provide a minimum income for survival. It points out that the arrangements we have so far have been limited to three months at the time of the first allocation, that they can be re-allocated for six months in unaltered circumstances, no matter what, but can be allocated for a maximum of one year, except for a longer period of time, if no improvement can be expected due to age, disability, illness or other circumstances. Of course, we support the direction of greater activation of the unemployed. However, we do not agree to a direction that is more focused on sanctioning abuses that become a criterion for introducing new solutions than on planning activation measures. That is why we have given the Social Democrats a special look at what changes to the Social Protection Act have brought about in comparison with the Employment and Insurance Act in the case of unemployment. It seems unacceptable to us that sanctions in the law in question are more stringent than those in the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act. And now allow me to list only some specific concerns and proposals under individual articles of the law. If I first touch the first part of the law that speaks of a family assistant, it appears to the Social Democrats that the envisaged funding of the family assistant by contributions from the debtors for the maintenance and burden of the property of the beneficiary to the family assistant is disputed. This concern is also related to some other findings, including with assistance at home, to introduce this criterion to reduce the range of those who wish to exercise this right due to the negative effects of the criteria introduced. We believe that there is no need to transfer the power to decide on the right of a family assistant to a disability commission, since the social component of the problem must be taken into account in the case of a family assistant. A solution would also be acceptable if, when deciding on the right of a family assistant, the disability commission were strengthened with representatives of the social work centre or local community, given that this form was introduced also due to some problems faced by long-term unemployed persons. The extension of the range of those who may be involved as operators or operators of this role as a family assistant has also been adopted in the previous mandate on the proposal of the current Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and would expect more attention to be given to regulating this area. I would now like to touch on the area related to the granting of monetary social assistance. We insist that the obligation to adopt appropriate work should be defined in the same way for recipients of financial social assistance and recipients of monetary compensation. It is unacceptable, therefore, that the recipient of financial social assistance can be forced into any kind of work, regardless of his education and qualifications. 36.b Article 36b states that the recipient of a cash refund which is not a beneficiary of a cash benefit in the event of unemployment is obliged, at the time of receiving a financial social assistance, to accept any employment and then to work properly under a contract of employment or a contract of employment of the author, and after three months of receiving financial assistance, to receive appropriate temporary or occasional humanitarian or other similar work offered to him or directed by the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment, where humanitarian work may also be free of charge or paid. Both options are open. There should also be clear conditions under which a suitable work may be rejected and who decides on the grounds of rejection. Automatism in the loss of the right to financial social assistance is not permissible in this case. We also find the provision in Article 36d, which states that it cannot refuse humanitarian work without due cause or justification. And in such a case, he loses his right to financial social assistance. What is behind the expression of proper justification? I have pointed out the following point made by the Social Democrats in the previous one, but it refers to the provision of Article 30 of the Law, which includes graduate theologians in the area of those who can work in the field of social protection. This is particularly because we believe that there is insufficient professional justification for whether the programme by which theologians are educated and given some basic behaviours and knowledge in the family field is sufficient for them to be able to carry out quality work, especially because the national social protection programme in the award of concessions and the possibilities for those who will be able to perform these works is very broad, while the conditions for the award of concessions and standards are no longer strictly prescribed as they have been prescribed so far. And let me touch one last comment. This refers to Article 38 and the issue of family assistant financing. It has been heard that the municipalities agree with 0.35% of the share. However, as far as the Social Democrats are aware, the municipalities represented the view that the border should not be different from 0.25%. As it is said, these are some of the fundamental concerns that the Social Democrats have in this law and support for the law depends also on how the applicants respond to our comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u25	Thank you. Mag. Franc Capuder will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The current arrangements for the system of financial social assistance and the regulation of the area of family assistants have resulted from amendments to the Social Protection Act in 2001 and 2004. During the implementation of the law, it has been shown that solutions in marriage are not always optimal or often do not produce the expected results. In some cases, however, there has also been abuse of the solutions prescribed in the law. Even for the solutions introduced by the amendment of the Family Helper Act in 2004, it has been shown that they are not effective enough and that they could be improved. At the same time, the Constitutional Court found that some of the solutions in the current Social Protection Act were not in conformity with the Constitution and should be aligned with the Constitutional Court's decision. The main objectives of the proposed amendments are, in particular, two: improving the current situation and rationalising budgetary expenditure in the provision of monetary social assistance and improving the current situation and rationalising financial expenditure in the regulation of the right to choose a family assistant. According to data, there were an average of 62,000 beneficiaries of monetary social assistance in 2002, and in 2004 there were as many as 90,000 beneficiaries. In 2002, 18 billion Slovenian tolars were paid for cash social assistance and almost 33 billion in 2004. It is noted that among all beneficiaries of this aid, 30 % of the long-term beneficiaries who have received aid at least 24 times in the last three years. In particular, the fact that there are many young people among the recipients of the aid is a worrying one. In December 2004, there were just over 27,000 investors for financial social assistance under 27 years of age, representing 43% of whom were 11 000 long-term beneficiaries who had received assistance at least 24 times in the last three years. These data mainly indicate that the beneficiaries of monetary social assistance are increasingly dependent on these aids by increasing the receipt of aid. In Nova Slovenija we are convinced that the beneficiaries of money social assistance are often offered a suitable job, although this is only an occasional job or work for a certain time, but they do not accept the work offered. For this reason, in our party we welcome the solution provided for in Article 12 of the amendments to the law and say that it is not an excuse for social assistance that unwarrantedly rejects proper work under an enterprise contract or contract for the procurement of works of copyright or appropriate temporary or occasional humanitarian or other similar work. We are convinced that the recipients of financial social assistance must work all the time to improve their material situation primarily. For this reason, any unjustified refusal to work should be regarded as a sign of rejection of the possibility of obtaining livelihoods with its own work. Amendments to the law provide incentives for employers who employ a long-term unemployed person. The proposed amendment, in addition to the conclusion of the fixed-term employment contract, also introduces the possibility of concluding a fixed-term employment contract, thereby encouraging employers to employ recipients of financial social assistance even if they do not wish to conclude an indefinite-term contract with the recipient of financial social assistance. In doing so, the recipients of financial social assistance shall at least be temporarily involved in the working relationship, be activated, involved in the work process and thus be given the opportunity to develop working experience and acquire new ones at that time. The amendments are also intended to encourage the recipient of social assistance to become more involved in the work process in a way that is not exclusively linked to the level of his education or the work he carried out prior to the occurrence of unemployment. At the same time, it also provides a basis for the preparation of active employment policy programmes aimed at beneficiaries of financial social assistance, for several purposes, in particular to maintain working habits, contacts with the environment, to gain work experience, to increase their social inclusion in society and to contribute to the general social benefit through work. We are convinced that by avoiding such work obligations, it is itself reducing its ability to provide its own means of survival, thus indirectly influencing its social or material position. In New Slovenia we support the resolution of the law that it is necessary to allow social work centres to obtain from the registry manager of the investor's transaction accounts and his family members from the register of registered vehicles and some other databases the relevant information they need for their work. A major problem with monetary social assistance is the credibility of the data by which beneficiaries demonstrate the eligibility of such aid. Investors with sufficient savings or assets that could be used for survival are also often asked for assistance, but have not been cited in the process of determining the right to such assistance. For some time now, some congregations have consistently pointed to the difficulties they have in financing the right to choose a family helper. Under the Social Protection Act, this is financed by the municipality. First, this institution of a family helper was meant for those who had been disabled since birth. However, if this were arranged only for the disabled, of course others would be discriminated against, so it extended to other disabled persons. Later, the amendment extended to older people on the amendment of the 2004 Act, significantly increasing the number of beneficiaries of family helpers. According to some data, the problem is pronounced mainly in 18 municipalities, although the Ministry of Finance has granted higher funds to municipalities in the 2005 budget, but the problem is the uneven burden of municipalities where the institution of family assistant is used, so in Nova Slovenija we support the solution as proposed by the government in the law. In Article 30 of the novel of the Law on Social Protection, university education with appropriate specialisation has also been added to the course of vocational education, which is appropriate for the provision of social protection services. We know that theological faculty is a member of the University of Ljubljana, its graduates are given the title of university graduate theologian or graduate theologian in a 3-year university study. The Faculty also conducts postgraduate specialist studies on marital and family therapy and I am confident that these graduates will acquire the necessary knowledge during the course of the study to provide individual social protection services and that these skills are comparable to those of the students in the above-mentioned directions already listed in Article 69 of the Basic Law. And we are confident in our Group that this solution only equals graduates or gives them the opportunity to work as comparable programmes for other universities. And I don't see anything wrong with that, but the discrimination that we have or could have witnessed is being eliminated. In Novi Slovenija we will support changes to the Social Protection Act. However, we expect the proposed changes to improve the current situation and rationalise the use of budgetary expenditure in the provision of both monetary social assistance and improve the situation in the area of the Family Assistant Institute. Finally, the solutions proposed now are consistent with the social partners, according to the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I welcome the team with the minister and all of you colleagues and colleagues! The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Protection Act has been drafted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for more than a year and now, as a general consideration, has finally begun the procedure, which is good. One of the main aims of the bill is to re-establish the funding of a family assistant, whom we claim as a social service in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that is a good solution in the social welfare system. The inconceivable or simplified system of financing this service or the family assistant directly from the budget of the municipality has overburdened the individual municipalities, so they have already tried to resolve these issues by means of a bill to transfer the financing of this service from the municipal budget to the state budget, which has not been adopted. This question is resolved by the current proposal by a disabled person who chooses a family assistant for the purposes of care and protection, retains the right to an allowance for assistance and service, and by a written declaration undertakes to transfer these funds to the benefit of the congregation responsible for the payment of the selected family assistant. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we accept this solution as a good and just solution, but we also note that the difference that the municipality will have to cover in favour of the family assistant service will still be quite significant and for some of the mayor will still be an unfair and excessive burden. However, this obligation is substantially reduced in the event that the disabled person or his or her debtors co-finance the services themselves in relation to their payment capacity. In this case, or the amount of the contribution of the beneficiary of the service or his or her debtor shall be decided by the Centre for Social Work and, according to the experience of practice, the question of eligibility from the Centre for Social Work as an arbitrator in determining the income status of the provider or the debtor shall be raised. The bill also provides that the municipality which is responsible for financing family assistant rights gives an opinion on the documentation prepared by the competent centre for social work and is primarily intended for the disability commission, which we consider to be good. The draft law also imposes sanctions where the disabled person or provider acts contrary to the provision under which the aid and service allowance is payable to the municipality. In the parliamentary group, we believe that if, in the practice of financing a family assistant proposed by this law, the fear that the burden of the congregation will still be too great, this funding will have to be set down in a completely different way. For now, we will support the solution. However, the second key change brought about by the proposal for this amendment concerns issues relating to more specific conditions and criteria for receiving financial social assistance and, first, to the income of the recipient person. In this case, too, the Centre for Social Work is a key arbitrator and in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we hope that the centres for social work are sufficiently qualified to do so, and we believe that effective supervision of their work will be essential. However, the same or even more effective supervision on the basis of this proposal of the law should be imposed on the actual behaviour of employers in the practice, implementation or use of incentive measures for employment, as provided for in the new Article 36a. In the parliamentary group, we support the solutions that the proposal brings to the work obligation of the recipient of monetary social assistance, and we hope that the competence of the social work centres and the indirect employment agency will also be exercised in a responsible and fair manner or that this necessary correction, which we accept as an emergency in the parliamentary group, will not be misused in the opposite direction as it is being abused now. The parliamentary group supports the bill as a good basis for further consideration and expects the applicant to examine the comments of some institutions which have already addressed their comments on the proposal for a law by the beginning of the second reading. Here, first of all, we are referring to the Community's material for the protection of the working centres of Slovenia, which we believe would make sense, as they suggest, to be incorporated into the law for the second treatment or in the process of the second treatment. As has already been said, we support that the law continues its course, and in the second reading, we correct and finalize things that may be part of this bill, as we are experiencing it in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u29	Thank you. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u30	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners notes with regret that the proposed changes and additions to the Social Protection Act are relatively poorly prepared, but will nevertheless experience our support. In doing so, we expect to take into account all that is to be put in our common debate today as a bad solution, and we are confident that the law with many amendments will have to be corrected, in terms of more direct, purer provisions and easier implementation. The question of a family assistant is, in our opinion, quite complicated and inconclusive and the right to social social assistance to date is complex. With the consent of the beneficiaries of the aid and service allowance, the family assistant is expected to finance the ZPIZ and the families, if any, the municipalities. The country that invented the institution of a family helper is only exceptional if, at the end of all other options, something is still missing and some of the funds are being resonated with the congregations. We find such a solution more than questionable. Social social support as the only source of survival is expected to miraculously plummet to a smaller number because the recipients will enter the labour market in a mass way, although temporarily and seasonally. As if the increase in the number of recipients of social social assistance would not be the result of increasing poverty, on the one hand, and the lack of jobs when it comes to recipients of employment, on the other hand. In doing so, we are thinking mainly of the vast number of young people whose percentage of receiving this aid is very high and who have not received an adequate job after many years. With regard to the family assistant, only the disabled person’s term goes through all the changes in the articles without need, even though it is in the palm of his hand that the family helper may also be needed by the patients or the disabled elderly. The state appoints a family assistant at the expense of others, and social welfare is too common because of those who do not want to work or those who cheat. The fact that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has every opportunity to address abuses under existing mechanisms does not mean that the APZ, this is an active employment policy, does not produce the necessary results, but it is not so important. We are to come to the abuse of social and social assistance and we believe that they are and have also been discovered in the past, but let these abuses be addressed differently, not through solutions in this law. In doing so, we are also referring to solutions relating to the entry into the labour market of recipients of social and social assistance, where solutions are possible to over-implement subjective views on what is the right work for whom and what are the appropriate reasons for rejecting such work. We believe that these provisions will require thorough corrections. It is interesting, however, that the legislator wants to take care of theologians who, in the way proposed, have nothing and whose unemployment is more concerned than hundreds of unemployed deliberately trained sociologists. Theology study is designed to serve the Catholic Church and advocate dogma. There is reasonable doubt as to the suitability of the employment of theologians in the field of social protection services, as their views are based on archaic understandings, gender relations, the issue of contraception, the birth of illegitimate children, divorce and the like. Therefore, we do not think that such views fall within the social protection profession of today. The definition of financial consequences is bad, because from everything that's written down there, it's impossible to tell exactly what's going to happen, and we think there's a lot better to prepare. In a part where the law speaks of institutional protection, which hospitals are supposed to provide with their free capacities after the end of treatment only because these people have no place to live in existing homes for the elderly, or if they cannot be provided with the necessary social and health care and care at home. I have to say, this thing is questionable because it doesn't say who's going to pay for it. If this is at the expense of health insurance funds, it would also suggest having the appropriate consent of the health insurance institution of the relevant Ministry. True, many thousands of such beds would be needed to care for them today, but we will not be able to provide for the elderly in a halted home. Expecting that these beds will ever be provided with private capital in the future, however, are completely flawed and groundless. We have information that this moment in Europe is closing down on hundreds, not five or ten, of hundreds of private-owned homes, because they do not make adequate profits and because of this as a private initiative, investors leave them. This will also happen with us, while there will be a big hole in the spatial capacity. And that is because, in this way, I would say, a simplified way of trying to show these things, say, so that we can do more to continue building homes and providing institutional protection to those who need only health and social care, which is at home we will never be able to provide in a cheaper way than in homes. Even now, home aid is much more expensive than the one we have in our day - to - day homes if we count it an hour. We will support this law as a basis on which it can be built, but we will try to make amendments in a way that will make the final solution more transparent and acceptable to everyone concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u31	Thank you. This concludes the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with co-worker and co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, he presented the position of their leader right in front of me and I can say that I fully agree with him or with his position. It was such an opposition attitude towards this law, even though it comes from the government coalition, but I think it is necessary and this is the right approach that we should have in this House, regardless of where the party or the parliamentary group comes from. The criticisms that have been said today are, of course, convincing me and, of course, my knowledge of the fact that this law cannot be supported even in the first reading, because, as the coalition Members usually say in opposition laws, it is so bad that in the second reading it cannot be substantially improved. And I guess I could use those words myself today. The Minister spoke about the law that belongs to this partnership package. Let me say that the negotiations have been very successful. Of all the comments we have made by partners of the Social Democrats, the Ministry accepts one comment, namely that the two articles are combined with the text, which is in one article and the other, they are linked and one article is written. This is all that has been achieved in these partnership agreements. Thus, this law of partnership, at least on our part, is certainly not according to the information I have. And what does this Act on Amendments and Complements of the Social Protection Act provide? It foresees or wants to reduce, in particular, the pressure on cash financial social assistance. But it is no way to do something to improve the conditions, for example young people, that percentages have been talked about on behalf of sent groups, especially by Mr Brenčič, that is, too many are young people who have no work and who are putting pressure on cash social assistance. But why? Not because they don't want to work, but because they don't have a job. At least a large majority. So with new jobs, we would have made it possible to reduce the pressure on this cash register and, of course, that would be logical. It is not logical, however, to tighten the criteria for punishing all on average because abuses are being committed. Yes, of course they are. Even within these groups, individuals who do not want to work are somehow satisfied with what they receive. Besides, they're kind of getting through their lives. Even in the case of employers, I agree, the control over the resources they receive from the various headings of employment should be strengthened. However, we need to view monetary social assistance primarily as an emergency exit, an emergency exit for people on the verge of survival or a step forward who do not have any means of living with dignity. And they're getting cash social assistance. Believe me, these people are not happy to go there, and they are not happy to expose themselves as those who have been led by life to have no work and no means of survival. And when we talk about unemployment even within this law, all too often in this house, and still, we want the unemployed to be seen as part-time workers, like those who do not want work, who are not looking for active work, and therefore have to be punished and determined work, and if they refuse to do so, they will be punished by not receiving money aid. Some are such, and in some cases I agree with these sanctions. But most people are looking for work. Member offices, I don't know what it's like with other colleagues and colleagues, but I in Velenje see that people come to me mainly because they're unemployed because they need help because they don't know where else to turn to survive. And it's not true that people don't look for jobs. In recent days or weeks we have witnessed, for example, the abolition of jobs for 200 disabled persons in Velenje. How are these people with disabilities gonna get a job? It is necessary to find an answer here, not to look for opportunities to prevent these people from receiving social assistance or any other assistance. The law that we are considering today is not a good law and should be substantially amended. And I quite agree with what has already been said that this will be difficult to arrange at second reading. Family assistant. Legislation has made it possible for family helpers to be, and it is right that they are. But the state has decided nicely that this is the expense of the local community. The Constitutional Court has acted here and the decision of the Constitutional Court must be respected. And there's something that needs to be changed. But the way we've chosen is that 0.35% of the eligible spending is that the milestone, when we say, is being paid by the congregation itself, from here on out the obligation to take over the country, means that the smaller municipalities, the smaller local communities will gain something by it, and all those self-financing will remain on the same. We are taking such measures in the direction that no more municipalities in Slovenia will be self-financing. We will slowly come to the conclusion that everyone will have to be compensated in order to be able to perform the tasks that local communities have to perform. And when we're talking about work. Before, I kind of forgot to mention that now we're asking someone to take every job, it's not real and it's not a good move. And something that somehow ended earlier in the hall, when a colleague of Shirca on behalf of the LDS delegation also mentioned the involvement or placement of the RDC or the church in this system. And once again, Minister, in the past year, you have tendered for a home concession for the elderly and three out of four concessions have been awarded to institutions established by local parishes, Karitas, and now you will allow this law to reach a cheap workforce with compulsory humanitarian work, and you have completed the cycle and settled the matter. Of course it's not the right way. The only good thing in the law that I see for myself is this new 28th article, which introduces a new 41st article and talks about this long-term care that has long been in the debate in this Parliament. A few of the questions sent were on the subject and the answers and it was always so if you asked the Minister of Health, he said that it was under the responsibility of the Minister of Labour, if you were different, an excuse was similar, but turned to the other side. This is cross-cutting coordination and we will have to agree on how and what. But this is an emergency, so I welcome this decision. It is also necessary to find the answer to who will pay for this long - term care. But this can't be an excuse for not having you for long-term care. If I finish. In my opinion, the law is weak and will not receive my support for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that some questions have been asked or some arguments that do not hold true, I am obliged to provide answers or clarifications. As for the victims of trafficking in human beings, it was granted to the organization, not to the one who performed it so far, Key. Only one contractor applied for the call, so far the Key has not signed in, we don't know why not. However, I will give you clear information that the Key with its programmes helps victims of human trafficking on the basis of the "Equal" project, which includes more than 50 million, and we do not want to discriminate in this way. All that is good is welcomed, but what is not good is to be corrected. Graduated theologians. Theological faculty is an integral part of the university, and I think it's time to stop discrimination in the third millennium. Theologians have a profile of education and should have equal entry opportunities to work in social protection. We do not want any privileges, but we want the same position as for other professions. It is important that as many people as possible create this image of social protection, why they should discriminate. Moreover, it is clear that they are qualified to do so. And some such statements were given that were ideologically oriented. I think it's time these labels weren't used anymore. Then it was a matter of the congregation’s agreement and so on. This law has been fully supported by the social partners in the Economic and Social Council, of course those present cannot ask those who have not been present. They also gave their consent to both communities. It's just a fact. There was a statement that they did not give their consent. These 0.35% were also aligned with both associations of municipalities. Family assistant. In financial terms, the position of a family assistant is significantly better for users, and above all it is significantly better from the point of view of providing funds from local communities. Why is there a different approach in offering work for those who are beneficiaries of compensation to those who are recipients of monetary social assistance? The monetary compensation is due to the insurance relationship, the entry into insurance. As you know, all those who are employed or have a different way of providing employment pay a contribution to this social security. That is why we have understood and proposed a solution to take into account the level of professional education in deciding whether a particular rejection is justified or not; this fact is very important here. However, I would like to make it clear that the level of remuneration is not so dependent on the level of vocational education. You also know that many auto mechanics earn more than professors and the like - that from the point of view of receipts it is not entirely merodeous data. Finally, we will also have to respect this principle that every work is honorable and that every work is of value. And if someone is a recipient of financial social assistance, then we consider, as in other countries, that he is obliged to respond to humanitarian work, to charity work or to work that also provides adequate income. If he refuses, no one pursues him, but he chooses to have his own income. Why not allow people to have their own income and not choose their own employment? That's why we're not gonna bully anyone. Let us also allow a different thinking that some people do not need to enter employment because they have enough wealth, have plenty of other sources of livelihood or have a partner who is worthy of living. And they don't want to get hired. Let's allow this freedom. However, if we do not accept it, of course it means that they are not being paid out of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Pojbich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u36	Your Honor! The new Social Protection Act touches on two main areas, namely monetary social assistance and family helpers. In today's debate, I will talk mainly about financial social assistance. The amount of social cash assistance started to be determined on the basis of the basic amount of the minimum income, the full amount of which has been applied since 1.1.2003, when the full amount of the minimum income, which today amounts to 46,981 SIT, was fully achieved. It is also true that the number of recipients of financial social assistance from year to year is increasing, with more than 90 000 beneficiaries receiving this aid in 2004. The realisation of the spending on cash social assistance was thus almost SIT 33 billion in 2004, namely SIT 32.8 billion. Let me give you the information provided by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. It is worrying that there are many young people among the recipients of financial social assistance. In December 2004, there were 27 000 61 investors for financial social assistance under the age of 27, representing a total of 43%. Of these, there are 11,000 long-term beneficiaries who have received financial social assistance at least 24 times over the last three years. What can we conclude from this? Older people are becoming more and young people are gaining months at the employment agency instead of working experience. The Student Organisation of Slovenia could play an important role in speeding up the employment of young people, but with the support of student service owners it is hard to defend its trenches. By regulating the field of student work, the figures for young recipients of financial social assistance could be much more encouraging. But no. The student organisation, due to its own games, is making the positions of young graduates in the labour market worse, and the Union of Free Trade Unions is happy to assist them. So the world's wrong! The solutions provided for in the amendments to the law in this area, the recipients of employment or occasional income shall be taken into account when deciding on eligibility for financial social assistance as early as the following month from their inception and not at a three-month delay. And not only in the middle, but in the whole amount. A single person or family who has a registered permanent residence at the same address or who is in fact staying with non-family members under this law and has sufficient own means of subsistence shall be reduced by 30% of the minimum income that would be due to her if she had no other income. The recipient of exceptional financial assistance must provide proof of purposeful use to the centre of social work within 15 days of receipt, or lose his right for 18 months after the month of receipt. Money social assistance shall be returned, which has been paid as a replacement form of assistance for the time of waiting for a solution under the second right which is exercised before financial social assistance, since in these cases the recipient of the financial social assistance receives payment under other applicable rights back, and in the same period he has also received financial social assistance. Up to now, the subsidisation of the employment of recipients of cash social assistance for an indefinite period of time, as proposed in the material, is further enhanced by the form of temporary but not less than 12 months of subsidisation of employment. However, the scheme for payment of subsidies is transformed from a single payment into a monthly payment method that will prevent and limit potential abuses or simplify recovery procedures that could occur if the single payment system continued. So those of you who don't support this law will certainly pull out of your hands the one about marrying a threat to the social state. Let us ask ourselves whether it is right for someone to receive multiple social adjustments at once, which together can bear much more than someone with an average salary in Slovenia. For example, if you receive monetary social assistance cca. Forty-seven thousand dollars is more likely to get a subsidized community or social housing about. Twenty thousand dollars. In the case of children, you are entitled to the payment of cca kindergarten. 90 grand, not to mention. Someone else who's lucky or unhappy to have a job gets paid and the rest? [[...]] I believe that the current system has rewarded or given comfort to a passive lifestyle, but it needs to be changed by rewarding an active lifestyle. The second part of the bill refers to family helpers. First of all, it is necessary to mention the decision of the Constitutional Court requiring the harmonisation of the law with the Constitution in this field, since the municipalities of the State have been given a new task and the State has not provided all municipalities with the additional financial resources necessary to carry out the task. At this point, I would point out that there is no ideal solution in such cases. The state cannot impose new and new obligations on municipalities without such or other assistance. On the other hand, municipalities need to be aware that the country is not an infinite dairy cow and that in recent budgets there has been a great deal of attention paid to compensation for the municipalities. The main funding dispute is best described in Article 38 of the Law, which states that, pending the adoption of the new system legislation governing the financing of municipalities, municipalities in which the costs of financing the family assistant’s rights exceed 0.35% of the eligible expenditure shall, in accordance with the law governing the financing of municipalities, be provided with a difference over that amount after the end of the financial year from the state budget. In my opinion, this is a compromise which, given the fact that municipal funding legislation will change, is the best solution at this point. It should be noted that the law was created in cooperation with the associations of municipalities on a solution in the area of family support financing and with the social partners on a solution to the more transparent and fair allocation of financial social assistance. So the law is coordinatedly prepared. Let me finish. The new law is a new step towards social and economic reforms. I am particularly pleased that the changes in the work that touch on monetary social assistance are directed towards the active participation of all actors in the search for employment. I therefore believe that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. We will support the draft law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I must say, I am quite pleased that this subject has finally come to the National Assembly. Let me remind you that I also had a question on this subject for Mr Drobnič, who promised that he would soon come to the National Assembly with this law. Now she's here, and it seems to me that this is an area where I can also speak as an ex-employee, mayor and MP, and I have some insight and some experience. Therefore, I can say that the changes to the Social Protection Act, which are now indicated in the first reading, are an important step forward due to the many arguments that I will make later. I am pleased that coordination was also with the social partners and with both associations or communities of Slovenian municipalities representing the interests of those who are members, which is the majority. I believe that this coordination has been quite successful and that it is probably in the interests of both local communities and the country that the appropriate compromise has somehow been found; but a little later. I believe that these reforms are really necessary, because in many cases this is already a way of abuse of this instrument, how to fine-tune the country for the kind of money you can get, definitely. Unfortunately, the beneficiaries are growing a lot. The data show that this Slovenia is not so bad, and this is where the number of beneficiaries is increasing and increasing. So there's something wrong. Inflation, well-being, one, three, that's growing. There's been some kind of irregular breakthrough that I don't think is holding. Greater flexibility in this area is urgently needed, greater justice, control - it is simply not or is very bad. And I say that these enormous funds of taxpayers in the social field have gone beyond many such and different legalities in the environment, in society as such and, of course, have not been controlled. I am convinced that many young people who complete such or other education really find it difficult to get a job right away, especially in an environment that is underdeveloped, where there are fewer opportunities, such as Posavje, Zasavje, White Landscape and so on. But it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that there are also many young people, who are very selective, who would like to have something special, a well-paid job, a little work, a free Saturday and Sunday, not to talk about anything else. Such services are not easy for the first job, especially in an environment where there is sufficient opportunity for young people in particular. I don't want to do injustice to those who want to do it, but I know a lot of cases from the environment where I'm the mayor, where it's the right pay for the right job, and young people last fourteen days or a month, and then they say I won't do it, and that's not good, and I have to work on Saturday and so on - and they go. And they go back to where they came from. Is that fair? I am convinced that every healthy citizen who has reached the age of 18 and has received some education is also obliged to work in this society. Debt, not that "truck" is over such and different options, state, social and I don't know what employment institutions etc., and waiting for some better times, but in the meantime a bit of "truck", one through student service, and a little bit from the country is made up. Unfortunately, these are the facts of life. You may be taking one for your head, but, unfortunately, you may live somewhere else. I say injustice, I don't give it to everyone, a certain layer of people like that, and I also speak with a case of practice. I have a number of cases in local communities that have been unemployed for a long time and somehow don't find a job or ask that they don't find it because they're better off where they are. First time. Someone's already been talking to me, free daycare, that help, that extra and buying a month's worth, believe me, is significantly better than the workers who work in Fox for $80,000. Why would I be looking for a job because I'm better off where I am? But I have to work there, I have a standard, I have to get up, I have to go to work, and so on, and in the end, I pay for kindergarten and I don't know who. Hence, it is not incomprehensible to have an interest in the work, simply missing it and looking for it in such a way that it is not found. Many employers in the environment from which I come say they come to them with a job card and ask, sign, but they wouldn't go to work, they wouldn't go. This thing is wrong, ladies and gentlemen, something is wrong. If I do wrong, I come, I speak from many employers, directors, owners of businesses, who accuse me that it is in fact the silence of the employment institution for many of our citizens, many, not all, is a fact. All respect and assistance to those in need are disabled, sick and otherwise, and this country must provide support and financial assistance so that they can live a normal human life. But unfortunately, there are too many who rely on these and other options. I hope that, through this first hearing and later with the additions of this legislation, we can further improve this law together and try to bring it through the process to an end and to enforce it as soon as possible, because I think that for Slovenia and these reforms, which must also follow in this area, it is imperative that we also ask ourselves here who this aid is needed, who does not and who does not, and who unfairly uses it to taxpayers for years after unnecessary use. Another thing that makes me feel very sorry for, a family assistant. You've already talked about him, we've been talking about him, and I have to say that this was some story that, of course, can be positive, but on the other hand, it places a heavy burden on certain congregations. Perhaps this consensus has been found primarily for those slightly better, larger, richer congregations, this 0.35 will probably somehow change and will somehow go through. For those small municipalities, however, it is likely that they will be more financially dependent, but this will be slightly more affected by the pocket of the local budget. However, I believe that these negotiations, coordinations have been and that even after all as a member of the Slovenian municipalities community, that they have also negotiated down for our congregation and that this compromise has been reached with the Ministry and that it will somehow take a step further in accordance with the Constitutional Court and in accordance with what is likely in each municipality every mayor takes on when he adopts the budget, because sometimes this item is also a total of 50 million annual budgets for a municipality with 20,000 inhabitants. These are not small items, these are extremely large items in the budget of each municipality. And with that help at home, the speech was different again from environment to environment. Somewhere we have this well organised, this job that works well, and I think it is in the satisfaction of many citizens, the elderly in particular, who need help at home, but above all I am talking about the environment that is not urban. In such environments, where people live in rural areas with such or other lifestyles, there is a change in the home of an extremely big change, believe me, and these people want to stay as long as possible in their humble homes with some minimal help that they can get through it, and in some ways even if I'm honest, cheaper for society, cheaper for the congregation, especially better for it or for it. These are people's experiences, they tell me, who have lived for 70 years or more on a modest farm, is home to him, even though it's ideal for everything in there, of course some change that many don't accept and want and want to defend. And this help at home is certainly a suitable instrument, although it is not cheap, I agree, it is not cheap, but for these older persons and assistance one suitable form of care is needed for such and other care. We will only expand them, because we will not be coming to all these homes to build new ones, to send all people to a nursing home, we will want them in our community, because it will cost the local community as long as possible to make life possible at home, where they have lived their whole lives. And in the end, the well-respected minister, the ministry. In the debates that will continue, I would like to see this matter brought to an end as soon as possible, because I am sure that many citizens are behind it, those who are doing well, who are working 8, 10 hours a day, because today 8 is too small, and those who are laughing through such and different lines. I have many cases in the local community when both of them are unemployed and happy to bring the children into kindergarten, and all the other things, they set a bad example for society according to local communities, because I have to work and he doesn't need to. This is not right for this society and this time where we live, and I think this reform is not fair, and I believe that this step will take one more step, but at least to some extent we will be more balanced between citizens or that we will have similar rights for one another and other citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Well, eight hours of work a day will be enough, 16 hours ago they worked 200 years ago, by the way. As far as my response is concerned, just for a little while, because there's no time, regarding the family assistant. In the law, what I understand best is the recognition of the Ministry that we had Members and Members who proposed a change of law last year, okay. The Ministry now follows our demand by amending this law that the one who assigns tasks to the congregations also pay the costs. Part of this law follows, but not entirely. That we were right was also confirmed by our Constitutional Court, which said that the task or jurisdiction without the consent of the municipalities was not respected by the Constitution, because they were not provided with financial resources, that it was not true, as the Ministry claimed to be a substitute service of some kind, and a whole series of other observations by the Constitutional Court were listed which required the law to be amended. And now that the law has changed, we can be satisfied in one part, namely, in the part that speaks of the recognition that the state must settle the obligations imposed on the congregations but not entirely. For this recognition that the State must do something, we must thank the Minister, but for that part, which is still missing, I would like to say that, for the first time, the Minister is late for a number of months in connection with the Constitutional Court decision, the municipalities had to pay in between. The second one, which is considered obvious. The obligations of the congregations have been established before and will in some way have to be reimbursed to the congregations. And third, what I would like to say is that the municipalities do not decide first and not now, as the Constitutional Court has requested, because it does not mean to give an opinion, it is still up to the State through CSD, and we can give a weak opinion and these things will have to be corrected in the second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u42	Surely the preparation of this law is beneficial and necessary, if not necessary, for the sake of the family helper and his funding. It is also probably right to think about how to make and ensure appropriate solutions for citizens and citizens who, under the Social Protection Act, receive money and wish or, as some claim, would not want to have a job. I think there are a lot of questions about this, a lot of better solutions than there have been so far, and a lot of simplifications. It would be very nice for me to accept the claim that I stand for when I monitor the genetics of this legislation, because it is the case of the disabled and the like, to adopt a social protection law regarding compensation as a continuation of those, because we have reduced the rights that we once had from the unemployment insurance law. We have substantially reduced these rights, halved them, and at the same time knew if we do so, then it is not possible to leave people without such rights as to guarantee them minimum survival, and we must also give them certain rights and give them rights from the Social Protection Act, but this is essentially a problem of unemployment. I think it's right that we say this and that through this dawn, and then we evaluate the solutions in this law. And I agree that it is right that the solutions in the law are such that, for the first time, we offer employment opportunities, we work too little here, I know that this is not the content of this law, that this is the content of the law on unemployment insurance, and that is what we say, we save too little, and that is why I said at the outset that the connection between the two solutions is precisely because, after that law, we have cut down, reduced rights and transferred them to this law. Therefore, even here, although there is no content here, we need to think first of all about how to provide more people with employment opportunities. And the basic objective must be only, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues, the possibility of suitable employment. The basic objective cannot be the possibility of any employment and anyone who is not prepared to accept any employment, especially if it is a young person who has completed a school and would like to use a school that he has finished, even useful in his life, say no, hire anywhere, because many times then this job is also a job for a very long time or for a permanent one. Once a year, two, three you work in a third profession, not only get used to it, but when a job is found for your profession, you are told that you are five or eight years old or ten years old, but in purely other parts and therefore have no qualifications to carry out your job. And I think it is extremely bad to look at this problem mainly from the point of view of the country, to whom it will give, to whom it will not give, to whom it deserves, to whom it does not, but not in terms of creating appropriate jobs. And when it comes to creating the right jobs, to offering the right jobs, then I am in favour of absolutely ensuring that the obligation to accept this part is ensured and sanctioning the non-acceptance of such part by also losing the right. What is the content of this proposal when it is an obligation to accept any work, I think it is inappropriate and I think it shows that it is necessary to think again, in particular, about those who have completed a certain education and are looking for an appropriate job - doqualification and retraining is necessary, but it is necessary where adequate education is not to be found. To tell someone who has graduated from a vocational school, high school, maybe even college, he chose a program that is inadequate and deficient, and suddenly you say, "Take any job, otherwise you'll lose your right to compensation, very harshly for someone who gets caught up in that situation." Something else about that. At the very least, Mr Minister, we should ensure that if, by law, someone is willing to accept a job offered to him, in this case he would have to get something more than social assistance, because in this sense, stimulation is necessary in order to involve himself in the work. Now this solution is not necessary, especially if he goes to do any work, but because of this he will have to travel, he will have to organise food differently, which will be more expensive than at home. These solutions are simply not covered. I think that it would suggest thinking about these things and finding a slightly less simplified solution, as proposed in the current solutions, because otherwise it will be based primarily on the need to sanction people who do not want to work and to see that the obligations the state has towards those who do not have a proper job will be as low as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Honourable Minister with co-workers, all present at the hall! I must say that, in view of today's debate and also of the debates, I am increasingly concerned and also surprised to hear, to read laws, resolutions, to supplement the laws that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is investing in the parliamentary procedure with the distinguished Minister. Experiences after almost two years of office show that I am a social democrat, and I can be personally concerned, both from the point of view of the social state and from the point of view of the human being, above all, about human rights. I am concerned that the Ministry or the Minister in these two aspects in his proposals of laws somehow forgets them and puts them in another plan before certain interests. And if I touch today's Social Security Act. Personally, it is clear to me that if we want to have a solid, healthy, social state, as well as social protection, we need to create certain conditions, we need to support the economy, because we know that the economy itself creates new jobs and good, a healthy economy creates added value and, consequently, the full budget is full. Then we can start thinking about even more money for social services. The proposer in his law discusses the objectives that the main objective of the proposed changes is to improve the current situation and rationalise budgetary expenditure in the provision of social assistance through the introduction of more fair and effective criteria in areas not currently well regulated, both in the case of cash social assistance and in the case of a family assistant. And here I have a thought, especially when we are talking about rationalising budgetary expenditure, because it is not up to me to see that the state is saving money for social services and is spending budgetary resources on the police, on the military and so on. I don't think we're going in the right direction here. If we look at the law below and according to the articles, I personally, in the form that it is before me today, cannot accept and is extremely bad for my concepts, especially when we are talking about articles on the granting of financial social assistance. Let me say that, on the basis of individuals who believe that they are exploiting not only this law or other laws in order to take advantage of the country in some way, we must not put the majority of citizens and citizens or those who are in need of assistance in an unfavourable position. But here I agree with the Minister, there is a need for more control, but I know that we have all the mechanisms to do so, but I know that we will not achieve these objectives by depriving ourselves of the rights of these objectives. We need to know that people in Slovenia, without being guilty, without work, values that give dignity, confidence and feeling that you are no one's burden, and from this point of view, we must come out. Unfortunately, people are not to blame for not having a job today, and most of these are therefore in need of social assistance. So we really need to take care of these people and look at them from a different point of view, like some predecessors before me who are talking about being part-timers, looking for a job, praying for God not to find them and so on. I don't think that's true. Many people are trying, most people are trying to find a job, and unfortunately because of the economic situation in Slovenia they will not find it because, unfortunately, capital is in front of people in Slovenia, at least at the moment. And if I touch any more articles with a family assistant or with social assistance, I would simply say that it is not acceptable for the recipient of financial social assistance to be forced into any kind of work irrespective of education and competence. It is said that there should be clear conditions under which a suitable job can be rejected, and the problem is who decides on the grounds of rejection. Automatism in the loss of rights in this case is not really permissible for my notions. And if I were to stop by the family assistant, that's all I would say, although the congregation does impose more tasks on the congregations every day, it doesn't find a source of funding, and I don't think that's good. Your Honor! Such a law that is before us today is unacceptable to me, and I will not support it, and I hope that in the second reading we will change it so that it is acceptable for most people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Germich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. When we read the objectives, principles and main solutions of the bill, we can read among the objectives of the law that it is necessary to rationalise budgetary resources in the provision of monetary social assistance, in order to encourage unemployed recipients of money and social assistance to work more effectively. And if I mention the third one, it's the rationalisation of financial expenditure, the right to choose a family assistant. If we were to talk about the principle level, it would be possible to attach to the indication of the objectives set out here. However, when we are talking about the implementation level and, of course, the basis on which this rationalisation is to take place, a number of issues are raised here. The first question that comes to me is: What does the government have to do with rationalising public spending in its entirety? I would not repeat all the cases that have already been mentioned here in the framework of the Group of Members, and I would point out how rational it is in other areas. I would like to draw attention here to only one segment, just the question of the rationality of spending resources when buying operating tables. We see what's going on here, the warnings of this government have been flying months ago and rationality here or the will for rationality has not actually been expressed, because the ministry and this government have not followed the warnings that we have been giving, and not just us, have also been cited from this house by those who knew much about it. And when we discussed the national social protection programme, we also pointed out from this parliamentary group what kind of relationship this government actually has with the constitution of the stated state that Slovenia is a social state. Is it true that the key savings that this law brings will be implemented in the area of social security? So we know when we're talking about the rational use of monetary social assistance, that we're actually talking about a very large number of people, that's 90,000 or even more, so we're talking about people that I think the law is at the root of the wrong assumption. We are talking about people who, in the opinion of the Government and the Minister, are those who are recipients of this aid, are concealing the actual need and the basis for eligibility of these aids. Of course, I can understand and also agree that in every arrangement we will find individuals who will try to exploit a particular system and will be fine, speculative or otherwise moving within the system. Of course, I can't agree that we're talking about the majority. We are talking about people who are at the bottom of their social status, that is, people who are the only source of financial social assistance for them to survive. And if today, in addition to all the other opportunities that we have through rationalisation, we focus on this group, which has very specific characteristics, lower education, less material goods and so on, we could also have here a number of comments on the solutions that this law brings. Here I would draw attention to another fact which, on the other hand, should underpin what we want. I think that the government and everyone here have the same interest: to increase responsibility for their own social security and to actively engage in the search for employment opportunities. Here, Mr Minister, I ask you - you state that you will create between 7,000 and 10,000 jobs this year and next year. In doing so, we have already warned you at the time of the adoption of the budget that at important items we are actually reducing the resources that could help. One of the important items in the budget was the encouragement of employers to create new jobs, to employ more difficult workers, where we have actually reduced resources by a billion. This means that we will now try to make up for this billion by reducing financial social assistance. I agree that there is a need for monitoring in this area, but there should be mechanisms to prevent speculation, but there should also be real scale assessments. When we talk about unemployed being bound by the provision that they will actually have to accept any kind of work. Mr Minister, we know that we have three important areas of unemployment, youth, older and long-term unemployment, which usually also have a lower level of education. I also have questions about family policy. Recently, we also had a discussion on how to stimulate the resolution of family problems. However, I ask you whether the young people we tell to go to school to obtain a higher level of education for reasons of greater social security, while at the same time offering that when they seek employment, they will have to support each job independently of the direction and level of education. In principle, I have no problem in terms of being ashamed of any work, but there are questions in many other areas. What will be the attitude toward self-image? We have recently discussed in the school system that self-image is one of the very important elements, that the attitude towards the dignity of these people is extremely important. And if we are talking about young people having the opportunity to have good opportunities, for good jobs, to form families, of course, I wonder in what way, when we offer them very, very poorly paid jobs. And, of course, we are also re-emphasizing the fear that employers will not react to my only logically - they offer significantly less difficult jobs in the calls, because at the employment office they will be very well educated, for which employers will be able to exhaust knowledge of significantly lower paid jobs. What will be the stimulus here, what will be the effect of preventing the effect of black work, which I think we agree that certain measures should be taken, but I think that these measures are going in a different direction, just to encourage us to have more work in black, so that we can have more work on the other side through our guides, which will not reflect the actual situation. To these dilemmas, Mr Minister, you are not responding to your justification for the objectives of rationalisation, because in my opinion there are reckless measures and will, not only in the medium and long term, lead to bad effects, but I think that the messages we give through the content of this law will be wrong, misunderstood, perhaps very well thought out in your head, ideas which I think will prove to be bad solutions in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u47	Thank you. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to point out that the Minister wrongly claims that he has obtained the consent of both associations of Slovenian municipalities, that this also fulfils the condition of Article 140 of the Constitution. In fact, the Constitution makes it very clear that the legislator must obtain agreement in local communities and provide the necessary resources to carry out the individual task entrusted to them, so that I would also like to point out that of the seven opinions that have come to the title of the National Assembly, only one is positive, all remain negative. I think it would be right for the leadership of the National Assembly, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to take note of the opinions that will arrive at the National Assembly, because there is a place where the consent of local communities is being gathered when it comes to imposing additional tasks on these communities. Secondly, I would like to say that, of course, the different calculations on how much money should be spent to finance the social protection and social welfare that the municipalities have to devote are very fictitious because the Law on Community Financing does not provide for a system, as at the time of the expenditure provided, when the whole budget was allocated, all funds for the financing of the municipalities were allocated for the purpose and it was precisely known how much money must go for one, other, third or twelfth task within the municipality. At present, the availability of funds of adequate spending and other funds acquired by the municipalities depends on the budget of the municipality and the state, except in exceptional cases where it is primarily the financing of those tasks performed by one municipality for the other and these other municipalities do not finance these tasks. When the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is launched in financial matters, together with the Ministry of Community Finance, it would be right to ask the municipality about this. As regards the family helper, it is a fact that the Constitutional Court’s judgment is crystal clear. It is not right that the municipalities did not agree to this amendment in 2004. Secondly, it is wrong not to provide the necessary funds, including 0.35% as a criterion for additional funding, to grant a family assistant is a criterion which is contrary to the judgment or the decision of the Constitutional Court. I therefore believe that this proposal, even when we know what the Ministry's position was on the proposal of the Social Democrats that this criterion would be 0.25%, we were wrong here, too, when we proposed that any criteria be set. The criterion is zero and all funds allocated to the financing of the family assistant must be provided in the national budget. Because this is not a substitute task because personal assistance is the help of counseling, not the financing of a task.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u50	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. How do you do? How do you do? I would like to start by repeating, as the Minister has said several times before, that the proposed changes are in line with the social partners; and secondly, the part relating to the family assistant with both communities of the municipality. These are facts, and I don't understand how some of us here in their own claims are present here, and we're all a lot smaller, you're deceiving us. See, I personally believe that the proposed solutions, as regards monetary social assistance, will make these changes more orderly and fair in terms of the sharing of these social assistance, particularly in terms of where more effective and fairer criteria are laid. As for the family assistant, I'd like to say the following. One of the speakers mentioned that he was invented by the state. Right, 2004, I'd just complement it if it was invented by the former government. However, I believe that the idea or idea is not at all bad at the time or today, because by this way of offering or providing care to persons with mental disabilities or those with severe movemental disabilities, it was actually one of the happy solutions. It is absurd, however, how the government then envisioned covering the costs of these helpers. When I read today in the then law that, in fact, the allowance for foreign care and assistance was justified by all those entitled to family assistance at the time to the allowance for foreign care and assistance, and that this meant by the adoption of this law, that this right to further, when they have family assistance, is frozen or at rest, which is absurd. In the state budget, the funds were earmarked for this and the state has decided or the then government, let us transfer this to the municipalities so that the money will remain in the state budget. In fact, I am not surprised that this is one of the reasons, or indirect, of this law’s even more financially weak congregation. This was then the purpose of the then government and the Minister of Finance, Mr Marble. I am not surprised when we accepted all the happy news that we will be able to take over the euro in Slovenia by 1.1, that Minister Dusan Maramor said that although he is looking forward to himself, he sees a very big problem in the future with regard to our macroeconomic policy just because in 2005 we increased 10% of the funds to the municipalities or in 2006, 4.5 in 2007, this was his statement or also published in the media. Once again, I would like to reiterate that this law has certainly had an impact, or the basic purpose, of impaling small municipalities or financially weak municipalities further to the bottom so that they would not be able to provide funding for the basic purpose. What I'm saying is that this solution is pretty real, it's good, given that this funding for care and assistance is now being allocated to the congregations. In addition, those other resources that are supposed to belong to the one who is entitled to a family helper should be made available to the congregation budget so that at least part or most of this injustice will be corrected. I will certainly support the proposed amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u51	Thank you. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I am disturbed by today's tone of debate, which results in a very generalised thinking, that in the Slovenian space there are poor, powerless, unemployed and in some way failing, speculators who are playing the system, and now there will be a new arrangement that will clean up and put things in their place, as if people living in poverty are living so purposefully and as if those who remain on the road are staying to get help because it pays them to get social contributions because they are only bigger if they are counted than those who would get, if they were to get employment or receive blankets and work properly. I am disturbed by this way of discussion and also by the thought that this law is necessary in order to get rid of speculators. In doing so, I would like to stress once again that the solutions to the current legislation are being remedied and given opportunities, in particular through active employment policy, addressing the most pressing problems, that they may not be sufficiently professionally interconnected and financially justified and that they should be considered and developed to a better extent. Let me make a few more comments. It is correct that you have arranged to extend the subsidisation of the employment of recipients of social assistance for an indefinite period of time to the form of temporary employment subsidies. It's the right thing to do. At the same time, however, it is contradictory to see what we have seen in the current debates on budget adoption, because in the 2006 draft budget you have reduced the resources to encourage employers to create new jobs and to employ more difficult people, as it is known, by a billion, from 2.7 billion in the 2005 budget rebalancing to 1.7 billion, in the 2006 budget proposal and in the 2007 proposal these funds are falling significantly. I would like to point out that in some way you are opening up some new premises, but at the same time you are demarcating them through budget lines, which are alpha and an obstacle to the implementation of your policies. One more thing just for a little while. The issue of refusing works and punishing for refusing works is very, very dangerous. If the Master of Social Sciences refuses to do a job, say a commercialist, he will do good for the employer because he will harm with his knowledge, his ignorance. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I had no intention of involving myself, but I have to get involved because, after a good year and a half of this government's work, Mr Mikolić has been slightly resisting that we are still looking for the reasons for everything in the previous government. This correction of the family assistant, this social service we gave birth to in the previous government, and I am proud to have given birth to her. She's good. Please, if you'll shut the fuck up, gentlemen, let me finish. Please, Mr. Sok, will you speak or can I speak?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u55	Only Mr. Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u56	At that time, we also claimed that it was wrong to impose extra burden on the congregations from law to law. The Ministry of Finance of that time provided us with exactly the same justification as it did when it proposed the law that we rejected in this mandate, and it was a group of Members with the first signature then to Mr Jance, then it had to withdraw the signature, but the collection of signatories remained. The Minister of Finance, your current president, gave a completely identical explanation when he represented Minister Marble, when we gave birth to this social service. Therefore, it seems a little unfair to me that we are still unable to make some self-criticism, that we are finally acting in favour of this country and these citizens, even now, all of us, in my opinion. So I think it's a shame, but I know that this social service is good anyway. And this social service was prepared by the Ministry or sector, or covered by the State Secretary for Social Affairs, who is today a person in the Ministry without a development card. This same person was brought into this group at the time, and she was defending him, including how it was done with this funding. So I think it's human that we're a little bit self-critical about things, because they're good after all. We do not look back when we change things. Let's see where we are today. We are here to create better conditions for our people and a more just life for the everyday approach of man to this life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I have to take a call because it has been said by Members that the government is transferring obligations to the municipalities. With this law regarding a family assistant, I think we are all united in this hall, to fix something that was not well arranged. It had a good purpose, but for various reasons, I don't know who the secretary or minister was, whoever it was, but it's been postponed, and now we're correcting it because the Constitutional Court ruled so, and also because I gave an answer in May to fix it, and we fixed it. We spent about six months in harmony with the congregations. Unfortunately, social bargaining, bargaining with social partners with the municipalities takes time, and it took time, and we did so, and thank God there was agreement. I was just telling the truth, coordinated in the economic and social world and coordinated in both communities, but I did not check that every individual municipality, every world, every mayor agreed entirely with these things. If we went into these procedures, we would certainly never have brought this law to an end and could have been further criticized if we had not adopted this law. The use of financial social assistance at social work centres increased enormously from 2003 to 2005. Unemployment has been declining during this period, employment has increased and it is unusual to see an increase in the enormous reception of social assistance. If this were to be the case, as members of the Social Democrats said, in order to ensure this through controls, then it would have been impossible to do so within the framework of the previous government. Or it was possible, but it wasn't done, and I'm not getting into it. As Minister and Government alone, it was necessary to make some changes in the legislative field and also in the implementation, because you asked me already to be hanged that the minister should do so. Savings are not at the expense of social policy or social security benefits or reductions, at the expense of the abuse of the accumulation of social injustice benefits. We are not reducing social security. For some solutions, such as public works, we even increase the amount of income. If this happens also in the case of unemployment compensation in the context of coordination with the social partners, we may also raise this in order to ensure decent social security. And these are, of course, budget funds, but above all, they are taxpayers' funds and, therefore, taxpayers can always ask us where these funds are being used. You mentioned 10,000 jobs. In the framework of the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act, we have introduced three new measures that will benefit the unemployed: young people, the first job seekers, women and the elderly. You have obtained this in Parliament, which will increase employment opportunities and also affect the creation of between 7,000 and 10,000 new jobs by next year. At present, unemployment is at the lowest level after independence and is 87,839. So, let's offer the young. With regard to reducing self - image and dignity, if we offer someone another job, we reduce his self - image and dignity. Are only some with high professional profiles eligible for dignity, self-image? As Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs myself, I claim that any work you do, you can guarantee yourself dignity and self-image. I cannot, of course, react to such comments. In Slovenia, of course, we cannot do seasonal work with our workers, including those who are recipients of monetary social assistance, because they do not decide on this work and have the right to decide not to do so. And that's why they're neither slow-frozen nor nothing, they have the right to do it, because they obviously have other benefits that are better. However, as taxpayers, we must ask ourselves whether they are entitled to financial social assistance. As they do not accept this work, we must give licences for the import of foreign labour, which, within the framework of dignity and self-image, do this work. I think I answered the key questions. If necessary, I will also answer within the time available.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u59	Thank you. Since all the declared discussers who wanted to do so have received the floor and because the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else would like to discuss it on the basis of Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I will read: Pecan, Potrata, Rezman, Horvat, Mikolič, Grill, Shirca, Janc, Capuder and Minister. Did I let anyone go? And Mr. Brenčič. Everyone has 3 minutes and 40 seconds at their disposal. Mrs. Pechanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u60	Thank you very much. While I must say that it seems strange to me that someone who was on the list of applicants did not discuss it, he is now given an additional minute, given that he did not take advantage of his rights when the time was right. Once again, I would like to point out that we cannot discuss how things have been improved, which in their own way has been wrongly done by introducing funding for a family assistant at the expense of the municipalities. I have to say that the family assistant - and this, as I understand it, even the ministry just finds out - does not replace home care, help the family, but the number of people receiving help at home remains the same. People in need of a family helper are additional people, so the amount that we allocate to the municipalities for social security services is increased, not replaced or compensated. That's one thing. Secondly, it is also necessary to know when we are talking about the Constitutional Court's decision, as it is said, that it is very clear. It is very clear that the correction which should have been made already in January of this month, but not only probably in July or perhaps in June the amendment of the law, must be understood that the municipality does not cover the costs of family assistants because it is a new task, or that the state must cover all costs incurred by family assistants. I must tell you that even in the municipality of Izola, when there are relatively few of us, there is a gap between what is calculated in the data received by the Constitutional Court from the Ministry of Finance, 360 tolar per capita for the financing of a family assistant, and the resources we are actually using are only 5 million tolars between the funds provided by the Ministry of Finance. By lending 10 million tolars to the country all of 2006 and 2005 and not getting the money back until 2007, only for a year. So I have to say, the least I could think of was when we were making changes to the law, and we were told by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs how we want to save on the unfortunate, helping the people we need. Yes, well, we didn't save, but the country did, and here they branded the mayors as being predatory, who I don't want to know what kind of money to have, and I don't know what to spend it for, as if the municipal budget were not very clearly allocated for the purpose of being determined by the municipal council under the budget every year. I think it would be fair for the Minister to give in here and fund the family assistant entirely from the state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u61	Ma'am mag. Tremendous, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u62	Thank you. I would like to object to that Minister's claim that my non-acceptance of article 30 is ideologically motivated and that this understanding of the inadequacy of theological education for the performance of certain social protection works is discriminatory for the university's graduates. The argument that it is already with the fact that the Theological Faculty is part of the university, that it is also a ticket to perform certain works, does not stand because it is also a science technical faculty member of the university, and the whole species, a biotechnological college, does not mean that it gives adequate knowledge. Involvement in the university does not guarantee this, especially when we are now talking about a new concept of universities that are just going to multiply there by ten or I don't know how many more. However, the definition of this article also states that this programme of a graduate theologian or a three-year university study, when it is given the title of a graduate theologian, does not say anything about what knowledge is needed to carry out this work. That's all I'm interested in is whether the study program is designed to provide a diplomat with the necessary knowledge, comparable to that of a graduate sociologist. This is what is needed, because the knowledge of which is discussed, in the field of marriage and family therapy, is only obtained as a specialist of a two-year-old, two-year or two-year specialist study, not only by a diploma of this course. So it would be expected, however, to be a little more listening to comments, rather than merely imputing ideology to certain positions. And also as regards the acceptability of certain solutions to efficiency and justice, it would be good to consider how they go by hand in the hands of efficiency and justice. Justice is not necessarily a consequence of efficiency, because we are talking about social categories that have different criteria for efficiency and I am interested in the criteria for efficiency. This is an assessment of how well the target group and the target target have been hit. That is why this is one area and another is the area of justice and the society of social justice would probably have something to say at the expense of someone having to take on any kind of work just because he's poor, even if he's educated. This, I think, does not cover the principles of righteousness. So some things need to be changed before something is attributed to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u63	Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I'll just count some truths that will be hard to argue with. For the first time, I would like to say that it is true that the former authorities have adopted this law and that it is at least so true that this government has defended it against those Members whom we have wanted to change, and it has even been against us, Members and Members of Parliament, mayors and mayors who have signed the law, how to spend inadvertently and wastefully the money it spends on social protection. This is an irrefutable truth written in the documents. Second truth. The Minister said he decides to change now, following a warning from the Constitutional Court. We Members and Members have warned that the law is wrong, that it needs to be amended, and that the Constitutional Court's decision followed much later, only gave us the right. And the third truth. As it is passed on to the congregations, so it is written in the constitution; according to the congregation’s prior agreement. It's in the unit. The municipalities to which it is transferred. Not that some third, fifth, eighth, twelfth congregations will decide what is to be passed on to the individual congregation. That's what the constitution says. Read it. Third time. The State may transfer to the municipality if it provides funds and there will be a prior agreement. If the cost is nothing before and if the cost is nothing and he insists that now he is fixing the government, we are part of the injustices, but even the injustice must be rectified. That is why the government, the state of debt to municipalities back because it burdened the municipalities with wrong decisions and in the Constitutional Court’s decision, read, saved the state budget at the expense of the municipalities. The state was "scratching" in the municipalities. True, it is a good service, but it is good for those who receive it, but it is not good for the congregations, and because it is bad, it is necessary to fix it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u65	Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representative of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. In the short time I have been given, I just want to say that I see no reason not to open the door to the law for a further parliamentary procedure. One of the main reasons for supporting the law is my "respekt" to coordinate the Ministry on the content of the law, on the content of the novel law with key partners, this is with the social partners and also with both associations of Slovenian municipalities. Indeed, in New Slovenia, as you know, we support the principle of subsidiarity in everything, which means, as you know, we supported the creation of new municipalities, but not only in the sense of giving municipalities new tasks, but also providing them with adequate financial power. Last but not least, we have done this in the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005 and 2006 etc. As far as the family assistant is concerned, I have received many calls from the environment from which I come, many pressures, in fact, from the pomur citizens, the mayors, that this problem should be resolved as soon as possible. Thank God, the first step has been taken, I hope they'll be next. As far as the issues with the university's graduates are concerned. I'm just going to draw one analogy or one thought. I know a lot of Slovenian businessmen, a lot of respected managers who run respected companies, but not all of them are very university-graduate economists, they may not have seen from within any of the Slovenian economic colleges, they may be engineers, mathematicians, physicists, etc., and they may be successful. So much for thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u67	Mr. Mikolitch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Since I have a chance to speak again, I would like to tell you, Sir, that you did not listen to me in my previous debate. I even repeated twice that with the proposed solution in 2004 and even today I agreed that I said it was very good. Look, the other thing is very good about a family assistant, and the other thing is, what I want to stress is, you know, if some things are wrong at first, you're hard to fix. And from the very beginning, it was a mistake to finance this, which is what I wanted to tell you earlier. Once again, it was absurd that the financial resources to be provided to these people, from the point of view of care and assistance, remained at the Ministry of Labour and that these financial obligations were imposed on the municipalities. And look, colleague Brenčič, you yourself said that a letter had been made by the Minister of Finance. That's what I wanted to tell you earlier, because I also know what was written. The aim of the Minister of Finance was exactly what I explained in the debate earlier - let us transfer the obligations to the municipalities so that more money will remain in the state budget. What has already been planned in the budget for this purpose, care and assistance remains in the budget. And that's the right thing to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u69	Mr. Grill has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I agree that we certainly have people in Slovenia who need social assistance. However, I firmly believe that very many who receive social assistance are those who abuse this aid. To avoid thinking about it, I will only read two or three paragraphs of the letter I received by e-mail from New City, from an anonymous consignor who works in one of the social institutions. It reads: "I am a resident of Dolenjska, employed in a social institution and cannot pass through some facts that the last few years in New City have been the most placed three rankings of people: businessmen with six to eight classes of elementary school followed by Roma and "refugees" who came during the war, the last of the first to buy cars of a higher price class. At the same time, all three layers live on social support, without anyone being able to restrain themselves from interacting with different movements and properties. Example: In my institution, at least twelve families from Bosnia living in social housing receive social assistance. In the last 15 years, parents have not gone to work in these families on their own, and only one member is reported to have received additional benefits. And they build houses with this, and they also have four weeks' leave." This is definitely first-hand information, from people who have access to these records. Abuses are obvious, and I'm sure there aren't many, but there's certainly a lot of them. They are due to the systemic errors we have incorporated into a number of laws. And I am sure that these mistakes will have to be corrected not only in this law that we are considering today but also in many others. I am sure that part of this will also end this law, so we will also support it, at least personally, below. The following shortcomings in the occurrence of such abuses were also deficiencies in records or access to data. We've already adopted such a law, and even with that, I mean, we're going to solve things. At the end of the day, however, I would only be touched by questions about what is right or wrong for someone and by self - image. I know people who are university-educated, including sociologists who are very excited about hobbies in the afternoon, as well as for an additional tolar, in the fields, for example, I know a lawyer who also deals with agriculture in the afternoon and also sells this matter. I know engineers who, in the afternoon, make noises and lay tiles, even for extra money. No one thinks this work is dishonorable for his education. We have many such and different cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u71	Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u72	At least once again, I'll tell you where the debate is going. On the wallpaper are currently "refugees", Roma, members of other republics, Members, we have heard, soon there will be single women, in short, all abuse these ratings, which this country is spreading all around; and now Mr Drobnič will make order. But if we go back to the issue of eliminating money support as punishment for refusing any work offered; clearly, it might make sense if there were enough jobs in Slovenia, but, I repeat, the compatibility of this determination you bring is compatible with what the Constitution says. The Constitution states, however, that freedom of work is guaranteed, that everyone is free to choose employment and everyone is available under the same conditions and that forced labour is prohibited. And speculation about what and how it is necessary to punish those who refuse work are, of course, somewhat manipulative in this place. I would like to see that further consideration of this law identifies what this unjustified rejection of a given job is, because, while we may find ourselves in situations where someone who is a declared pacifist in his belief will refuse the work of someone who, for example, will have to manipulate the electric paralyser offered to him, will not accept it because of his conviction and will therefore be punished for tearing his help away. Or, say, a writer, it's called a diplomat compatriot or a literate, will be forced to do so, will be offered a job to lead a cashier or an accountant, which will not be useful to him or to the one who will offer him this accounting, because he will not control it. In short, why we educate people and invest large amounts of money in education, if we offer them jobs that require a lower level of education. How did they do that, say, to the Finns? Finns do not solve these problems in this way as we do, but they say that if a person terminates the employment relationship voluntarily and for no real reason, or if the employment has been suspended because of his own guilt, support for the case of unemployment is not paid for 90 days, and this is not the equivalent of what we are applying. However, if a person refuses employment for no real reason, he is not entitled to a 60-day allowance, but where the problem is, it is probably known what the real reason is, and we do not know here. Therefore, these manipulations today, which are harmful to vulnerable people and people who have not lost their jobs or have none at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u73	Mr. Brenčich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u74	Thank you very much. When we passed a law on amendments and additions to the Social Protection Act in the previous term, introducing this social service of the family assistant, of course, there was a problem following the determination of who is taking over the funding under consideration. The explanation of the then Ministry of Finance was exactly the same as the explanation of the current Ministry of Finance under Dr. Bayuk's tactics when we rejected the law of Members, the mayors who wanted to transfer this funding from the municipal budget to the state budget. And that is why there is no absurdity, Mr Mikolič, as you have said, as Minister Marble has transferred financing of this to the municipalities. At the same time, it was quite the same that in the system of calculation of the appropriate spending or coverage of the expenditure on family support services for funding was the same as the contents of the current government's opinion on the law in question that we rejected. The former government has not committed any absurdity in the present case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u75	A representative of the government also has the floor. Excuse me, Mrs. Cotmanov. Mr. Janc has another word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Chairman. I am no longer interested in so much of the history that has been, because it is not current, I cannot influence it as a Member, and I am more interested in the future, and in this I see some future in this area of law supplementation, in particular from one argument that I may have forgotten in my debate earlier. It is certain that Posavje is also one of the largest regions that we process the most fruit in Slovenia. And believe me, out of the 3,000 unemployed people who are then in the Posavia region, the employer who wants to get people from this pool through the employment facility gets a handful from this address to pick apples, and even a small part of them remain until the end of picking these apples. There's something wrong here. If I as a state help someone with this and offer them a job and they don't accept it and there's no sanctions, something's wrong, it's the first time. Another time. We once imported Croats, Bosnians, unfortunately we can't do this anymore today, we import Poles, Slovaks and so on to pick up Slovenian apples, and then we can put them on the market. I think that there is something wrong here, and for all this well-being, the cost of the country will definitely need to be reduced in all areas, but at the same time I think the government must do what is as many jobs as possible, such and different, so that as many young people as possible and even fewer young people get a job, it is appropriate to work. At the same time, with this abuse that has occurred and will still be, believe me, the Slovenians here are experts and we master this issue of how to find holes in the marriage and how to get these rights that do not belong to you. I believe that this matter will be one step further, but we will limit those who somehow abuse this instrument of social assistance and the other supplements offered by the State through such and different ones, and provide assistance to those who are truly in need of assistance to the sick, the elderly and so on. And I believe that this legislation, I will be happy to support it, that in the second reading there will certainly be amendments, such and different, that we will further improve the matter and eventually make such a law, that it will come out of these rights and obligations that we citizens have, including respect for the obligations to this country that we each have as a citizen of this Republic. I am sure that this law will also be supported in the first reading, and I believe it will be later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u77	Mr. Janc, I'm sorry, your name has been written down, the President has written it down as Mrs. Shirca, so I have overlooked it. Mrs. Cotman, the Secretary of State has your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! I thank you for all your proposals in the public debate, and I believe that we will examine all the comments made at first reading until the hearing on the home committee. We have been working all the time to improve the social protection law and, above all, to improve the situation of the socially disadvantaged, to whom the law is intended. We will therefore examine all your comments concerning monetary and social assistance, family assistants and the inclusion of recipients of monetary and social assistance in employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u79	I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the meeting's timing, decide today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 33rd item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.05. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. Agenda item - First draft of the law on call and professional education. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members with the first signed Merrani Potrče requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Minister Dr. Beast, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u80	Mr. Vice President. Dear Members. Allow me to present in this introduction a proposal for a law on vocational and professional education. It's a new marriage. As you know, in 1996 exactly 10 years ago, we passed the Act on Vocational and Professional Education, which at the time introduced some innovations from the dual system, 2 plus 3 systems, even higher vocational education, vocational courses, which required a moment of time at the time, but in particular the needs of the economy, but in the course of the 10 years there were so many demands for amendments and additions to this law that simply by amendment, the amendment did not go away and we decided on a new law. And there are more reasons for that, like some internal ones. Years ago, we introduced or had a large project of farms of the MOK, which was a thorough external evaluation study and showed some weaknesses and at the same time guidance, and recommended that the system be changed in the direction of greater deregulation and autonomy, flexibility and social partnership. In 2001, the Vocational and Professional Education Council adopted new starting points, which bring a number of innovations in vocational and professional education, such as an open curriculum, modular composition, programme structure, a short line of innovation. We have already received several programmes in a few years, and by next year we also want to use the European Social Fund to thoroughly renovate all professional and professional programmes at new starting points. In short, the substantive reform is actually going on, what we need to do now is introduce this systemic structural deformity and then we can say that the area of vocational and professional education is quite well regulated. There were also some external impulses that led us to change the law or to adopt a new law. In 2002, a significant Copenhagen declaration was adopted at the end of the year, stressing the need for greater cooperation between European countries in the field of vocational and professional education. In 2004 the Maastricht Communication was adopted, which also highlighted the objectives, principles and also some of the mechanisms in the field of vocational and professional education, which means that the process of creating a common European space has actually taken place at this level of education and training, not only at the tertiary level. At the same time, Europes has also been adopted as a tool for recognition, the enforcement of non-formal forms of education, which also coincides with the concept of lifelong education, which is somehow the most prominent element of the reform of education on European soil at this time. What does the present law bring? Above all, we want our schools to be more responsive to the needs of the economy. We also want more cooperation from the social partners or greater involvement of the social partners in the field of vocational and vocational education, not just the two chambers that need to participate in the planning, design and implementation of the programme. In short, this response or cooperation with the social partners must be as close as possible if the school system or our offer is to satisfy the economy. The law also allows modular programming, credit evaluation of programmes, which is an important novelty. This will also enable greater mobility, both vertical and horizontal. This law makes it possible to recognise certain competences acquired through an informal way of learning. We also allow for the opposite evaluation of quality, which is very important, both internal and external evaluation. We would also like to link both the general and the professional and practical competences of all participants in this education more closely. At the same time, with substantive and structural reform, the MOFAS project is also being implemented, where we increase both programming, organisational, financial and administrative autonomy, we are implementing the principle of the subsidiarity of institutions or vocational and secondary vocational schools. As I said earlier, reform is also taking place through a substantial financial injection, with the help of the European Social Fund, where – as already mentioned – this very moment and next year we want to renovate all the programmes, and a new generation of educational programmes is also emerging. At the same time, we want to increase the training of teachers by this reform or by these legal standards; without well-trained professionals and even the management of schools, of course, reform cannot be successful. Above all, we want closer cooperation with employers, with companies where our students or participants in education will spend a good part of their training and education time with them. This is also one of the recommendations of all these European agreements, declarations, communications that more attention should be paid in particular to practical training in practice. The law separates two types of practical training. But of course, we have a lot of work to do in the coming year, especially in upgrading this system. We are facing a series of sub-legislative acts, i.e. enforcement rules, which will only provide a purely legal basis for the reform of vocational and secondary vocational education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Here comes the presentation of the parliamentary groups. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! At the LDS Club, we welcome the government's decision that the law governing vocational and professional education has been sent to Parliament by regular procedure. It has also provided for a general discussion on the content submitted by law. Let me point out here that this is how the National Assembly should adopt all the more important laws that make substantial and major changes to the subsystems it regulates. All too often, laws are passed in short or urgent procedures, and there is no special need for this. It is even worse when the majority voting machine adopts bad and unimaginable laws that do not have the support of the professional or the general public, but in which there are confusions and confusions in the society and its subsystems. Today, we are talking about the proposal for a law on vocational and professional education that, despite the changes made by the 1996 law, some new ones are clearly needed today. In this interim period, some new baselines have been adopted for the preparation of educational programmes where important long-term and, in many cases, major innovations have been planned. Let me list only some: modular building of educational programmes, integration of general, professional and practical knowledge, implementation of a competent principle instead of the subject-matter planning of educational programmes and an open curriculum. On the basis of the above, a memorandum on the further development of vocational and professional education was also established, which proposed deregulation, flexibility and enhanced social partnership as strategic orientations. In the LDS, we estimate that innovations could be introduced through amendments to the current law, since this is not a conceptually completely new solution, but due to the scale of the changes, it is better or more precisely to adopt a new law that will support the necessary changes. In the LDS, we welcome innovations such as modeling, integration of education and work, credit system, recognition of informally acquired knowledge, quality and social partnership. However, in the face of the positive changes introduced by law, we cannot pass over the fact that the law is prepared superficially. We seem to have a draft on which more people were working without coordination and the final edition was missing. If our students are required to be precise and complete in their products, they should first do so more in such important products and projects as laws. An inconsistent and linguistically poor description of Finnish, Dutch and German education is also written, making it impossible for us to clearly compare education systems in those countries. Before the proposed solutions, there is a particular problem in the opinion of some experts in this area - the abolition of apprentice status. In the future, this will be practically the same as before, for a learning contract is being maintained, only it will have no special status, which is certainly bad for it, as it loses its retirement age and the monthly reward. This makes the system more efficient, and this change has not taken place on the initiative of employers who had to invest too much, regardless of the fact that the State has helped significantly in the insurance. It will also be interesting to know whether the applicant is aware that, while school autonomy and the open curriculum allow for greater influence of local interests, they can reverse the scope of education and general competences, for example, it is questionable to reduce pedagogical education from 70 to 50 hours for masters. In the LDS, we believe that it would be better to update the programmes, allow different forms, set credit points rather than reduce the scale or the existing standard. It is not clear whether the applicant is aware of this because the law does not provide for a pre-numerary increase in staff. It does not raise questions about the appropriateness of the education of existing staff and does not raise questions as to whether the fulfilment of the requirements of the law is a reflection of the emergency education system, or whether there is an open and answerable question whether the state here provides for certain aid. However, the role of trade unions seems to be under-emphasized. Their exclusion from an equal and equal partnership breaks down and does not strengthen the social partnership, which is contrary to the above-mentioned objectives. Despite these shortcomings in the LDS, we wish and hope that these shortcomings can be addressed in the legislative process which the law will receive. That is why we will support the proposal of the LDS in the House of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u83	Thank you. The word is "ma'am mag." Expenditure on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, honourable Member and Members of Parliament! The Group of Social Democrats has tabled a request for general treatment, not because it would have had any concerns about the proposal for a law on vocational and professional education regarding the need for regulation of this area. It is because we believe that this area is so important that it should also be considered at the level of first reading and that it should be determined where those points where the proposed legal text could be improved. In order to achieve the strategic objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, which we are so keen to talk about, specific common European objectives have been adopted in the field of education and training, and I should mention only two of these specific common European objectives. First, Member States of the European Union need to ensure that, on average, at least 80% of the population in the European Union aged 25 to 64 reach at least secondary education by 2010. And the others. The participation of this population group in lifelong education at European Union level must be at least 15% and in individual Member States not less than 10%. In the context of these two concrete objectives, the position of the Social Democrats' Group on the proposal for a law on vocational and vocational education is also taken, as this education we are talking about does not reach the level of recognised secondary education at all levels and in all forms. Vocational and vocational education is certainly useful in ensuring the achievement of that objective, which is increasingly stressed by school policy makers and, in particular, reformists, this is an increased direct preparation for work and is expected to achieve greater employability. At the same time, the emphasis on greater mobility requires rapid adaptation to labour market requirements. It should be checked whether the flexibility in the Slovenian labour market is so low compared to flexibility or mobility in other countries of the European Union or not, some indicators show that we are highly classified. But the fact is that in the world of rapid change, the general education of the one that allows rapid adaptation to change and the share of general education as a component of professional and vocational education is also useful if every thing has to be weighed with pragmatic criteria, because it gives spiritual breadth and does not entangle us in a partial way of thinking. The transfer of knowledge to competences or to the proposal of this law raises questions about the emphasis on knowledge society, as knowledge is increasingly replaced by the concept of competence. That is why it is even more important to have a modular concept of education, credit system of education, education, non-formal education and comprehensive regularity, this is formal education. Here we would expect more appropriate enforcement in that part of the law represented by the articles. That is why these forms of education are missing, for example, a module of general education to complement partial education and compare it with formal vocational or professional training. I would like to point out this in particular because in Article 2 of the Law, where the objectives are defined: vocational and professional education has the task of - and then referred to at an internationally comparable level - conveying the knowledge, skills and skills needed to carry out the profession and further education. In fact, only this objective among all these objectives is one that is specifically linked to professional skills or competences, because everyone else is more involved in general education, because it is also promoting lifelong learning, education for sustainable development, developing independent critical judgement and responsible conduct, developing understanding and communication skills in Slovenian language, etc. Whoever examines these paragraphs in Article 2 will see the relationship between what should then also be the relationship between these sectoral, distinctly professional and professional abilities and what belongs to the general education area. Of course, this bill also raises the question of motivation for informal education if the educational outcome is not placed in the national qualification framework. Now allow me only to draw attention to some specific comments on this law. I would like to point out that, at the same time as we are considering the law on vocational and professional education, we are also changing the entire system of assembly organisation. However, since this law places a great deal of emphasis on partnership, i.e. partnership between the social partners - and part of this partnership is also clearly represented by the chambers - we would expect more concrete, better, more appropriate solutions in Article 19 where there is a talk on the granting of public education and vocational education. The integration of education and work, of course, also raises the issue of the placement of a contract, which has been pointed out in part before, but the issue of financing for this part is, of course, open and inconsistent for the whole of the law. For example, the provisions in Article 32, which refer to an inter-enterprise education centre, are inoperable. We therefore believe that the need for a law that regulates the field of vocational and vocational education is also great with more modern, other, less formal forms of education. That some of the solutions proposed in this law are, however, below expectations of how long this law has been in preparation. The question is: Have all those experts who can be attributed much knowledge of the field of vocational and vocational education really been involved in the preparation of this proposal? We are therefore judging in the Social Democrats' Group that this will be the case today and that it will also consider on the working body the opportunity to improve the text that we do not oppose in the principle of the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Ms Marjetka Uhan, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u86	Dear Minister with co-workers, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! Today we have a proposal for a law on vocational and professional education under consideration. In vocational and secondary vocational education, lower vocational, secondary and secondary vocational education may be obtained in accordance with the curricula implemented by schools and employers in cooperation with the social partners. Vocational and professional education is primarily tasked with providing, at an internationally comparable level, the knowledge, skills and skills needed to carry out the profession, as well as providing basic and opportunities for further education. What do many professions that are unemployable help us? Even worse, we feel that many entrepreneurs say that they cannot help themselves today because they simply cannot work because they do not have the necessary practical experience and knowledge. We are aware that work experience comes with years, but the basics must be given to them by the educational system. Therefore, the basic emphasis of the new law on education, training of staff, which will be employable at the end of education. The essence of the law is the integration of education and practical work, which means that the school and the employer will jointly educate for the needs of the market. The social partners will participate in education planning, programming and practical training, as well as evaluation of achievements. Modules are introduced as a programming unit of objectives and content containing expertise, theoretical and practical knowledge and key capabilities. Modules will be mandatory and optional to acquire a particular profession. However, the individual module will also allow for a certain national professional qualification. National professional qualifications may be obtained on the basis of complementarity, deepening, testing of knowledge and ability, even if the applicant does not have formal education. The emphasis on the quality of education, although this quality is unfortunately not evaluated in the law. Emphasis is placed on lifelong learning, the recognition of lifelong learning and the recognition of informally acquired knowledge and the experience that needs to be properly evaluated. Education programmes will be evaluated by credit points as measurement units. The credit point will evaluate the overall work, the different forms of learning and work, the practices to date for the objectives of the education programme. For a particular profession, the student must collect a certain number of credit points as well as for the transition to the next year. Credit points are transferable from one school to another, taking into account credit points already acquired in previous education. At the same time, a student can be educated by means of multi-educational programmes; he can choose between subjects, modules according to the educational programme. In doing so, the school advises him to meet the conditions for obtaining an education or national qualification. The school will enable the student to perform his duties also through modules carried out by other schools by agreeing on a way to meet the duties of the student at the school. Students will be insured in practical training with the employer as well as on excursions, for which the Ministry must provide additional financial resources. With legislative changes, we want to follow technological developments, the needs of the economy, the needs of workers, motivate students in particular in areas for which they already have some experience, knowledge or talent. We will support the law in New Slovenia because it seems to us that it is time to get the professions that our economy needs to get from schools of staff that will be employed and will have practical knowledge in addition to theoretical knowledge. We hope that among students there will also be more interest in abandonment or non-modern yet necessary professions. In Nova Slovenija we hope that more motivation will be given to young people, including because of the greater choice of modules, as well as the evaluation of the whole work, knowledge, experience and talent, and that this will encourage greater motivation for young people in different fields. We hope that this can have an impact on a better attitude towards work, learning, goodness, teachers and employers, or on the learning process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc has the floor, on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Changes in vocational and professional education are necessary, in particular for reasons such as the number of students from year to year who have entered certain professions that have been sought or are no longer educated due to lack of interest, the economy and crafts are not given sufficient professional skills with technical professions and will soon be forced to seek appropriate labour outside Slovenia. Employment and the integration of girls into professional programmes is difficult. There have been massive transitions of students who have completed vocational education into programmes 3+2 which have been under-professional. There are too few new combined programmes in line with technological developments. The economy and craft are under-involved in the creation and co-implementation of educational programmes for specific professions. Education has little to do with the needs of the local environment. Education in the event of unemployment is long-term. In secondary vocational education, programmes are broken down by subject, students are largely not prepared for entrepreneurship and active citizenship, programmes are not motivated, there is insufficient autonomy of schools in the design of programmes. It is imperative to make vocational education more attractive, and professional work in our society must be presented as socially beneficial and indispensable. However, it seems very important to us to allow a faster way to further professional education for adults or to obtain this education if, as students, the school system has previously been abandoned. Above all, it is important to make it meaningful and appropriate to regulate the acquisition of professional qualifications also on the basis of acquired knowledge and experience without the unnecessary additional education of already trained personnel. In the Slovenian People's Party, we advocate that Slovenia will become a knowledge-based society and take full advantage of the intellectual potential of Slovenians living in and out of the country, which the Slovenian people are making to a large extent. In doing so, the quality of education must be made possible and promoted, and skills must be encouraged, including in the field of professional, technical and professional knowledge. Without this, it will be difficult to achieve the goal set in Slovenia, which is urgently needed to increase the competitiveness of the economy. It is therefore essential to connect teachers with the industry, where innovation and introduction are taking place and the applications of updated technological processes. If the trend does not turn this way, we can expect a multitude of unemployed young people with completed education directions that the labour market does not need and Slovenia should invite from other European or non-European countries. The law before us, in our view, follows European guidelines and is also modern-day. We are convinced that it is essential to link general, professional and practical knowledge more appropriately and to increase the active involvement of pupils and adults in learning. The starting point of the law enforces the substantive positive experience of the dual system for all vocational and vocational education curricula. Connecting education and work with education in the work process and strengthening the social partnership as a fundamental principle of vocational and vocational education - this can only be achieved in an open curriculum, modularisation of programmes, integration of general, professional and practical education and the equalization of the educational standard for school and dual forms of vocational education. The concept of lifelong learning implies the recognition of formal and informally acquired knowledge of further education. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that certain provisions of the law need to be improved, corrected and made more clear that the proposal of the law will, on the basis of agreed criteria, allow schools and organisations all procedures that facilitate lifelong learning for citizens and increase their competitiveness in the labour market. The second paragraph of Article 1 does not correctly mention the application of the National Professional Qualifications Act. This law only defines the programmes by which national professional qualifications can be obtained and does not regulate them, as set out in that paragraph. The completion and training programme is already regulated, a professional standard and a catalogue of professional skills standards are introduced. The Professional Standard is the basis for the preparation of educational programmes, in practice programmes are implemented and need not be re-regulated. Example: If a factory wants to, it can already order the implementation of programmes, which is then taken into account in proving professional qualifications. However, if these programmes are to be obtained by a national professional charter, they are drawn up on the basis of professional standards and catalogues, which is also being implemented and there are no obstacles. A problematic and perhaps even necessary Article 10, where it is unclear whether the pre-education programme is compulsory or necessary only in exceptional cases. There are also inconsistencies in the explanation and it is necessary to write the article more clearly and to set out more clearly when they are and whether additional education is needed before obtaining a certificate under national professional qualifications. The programmes are intended to provide reference points for the evaluation of informal knowledge, possibly leading to a need for a basis for setting credit points; credit points are based on the time needed to obtain a standard or a learning achievement. We believe that the point of reference is a learning achievement and not a programme in itself, so we propose that standards of knowledge, professional standards, be taken into account as such a reference point and that credit points be determined on the basis of the estimated time needed to manage them and not involve educational programmes. Article 17 also does not make it clear whether the establishment of a public institution which supervises or determines the quality of vocational and professional education for an established public institution or for any establishment. More specifically and clearly, it is necessary to define that this public institution must work in the field of the whole country in order to ensure that all citizens are given control and the same quality, i.e. in the whole country. The current doctrine allows for quality assurance to any established public institution, regardless of the scope of the operation, although the subtitle of the article predicts that the aim is to ensure uniform quality assurance. The basic objective of the proposal for a law on vocational and professional education should be to allow for further quality development of this segment of education, to ensure the openness of the system for new programming and organisational solutions, and, of course, to make it possible to adapt more quickly to the needs of the economy in line with common European guidelines. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we consider that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration and we propose that, in the next stage of the hearing, our comments regarding the above-mentioned articles be taken into account as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Grims on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary, I'd like to say a very nice hello to all of you. It is time for some things to be reconsidered at the value level in Slovenia. A big shift in the past years has been that from that socialist notion of physical work as values, we have come to the point that value is knowledge. Now it is the next step in facing the new challenges of the world, when it comes to facing issues, problems and everything that globalisation brings, and when it comes to accepting education as such. There will be a need to shake off the former feeling that we still face in many debates - unfortunately, I also have to say in some reactions to recent student demonstrations, especially by trade unions, it has been noted that in fact education is what enables access to a reliable, lasting, less demanding and as much-paid job as possible and the shortest possible period of time after which it also enters retirement. Education is really an investment in itself. An investment that is extremely important because we enter the labour market and later compete with everyone else on this market. This investment is important because it is a question of how quality then we can put our work into practice and whether our work will fully meet all expectations of ourselves, as well as of society as a whole. In all these respects, therefore, the law before us, the law on vocational and professional education, is extremely important. It is also important from one point of view, which I stress in particular. In today’s world, no one can imagine that some education is also the one with which he completed his basic education, either way, given to him at all times, and that any further education is unnecessary, quite the opposite. In the world we live in, there is a constant education and its quality is not only a value, but a requirement that is placed in front of all those in the country that we are creating the legislative area, in front of all those we are fulfilling, but also of course all other citizens and citizens. The law in its origins, as presented, means bringing European standards closer to what the Slovenian economy expects us to do. It is about creating faster, better and more flexible opportunities for anyone entering the labour market, so that with his expertise, with all the competences he acquires in the education processes, he will then, to the fullest extent possible, fulfill his personal mission, as well as everything that society rightly expects from him in his entire life. And to face the fact that what each individual creates is for the benefit of all, and the basis for this creation is knowledge as a whole. Therefore, in the SDS Group of Members, this law is unitedly supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u91	There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister and his associates! The Law on Vocational and Vocational Education is certainly one of the important laws, as we are talking about how it is possible to acquire a profession that we meet in our daily lives or in some particular environment, of course, this is linked to some tradition of areas and I must admit that vocational schools and vocational schools are particularly important for areas that are not university centres. We talk a lot about where we will have universities, university centres and the like in Slovenia, maybe a little less or a little less about where we will maintain secondary vocational centres and where we will develop these programs. I would also like to draw attention to a network of schools that provide education, especially in environments where there is a traditional labour intensive sector where we are faced with a lower income level of the population, and how important it is for individuals to reach a certain level of education and thus enable them to obtain employment. I must point out that the connection with the social partners, as has been so far, has not been the most appropriate, as it has often caused the centralisation of individual learning programmes and moved away from the centres where unemployment is at some point the largest, for a reason: there are not enough jobs available there, there are no companies for which the interest in entry would be so much greater, and here I would like to draw attention mainly to this social partnership in the sense of changing such a way of thinking. I am not quite sure whether the change in the Chamber of Economics will bring about such a shift, because while organisation is changing, there are not sufficiently clear points of reference that the areas where labour-intensive industries dominate will be able to organise and approach the establishment of economic chambers, allowing them to participate as a social partner in the development of vocational and professional education programmes under this law. I would also like to appeal that this is somehow understood and taken into account in, again, the creation of a network of secondary schools. Of course, border areas are also very important in this vocational education, and given that under this law the Minister will have the opportunity to present a number of places of entry, including foreign citizens, it seems to me that even more attention should be given to border areas and to cooperate with neighbouring countries in order to achieve the optimal possibility of education in border areas also on the basis of a large number of places of entry for foreign citizens. With these mechanisms, I think that the impact of secondary schools, vocational secondary schools in some environment, would actually rise to the right level, and I hope that this law will help. Of course, there is also a great deal to do to improve the situation of the schools themselves and the conditions in which they work, so that, let's say, in Kočevska, if I can point out, a gym for secondary and vocational education as soon as possible, and especially the part that is specifically devoted to vocational education, as workshops that are needed to achieve the highest possible level of practical knowledge. I hope that all these conditions will also be met under this law and that this education will bear the desired success in the development of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u93	Mr Kontic has the floor. You're giving up. Mr. Anton Kokalj. So do I. Mr. Slavko Gaber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u94	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased that, after being usually very strongly "break" opinions around fast, shorter procedures for amending laws, even in very [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] Here, in this case, I'll say hello myself. [[...]] Firstly, this is a very rare case in this mandate, a regular procedure for the adoption of one of the system laws, which, if very discovered, builds up without very large interferences in the logic of legislation the existing regulation. In this case, we have a literal system upgrade at work, and I am very happy that we can accept it. The modularity, the credit system, as much as possible the flexible composition of a future career that will need to be upgraded again in life, is a logic that is crucial to this law. I think it is right that, in the debate here today, we also point to those points that may still need to be made up to see that the law has been absorbed in some very specific writings. All those who do not work for the first time in marriage know that this drinking is welcome and, again, the law in this way only gains. I expect this to happen until the second reading. Colleagues and colleagues have already talked about this, and I would like to point out two points in this law. The social partnership is appropriately exposed. Although the law bears a mark at these points, especially in Article 19; the fact that the social partnership in Slovenia is being recognizable. I think that this area would deserve strong social partners, very responsible, and I must admit, I would like to see more of the power of the chambers myself. This means those on the scene in Slovenia should be strong enough to be able to answer for what they are proposing to the minister, because it is possible to propose if you do not have to answer for what you have managed to bring into the system; then the politicians are by definition guilty of everything they have accepted. So maybe having more clearly and more strongly represented those most representative entities that will arise would seem more important to me than having other associations here in a very equivalent position, so I'm reading the law now, as well as those who will have the opportunity to suggest, but will do a little work. The second element in the partnership to be considered is the union partnership. As a matter of fact, trade unions in Slovenia are still being formed as a serious partner in this area. If we do not add commitments and opportunities to them, they will remain in this first stage for a long time. I know it's easier to propose than to make a system that would bring it, but there's no harm in thinking about it. Allow me to conclude my thinking by discussing the relationship between vocational and general education in this country. I think that this is one of the important discussions that we are leading wrong many times - it seems that these two are by definition in a dispute, as if the two are mutually exclusive and there is no way to reach the interlocking of both. Indeed, the law in Article 2 speaks extensively of elements that are typical elements of general education. The law itself will not solve this dilemma. And it is more than if this debate were intended for the very text of the law, measure by type, in a way that considers these issues. The idea that is not new and has been launched years ago, and this is the subject of a very long discussion in Europe, so we should be able to think about the general education that needs space, Slovenia and Europe as a whole. It is not a question of how to arrange general education in high school and how to organize it specifically in vocational education. The horizontal must be taken together and the commissions involved should try to think this whole once; if it is not capable, then the commission must be changed, the composition must be different. The vertical of general education in the Republic of Slovenia should be considered along the horizon. We need something like this. Perhaps it is better to take a year more time to think of it than to have a solution to which everyone will stumble when he has five minutes of time. So it is not a question of whether we will have more vocational education or more professional education. It is a question of how far it will be to the problems that need to be solved in this world, to the things that need to be moderated in this world, to know how to live. This approach seems to me to be taking place increasingly in those countries in Europe that have unfortunately experienced the great problems they face with their professional work, where they thought everything could be instrumentally regulated in the field of social issues; France is such a typical example. Nothing benefits a very good, narrow education, which you really don't use anywhere, except maybe for street dismantling and road crash. This consideration should be kept in front of each other when curiculative changes are taking place. And if those parts of Article 2 are translated so that this will be included in reality, we know that there will be a vocational education that will not be a problem, it would be very strange if, because this would be the first time in the world, maybe they had a very strange state of vocational education without problems, but it will continue to develop and I welcome these steps that are now ahead of us, and I am counting on them to be upgraded.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u95	Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, respectable representative of the government, respectable council! This is one of those laws that I read with interest, not to say, with pleasure, so "from the coat", is said domestically. Because I've read a few things inside that I know, some solutions that excite me, some things that are new to me. I'm not going to go into the details of any individual articles. I think that this will be a debate, a constructive debate on the part of the parent working body itself. Initially, I am in favour of the proposal for a law, regardless of whether there is an upgrade to the existing law, because the economy urgently needs these personnel. He needs, and there's no time for, I don't know, what kind of long study, given that it's possible to say that it's still inconceivable and that we still have to wait with him. I would like to say something from my own experience, from my own knowledge of the practice itself, that it will also be easier to discuss today and then also on the working body. 40 years ago, when I started my career as a young technician constructor in a large company, over 2,500 employees, this company also had a large, very well-known tool shop, about 200 employees, which belonged to the very tip of Slovenian tools, perhaps before the first three in Ljubljana, Slovenia, not to say in Yugoslavia, because Slovenia was far ahead of Yugoslav practice. This toolbox introduced a system of training and training of these professional professional staff in connection with vocational school. The group was a large 20-30 apprentices, had a leader, a professional master, who was only employed in this job, who accompanied these students in the school themselves, interested in their, I would say, theoretically acquiring knowledge and also raising them. This was the base that the company needed for both tools and tools, as well as for other jobs of metal processors, as well as for professional works in the production itself. The matter worked well and was a model where famous companies from Slovenia also went. And in a certain period came a well-known experiment, Slovenian socialist innovation, as we call it, targeted education. All of a sudden, the school closed down, the group finished its work, they began to lack these personnel, there were fewer and fewer of them on the market, schools, sociology, and technical professions. The rest of the school that did not come to any other school, from vocational schools, always came in worse. This was the outcome of this targeted education. I'm talking in this segment that I know, but maybe someone brought something positive, and I don't go into it, so others are more meticulous to say it. I just want to finish what happened to our toolbox. In 2002, the central company fell to three companies, two productions and a third company, which was a toolbox. In the market there were competitive specialised private tools, much cheaper, with similar quality. This toolbox was slowly resting because it was no longer competitive and could not penetrate foreign markets. The owners, both manufacturing companies, sold this toolkit to a private company, the owner of a private tool shop, which is now very well known, bought the toolbox, sold the premises, sold the machines and took over people because they are not easy on the market. And these special professions are not yet in the market today, but we have a lot of administrators, administrative workers, social workers and everything else. That's why I'm saying we need to start now. And I'd like to say some more of my views on the law itself. I support it because I think it's true because it excites me in its own way, because I think the solutions that improve the practice I've already said before, as for example, I would say what I think is very good, increasing flexibility by implementing professional standards, and especially by introducing modules. As I can see, this means that we have a broad, well-educated basic structure and content of education programmes as a basis, but we are upgrading with individual modules. This makes it possible for the first time, to adapt faster to the needs of the economy, because this is the primary objective for me and the second, which is good for the human being, so that a new job can quickly be obtained so that it can change jobs quickly. I think this flakiness is fine. I don't think it's particularly necessary to say that it's a permanent goal. The connection between education and work, the employer and the school, I talked about this being very well introduced 40 years ago, and then the matter collapsed. And a social partnership. Planning of education, programming and implementation of theory and practice. I think it's important that we don't come at a time when, like having too many professions, the case of auto mechanics, and not enough, I'm going to be very abstract about waiters or chefs. So this matter is being balanced. It also seems very important to me that this horizontal, in particular vertical transition, allows a person with additional or lifelong education to have the opportunity to acquire new professions and even get the highest education. This has been practically impossible so far, at least in this segment that I'm talking about, which I know. If he wanted to get more, he had to practically start from the beginning. Finally, I'd say I support the bill. To support it at all stages of acceptance, to confirm any additions that will improve individual articles. However, I will be a sharp critic of all those who would try in one way or another to prevent the law from coming into adoption and application as soon as possible. He needs a staff economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u97	Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. I welcome the Minister with my coworkers! I also think that vocational education in this country has been very under-exploited in the past. Even today's general debate on this law does not show, given the time we will spend on this, any great desire after this debate, nor has the law itself so far had some major comments on how it was written. I hope that the ministry that is preparing this new law will understand that it is in fact necessary to give greater emphasis to this segment of education. In the past, there has been a lot of emphasis on high school. And despite the fact that we all agree that it was necessary to create the conditions for more children who graduated from primary school to enter high school, it is true that vocational education should not be neglected. Because in the end it happened to us that we had a lot of kids who could be very successful in vocational schools, somehow in this direction, to fill out the seats in high school, to push into the high school programs, and then at the end, when this period is behind us, we'll find that we've got a lot of high school graduates who still haven't completed the study successfully. So, on the one hand, this problem, on the other hand, the problem that we are facing today is that we have deficits in some professions or, if you want, trade-related activities. I and this is a problem that needs to be addressed appropriately and with greater emphasis also to make these vocational schools interesting, but not to put on a somewhat lower rank and then some opinion emerges among primary school students if you are going to a vocational school, you have to go to high school. However, the second problem that has arisen through this vocational education is the fact that people come from our vocational schools with a profession that, in practice, does not actually manage in their field of work for which they have been trained. In other words, they lack practical knowledge. Although the school was supposed to provide this practical knowledge, somehow they did not learn through this school system what they would actually need for this profession. And if this segment of coming from these schools with more practical knowledge is done substantially more than ever, then this goal that the Ministry is following will also be achieved. The third thing I would like to draw attention to is many times in these vocational schools - and also teachers complain - a great lack of discipline. In fact, there are many problems here, and I think it is right that this law also introduces the responsibility of students, it is said that much more will be done on this segment, that students who are enrolled at this vocational school will consider this obligation to be compulsory, and that they will know that if they fail to comply with these programmes, if they are missing from the school curriculum, etc., that there will also be some consistency, but not as they so far as they have known only what their rights are, what they can afford, what they can do, but they have not often known about their duties. So I think there is actually a lot of work to be done at this level of vocational education. Much because in the past there has been much too little done in this area. In this general debate alone, Mr Minister, I would like to support you in these efforts, I would suggest that you take this area very seriously, and that, as has happened this year, the Minister of Higher Education has somehow tried to influence enrolment in colleges, that more positive propaganda be made on this segment of secondary or vocational education for the admission of young people to this professional level of education. And as I see the law with these credit points and with this addition, somehow it follows that young people who sign in, even at some point, can change their mind, go to a different level or vice versa. It seems to me that this is one very good solution and a positive solution in this direction that these transitions are already being made possible, eased and in this way more young people are convinced that in fact vocational education is their opportunity, not just high school, which is unfortunately a priority in many young people today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u99	Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your word. I have already said in my presentation to the Group that, of course, I support changes and upgrades across the whole range of education, especially in this sensitive vocational and professional education. Of course, I support openness, I support flexibility. And, Mr Minister, you certainly know that the chemical technique programme has already introduced a very broad selection in the fourth year, where I participated, where we have already introduced this choice and as much flexibility as possible to the needs of the labour market. However, I would like to say here in particular as a response to this debate, which has been said today, that it is necessary to move from the socialist importance of physical work to the importance of knowledge as a value. I hope that there is no one here who imagines that we have only come from a tree yesterday, but it seems very important to me that this value has long been present in the Slovenian space and if you look at all the ambitions and measures that have been in this area, you can only look at the statistics, or read them, or look at the statements of a colleague of Moget, who is actually a Member from the beginning and knows this very well. Therefore, I would say that it is very important what this government reports and if we had a message earlier, it does not matter: how you educate yourself if you are a problem in the labour market, you will do exactly what you do. Is this also a message in the sense that knowledge is a value? [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u101	Time's up. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It would have responded slightly differently to that comment on the socialist mindset itself. I remember they used to scare us like this in those days if you didn't go to school and you'd work. It is said that knowledge was also very stressed at the time and that this attitude towards work, although work was highly appreciated at the declaration level, has also helped to put the work in a somewhat deprived position and may also seek in this respect a reason why the self-image of those involved in vocational and professional education, in particular in vocational education, is not such as to ensure that the quality, running, non-problemal integration and acquisition of participants in this education is also ensured. A lot of feedback on this is that both parents and participants in education have a bad opinion of themselves, when, for nothing else, I am capable of this form of education. And the disciplinary problems we face in some such educational institutions are often, particularly in general educational subjects, associated with this violent reaction to negative or poor self-image. This would be worth a special thought and a special debate, but I just wanted to point out this problem because I want to put it in the context of these initiatives, but I want to shift my interest from high school or general education to vocational and vocational education. In particular, I cited the specific common European objective of achieving secondary education by 2010 of 80% of the active population. This is a high percentage, because if we follow the inclusion or capture of part of the population in secondary education as well as in the younger population, the education structure in the older years is not very favourable. The question is also what our relationship is in older years to lifelong education, and it is not to be forgotten about the statistics on functional illiteracy, where one of the criteria for determining functional literacy is also the willingness or attendance of different forms of education. However, it must be said that there is a marked difference between the sexes in the willingness to enter different forms of education. Well, I am reminding myself of this phenomenon because it seems to me in this law, for example, one of the good solutions is that it also introduces a vocational course, which allows after completing a high school to acquire a vocational or vocational education for those who do not show sufficient inclination or the ability to participate in higher education or higher education at the moment where they are most willing to continue it naturally, so to speak, in younger years. This, of course, opens up the possibility of continuing vertical education in later years. Of course, I think this issue is particularly important in the context of capturing that part of the population, which, for various reasons, remains out of education in younger years, and does not later find enough strength to integrate into different forms of education. I'm talking about rashes. And it might also suggest that all these relationships between the adult education law and the vocational and vocational education law are sufficiently clear, or that we might find a better solution. Well, I also believe that it is possible to strive to ensure that the protection of students in vocational and vocational education is as good as possible as the motivation for entering such a type of education. When I was reading the bill, I felt that the rights of students were relatively well defined in that part, which I could simply refer to as the theoretical part of education, where the student's rights are taken care of by the school both in protecting the student's assessment, all those options that are common in general education institutions. Some improvements could be made in the protection of these rights in the part where the student is involved in the practical part of education. The employer is there who also decides on these matters and there is no appeal body, such as, say, an appellate body in a theoretical study where there is a three-member commission. But if I am reading this part right, part 11, Procedure for the realization and protection of the rights of students, the rights and obligations of students resulting from practical training with the work carried out by the employer, the employer decides. I'd expect some other arrangements here. In fact, I think that education and behaviour and awareness of rights are necessary and that this is never too much, because I think that those involved in education are obliged to fulfil their basic obligation, which is most clearly expressed in this, and this is an obligation which is linked to fulfilling learning obligations and working obligations, so that I cannot agree to this issue, so that young people are only aware of their rights and are not aware of their responsibilities. Responsibilities grow from fulfilling educational and educational obligations. So I might warn you about a little bit more, because I don't know if I've read it all carefully and noticed it all, but, say, I think in theoretical work it's better to take care of students, because in article 60, the school for students has to organise at least one meal a day. This right is inconsistent with the right that a student has when he is in practical training. But the question is whether the employer, especially when he is a smaller employer, is also the one who provides food at work. These may be some such minor comments, but they should not escape my fundamental purpose. This is to ensure a balance between theoretical and practical work, which would not ultimately allow for greater motivation and greater alignment of those involved in vocational and vocational education with those in general education programmes. And now only the thought of how much professional and professional education can contribute to greater competitiveness in the labour market. I am sure that education cannot always follow the needs of the labour market as quickly as it would like. And even with the best of intentions, it is probably not possible to avoid anyone becoming involved in a programme that will become deficient when the programme is completed, but perhaps in the environment in which he lives, he will already become sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u103	Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. My colleague, Mr Sok, said that in the past period we did not deal enough with vocational education, and I would say that we have essentially ignored it. I hear private people a lot of times, entrepreneurs who say they come from schools, say, electricians, and they probably exaggerate -- they don't know how to replace fuses. Or mechanics, not to say what. They're probably exaggerating, but they still don't have any experience. It seems to me that it is good to start thinking again that practical knowledge is also needed. And even as a result of this attitude towards vocational education, we lack certain professions and are highly valued and well-paid. Like in construction, I don't know what exactly it's called, the ones who lay the tiles, wait six months, and you see, [[Ceramics, call me a colleague]] You have to pay them well, and so on. In fact, we have neglected certain professions because of such a negative attitude when we said: for a farmer, we know that we are importing seasonal workers today both in construction and in agriculture, because we were confident or able to do so. But that we must all have at least a college, or that this work is really humiliating and that the Slovenians should not be doing it. Even in my previous marriage, I heard when there was a debate, yes at all costs, and even if you're poor, you won't be able to handle every job. Why not? If you're unemployed, I don't think your crown will fall off your head! That is why I welcome this law, and I think it will be a great privilege if there is one cooperation between employers and schools, that children, students will find practice and that they will work with certain employers, that there will also be a greater opportunity for them to get a job there. It's also one guarantee that they won't be unemployed. Hand to heart, but today the schools were just hunting, looking for students, practically looking for them, advertising the media, and inviting them to schools, because we know that the number of children is getting smaller, and that they want to fill their departments. They had no interest in where these children would go, so they also wanted to go to higher education, etc., just because they actually had one status, because they didn’t know where they were going after their education, although many would like to go to work and study some profession and get to bread earlier. But I also have doubts or questions about individual articles. It says that the minister has to sign off on so many school towns as individual student contracts have been concluded. What if, in the beginning, there is not enough interest in employers to hire or conclude a contract of practice or practical study? How will action be taken in this case? And I also have one compliment. For example, Article 56 - not only justice, not punishment; but not punishment, I think these penalties, but alternative educational measures are more just, or more humane or educational, than punishment, exclusion from school, if any useful work were to be done - but no, with the consent of the students, this would not stand as an obligation or as a decision by the teacher or employer. In short, we welcome this law and it could be further improved or perhaps more clearly written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u105	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members and Members! Thank you once again for the opportunity to answer the question and dilemmas you have opened in this interesting debate. I could say that today is a strange day, given the constructive debate. Obviously, the area of vocational and professional education is excluded from the zone of ideological and cultural conflicts, and I like that very much. I can say that the preparation of this law took place in such an atmosphere. At the beginning, the drafting of the law or annex lasted for quite some time, including the widest possible range of both social partners, economic chambers and external experts who have worked for years in the field of school legislation and professional and professional legislation. Indeed, there may be some open questions, including some other error, or perhaps even a better sentence, a sermon that would be clearer. However, it seems to me that, in the professional circles so far, this bill has come across quite broad support, and I have seen something similar in this debate, which I am grateful for. Just a few brief interventions. We have indeed abolished the institution of apprentices, even because a very small number of students have benefited from this institution, which also includes status or, say, professional and pension insurance. Now we've shut down the dual system that had this involvement, and that's what made it superfluous. Some organisational and human resources problems mentioned during the debate will be regulated by another law, the law on financing education and education, namely the ZOFI. Also mentioned were the Lisbon goals and some "bench-marks", which are regularly measured in these simple reports, "Education and Training". I have no accurate data on the proportion of those who graduate from secondary school in Slovenia, but I can say that participation in secondary school, as well as general and vocational education and vocational education, is 98%, which is very large and means that secondary education is becoming part of even general compulsory education. While we are involved in lifelong education, we are significantly above the European average and we are already above the desired quota 15%, so that we have somewhere between 17% and 18%, which Slovenia is at the very top of inclusion. See, also this good debate on knowledge and competences - it is true that knowledge usually refers more often to general education or tertiary education, including to the scientific and research sphere, so that competences are somewhat more used in the context of vocational education. However, it is true that the concept is covered, not entirely, but that the competences apply to that more useful knowledge, and of course there are no pure divisions. This is partly linked to the debate of Member Gabra, how general, how much professional and practical training, education, how many of these skills and how many of them. In part, there is also a "competent trade" in Slovenia between the two professional bodies, state bodies, this is, for general and vocational education. Here, we will have to put an end to this eternal conflict at systemic level, or somehow agree that we will finally better determine some extent of general knowledge in the field of vocational and professional education. The fact is, we don't work the school network forever. If we put it this way, of course the school system in this area would be under-responsive to the needs of the economy. As far as deficits are concerned [[End warning sign]] , we are working very hard to eliminate the deficit of certain professions. We are also introducing new programmes, such as mechatronics, to which the economy has responded extremely positively. We also introduce some innovations in the field of discipline or school order, such as alternative punishment. The rights of students are also well cared for, already protected by the contract, inspections and trade unions. Not last time, if you don't mind. At that time, they fall under another labour law, not so much under education. Finally, if you look at paragraphs 37 and 38, the legislator shall have [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u107	All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Three of them showed up for the debate. The debate may take five minutes. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable present. I myself and I think that we also support colleagues in the Slovenian National Party, I will say, the intention and more difficult Minister of the Beast by making professional and professional education a step forward and coming from what is here repeatedly called today in the debate, another plan. The purpose of the law, as we understand it, is above all an incentive, and I will say an increase in interest in vocational education between students or those who decide to continue their studies. We have also heard that there are more children in high school than vocational education, that there are no children in vocational education and that they can, I say, offer more. We have also heard a few words, mainly I think by the government Members, about how craftsmanship should be developed or what opportunities it should offer. However, as a recommendation, it is possible as well-intentioned advice - why are so few children or students involved in vocational education? Perhaps cooperation between the ministry led by Mr Beast and the Ministry of Finance and Economy is even crucial. I myself agree with all the statements, Mr Minister, which you have stated in your debate that this is a deficit sector, that there is little interest, and therefore this interest should be encouraged. However, children who decide whether they are going towards general education or towards vocational education are about 15 years old and already know something about how the finances stand, how the taxes are in this country and what the prospects are in the competitiveness market. That is why it is very interesting to hear, especially from the mouth of government Members and the ruling coalition, how everyone promotes professional and vocational education, how good it is in craftsmanship, how great it is to be an auto mechanic, when the Minister of Finance comes to this speaker and we accept additional taxes for craftsmen, small entrepreneurs and there is no development strategy, at least in these two years no, but they are happy to type in for, it seems to me that this is a little incomprehensible combination. The Ministry of Education understands and reiterates, I support the intention to encourage vocational and professional education and make it more interesting. But I still say, it is not only in your ministry that this problem has been addressed well, I think that it should also be addressed in the Ministry of Finance and the economy and within the entire government in a way that people will also find out, "but it is possible to do so" so that they will not decide on vocational and professional schools just because they simply do not have enough grades, but also to find that this country offers them some opportunity to live and develop in the field of small entrepreneurship to help them develop it. But I think it's a little bit of a delusion. We all encourage here today when income laws come, and then we squeeze a little differently than we speak today. And this demagic is a little funny and misleading for people. But good, because it's up to people to evaluate themselves, but as I say, I will support this ministry's intention under the proposal for a law on vocational and professional education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u109	Mr. Anton Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u110	Nice greetings for me, too. I didn't come forward in the regular debate because I wasn't ready yet. Initially, the debate went quite wide in the first reading, so there might be some general findings and then some questions raised by the providers of this education. I myself have been teaching in these spheres for 15 years, and I do not know the situation in the last two years, but I would like to point out two things that I have not seen today, especially the work with the staff working in these institutions. I myself find that the professional work with the staff has been highly nourished. Given that technology is practically making remarkable progress in all areas, there is a need to invest a lot of energy and knowledge in the workforce in these areas and also to be properly selected. In vocational schools and vocational schools, the second - grade staff often end up in the line of employment, unfortunately as well as the students attending these schools. However, given that we know that the success of the Lisbon Strategy and also the success of Slovenia in the economic sense depends in the long term very heavily on service activities, much more on my assessment, than on the high technological products that we will obviously be more difficult to compete with to other countries and because service activities are keyly linked to this education profile, I think that this part of education should receive one high priority in the education policy in Slovenia in general, which it has not yet had. This has always been dealt with after the remaining areas of education have somehow been regulated. However, the current situation in the European Union shows and percentages also show that service activities are one of the key economic activities in the European Union and also for Slovenia, it is my view that this is a great opportunity. From this point of view, I would like to pay much more attention to the staffing and also to the remuneration of teachers, which I think is completely inappropriate at this point. Teacher award is arranged according to what teachers do outside the classroom, not by what they do in the classroom. And I think that this system has already been introduced under previous leadership and that it needs to be changed urgently. With regard to the content of the law itself, however, questions are raised by the operators themselves regarding the strong role of the Chambers, namely participation in the preparation of the programmes, which is certainly desirable, and in the implementation itself it is necessary to look at the extent to which it is good that they actually implement part of the school or educational process, to which part of this should remain solely within the competence of the schools, because of the problem of evaluation criteria and so on. In Article 9, in the case of professional standards, where it is now stated that they are proposed by the Chamber or proposed by the Chambers, it would also be appropriate, after my assessment, to indicate that they can also be proposed by schools, since these standards are then adopted or not. These are just suggestions. In Article 32 of the employer's mandate, if I am correctly informed, Mr President, I would like to ask you kindly if, during my discussion, Mrs Bredi Pecan would let you know that I have the floor. He talks all the time. Article 32 provides that the employer should also be concerned about whether the student regularly attends school or other obligations. Here I think it is more appropriate that this is still within the competence of the parents and here there is also a problem related to Article 32 concerning the payment of prizes to those students who are with the relevant employers. In Articles 70 and 71, I would point out, as well as in Article 32, the consistency or non-compliance of the assessment tasks by the employer and the evaluation rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u111	Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u112	Thank you for your word and for another chance to say something. Article 2 was opened several times today or discussed. It is that we have also tried to introduce among these objectives a whole set of key key competences, which are also now the subject of debate at European Union level. From linguistic expression, computer literacy, and also the possibilities for the active involvement of an individual in society, this is a selection of key competences that are not solely or exclusively linked to professional competences, which means that we also need to equip students in the field of vocational and professional education with certain skills and skills that they will need in life at all, not only in the labour market or in the company. That is why I think this supplement, Article 2, or those objectives are extremely important that it may also have some impact on the improvement of that general education module. And in some ways, it also answers this constant dilemma between the relationship, between general theoretical or professional and practical knowledge, behavior, or competence. Houses are included all over the world, even in some countries they are carriers of all vocational education, both planning, programming and enforcement, having such a strong role and meaning. In a way, we've been ethatizing this little bit, supporting it all because of our specific environments, size and so on and traditions. But it is right that they are strongly involved because they have, they are somehow a representative of the economy and only the economy knows what is a good professional competence and what is not. And that's right. However, if schools are included, if there are prospects and more schools, including from the private sector, there is no reason for them not to appear if they have, say, proposals for improving professional competences, but why not, the expert council will also consider them as any other proposal. And there's a stereotype that I hear more than once. Some say, however, that when a student comes from school, he knows when Mars was born, but he can't turn on a machine, or he wants to say that he has some general competences, while these practical useful behaviors and skills are lacking. You could say that's not the case. I think that this stereotype is often used unjustifiably, that the knowledge of our students is also high in the field of vocational and professional education, but of course they are significantly different from those of our times, the times of typical industrial society, when the Kevin had this and these skills. Today, however, the structure of society, including the economic structure of society, is substantially changing and other student profiles are needed, other professional profiles and different skills as they used to be. We have also recently managed to create such a material structure to improve material working conditions in the field of professional work as well. In particular, they play an important role here, Mici, an inter-enterprise educational centre, which allows in addition to theoretical and some other offers, also excellent top-notch practical training. I hope that, in the near future, we will form several such centres across the country, and the rest must cover the economy alone. Both comments by Members are justified. It is true that some way will have to be found to encourage greater integration of the economy at all levels, including in the implementation of vocational and professional education itself. In contrast, the staff are educated as much as possible, so that teachers follow the current pace, even if you want, of information and communication technology, which is increasingly difficult. Once again, I would like to emphasise, and the Chambers must be as involved in this process as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 33rd item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.05 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 31. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - FIRST DESCRIPTION PROPOSAL OF A BLOOD BLOOD SURVEILLANCE LAW. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members with the first signed Merrani Potrče requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Here you are, Mr. Dojan Marusic, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u114	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me a brief introduction to the debate on the blood supply law. The area of blood supply has been regulated by the Blood Supply Act 2000. After this year, there has been a change in the relationship of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Community and the legal order of the European Community concerning the supply of blood, and a new law has to be drawn up which includes the provisions of the European acquis, the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Community of 2000 and 2005 respectively. The basic principle of the law is to ensure quality and safety standards in the collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human blood and blood components as set out in the above Directives. This establishes the European Community quality and safety criteria for blood transfusions. The Blood Supply Act provides for the introduction, maintenance and completion of a comprehensive quality system to be appointed by a competent legal person responsible for the implementation of the blood quality and safety law, including the hemovigilance system. These tasks will be carried out by the public agency of the Republic of Slovenia for medicines and medical devices at the Ministry of Health, which will establish a special organisational unit for blood. It will also be responsible for carrying out regular inspections and will have to take appropriate measures in the event of a serious adverse event or serious adverse reaction. Once the blood supply law is in place, blood prices may increase with a view to establishing maintenance and improvement of the quality system, regular training of staff and the provision and maintenance of the information system, increased administrative work and daily blood and blood delivery. For this purpose, the Republic of Slovenia is provided for a single blood transfusion institution responsible for the collection, testing and processing of blood and blood products, irrespective of the intended purpose of use, and for their processing, storage, distribution and treatment where they are intended for transfusion. The law also provides for the establishment of a blood transfusion centre responsible for the collection, testing, conversion and storage of blood collected into blood components in the hospital. It performs pre-transfusion testing and hospital transfusion activities and supplies blood and blood products to hospitals and other consumers. Both the Transfusion Office and the Transfusion Centre must obtain a permit from the public agency of the Republic of Slovenia for medicinal products and medical devices to verify that they comply with the statutory requirements of both responsible persons and other personnel of the premises, equipment and other conditions prescribed in the law. The Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Transfusion Medicine is the Transfusion Institute, which is responsible at national level for the professional level of supply of blood and blood products and the integration of transfusion medicine with hospital activities, runs a single information system, professional education and development research activities and cooperates with international organisations, associations and related institutions in other countries. In our country, the principle of voluntary anonymous and unpaid blood is still valid. The country's blood needs are determined by the Ministry of Health on the basis of the annual blood needs plan. However, the Red Cross of Slovenia remains the national coordinator and organizer of blood-spectrum actions in Slovenia. So much for an introduction to the debate on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u116	Mr President, the Secretary of State with co-workers and co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! In the Republic of Slovenia we have a valid blood supply law with the year 2000. All who still remember the adoption of this law know that there were already attempts to reduce the role of the Red Cross in the supply of blood. At the time, the National Assembly adopted a law stating that the Red Cross of Slovenia is the main organizer of blood-giving actions, and at the same time determined that the Red Cross of Slovenia and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Transfusion Medicine should prepare a plan of blood-giving actions for each year. Indeed, the law also laid down in Article 11 that blood-spectrum actions may also be carried out by other blood-spectrum organisers who have collected at least 500 blood-spectrums in the past year and obtained the Minister's permission. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we agree with the desire of those responsible for the supply of blood to ensure, through law, the quality and safety standards in the selection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human blood and blood components, as set out in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Community. In doing so, we note the need to build on the good experience of the work so far in this area. In view of the experience in the field of blood donation, we will oppose any attempt to limit the role of the Red Cross as the national organizer of the blood supply. As is known, the Red Cross of Slovenia has been concerned for more than 50 years with maintaining the principle of self-sufficiency in the supply of blood and blood products. It is important to note that for the sake of self-sufficiency it is necessary to provide 400 blood donors or blood donors daily. Of course, also in the Social Democrats Group, we are aware that the situation has changed significantly since the time of the blood supply, as found on the Red Cross, the true solidarity movement based on the greatest and most important values. Bleeding, as found on the Red Cross, is no longer a mass gathering event. Employers, or their understanding of the need for blood supply, are increasingly important. If this absence is viewed merely as their expense, the problems are certainly present. The Labour Relations Act, which has been in force since 1.1.2003, provides that the blooddresser has a day off when he voluntarily donates blood. However, some employers consider this day to be a disease stock, although the amount of compensation is subject to the Health and Health Insurance Act, which provides for 100% of the base. We support the views of the Red Cross of Slovenia, which wants to create such conditions that will enable healthy, informed, full-year individuals to go on blood-giving actions. Create conditions in which the interest of capital will not be more important and stronger than ensuring minimum health care for patients who need blood for treatment and recovery. In the area of blood supply, it is essential to provide means to complete the reorganisation of the transfusion service and to accelerate the functioning of the National Blood Supply Council at the Ministry of Health and to establish a quality, uniform database of blood donors, which will also allow the Red Cross, as an organiser of blood-giving actions, to access the right data on blood donors. If today's decision on the appropriateness of the proposed text of the law is adopted, we will table amendments to the Socialist Group of Members to try to achieve that the Red Cross will have the status of a national blood donation organiser who is authorised to organise blood-stress actions while at the same time giving consent to other providers of blood-stressing actions and coordinating coordinated action. With a certain amendment to the current legal regime, it would be legal to provide that other blood providers can also carry out blood donation activities provided that they have gathered at least 500 new ones in the past year, I would stress, new blood donors under the conditions mentioned earlier. Finally, let me just add that it is necessary to make it clear that, in accordance with the law on working relations, the blood donor is free to work day.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be delivered by Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u118	Nice greeting, chairman. Nice greeting, to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health and his co-workers. Nice greetings, Members and Members of Parliament. The use of blood, blood products and blood products, including biotechnological blood substitutes, is certainly one of the most sensitive areas that should be subject to high quality standards. Despite the decline in blood consumption as a result of advances in medicine, blood flow is also essential in the future to encourage as many people as possible. Although the number of blood donors has dropped slightly since the 1990s, according to the experts, there is no fear that there might be a shortage of blood for medical purposes. In New Slovenia, we support that the law continues to guide the activity of equal and sufficient supply and traffic of the population with blood and blood products based on and on the principle of self-sufficiency and voluntary unpaid blood supply in order to ensure a sufficient number of blood donors or blood donors. Of course, the constant involvement of blood donors and blood donors is important for stock management, so in New Slovenia it seems important that this law, according to the leaky rhythm of blood supply actions, will in no way affect more than 90 000 blood donors who will still be able to come to one of the 9 hospitals, to a blood transfusion facility or to seizures organised in the field. In doing so, they would like to express their sincere thanks for their noble mission on behalf of New Slovenia, i.e. the blood donors and blood donors, because none of us knows whether the potential recipient of this life’s fluid will be there within the next hour. In New Slovenia, we support innovations compared to the previous law that will affect the higher safety of recipients of blood and blood products, both in terms of tracking from donor to recipient, and in particular with regard to the introduction of more effective investigations into early detection of possible blood infections with different, already known, diseases, as well as those we do not know enough. In view of the high requirements both for technical devices on the one hand, and in particular for the requirements for highly skilled human resources resources, we believe that the proposal for a law, such as the one proposed, concerns the number of establishments or centres responsible for blood control, is adequately designed and slightly more centralised. We hope that we will also be able to follow the expert opinion at political level and that we will not create artificial tension, for example between Ljubljana and Maribor. On the one hand, we need to be able to see that there are about 2 million of us in the country, but above all, we need to take care of the safety of the recipients, and the dispersion of personnel and equipment would certainly not help. Above all, in the case of New Slovenia, they would strongly oppose all possible aspirations or ideas that the exercise of this activity would go to a private level, or that they would put in place mechanisms that would allow this danger under the provisions of the law. In New Slovenia, we therefore support the basic orientations of the new proposal towards ensuring standards, quality and safety in the collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of blood. Of course, today's debate is also aimed at perhaps deciding in the course of the debate and drawing up other proposals that we will examine in the New Slovenia Group and decide whether we might be able to contribute to a further improved text of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Blood Supply Act, which regulated the blood supply in the Republic of Slovenia until now, was adopted in 2000. At that time, however, there have been changes in the attitude of the Republic of Slovenia towards the European Community and the legal order in the European community relating to the supply of blood. This is the main reason for the adoption of the new law, as the existing blood supply law no longer provides the basis for the implementation of European rules. The basic principle of the proposal for a blood supply law is to ensure quality and safety standards in the collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human blood and blood components, as set out in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Community. When the National Assembly adopted a blood supply law in 2000, the law stipulated voluntary and unpaid blood supply and national self - sufficient blood supply as an obligation. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are pleased that the new proposal for a law on voluntary and unpaid blood supply and self-sufficiency in the supply of blood retains those provisions of the 2000 law that ensure a high level of quality and safety of blood supply. However, after the adoption of the law in Slovenia it will be necessary to introduce and maintain a comprehensive quality system in the area of blood supply. To this end, the draft law provides for the establishment of an organisational unit for blood within the public agency of the Republic of Slovenia for medicines and medical devices. However, it is also clear from the proposal that inspections and controls carried out under the Health Act will be regular after the law has been passed and their implementation will be more transparent. It is understandable that a different organisation within the public agency of the Republic of Slovenia will also have certain financial implications for the state budget for medicines and medical devices. The budget expenditure to be incurred under the budget line of the Ministry of Health is foreseen in 2007. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the proposal for a blood supply law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. As has already been said, the first law was passed in 2000 and needs to be supplemented in some way, introduced in European standards and amended accordingly. Ensuring standards and quality, and in particular the safety of blood collection in Slovenia, comes first. This is commendable, as is the way in which the blood supply is now taking place in Slovenia. However, I would point out that there is a question in public - even before the law was presented, there was a lot of talk in public about ending the day off for the blooddresser, but the text of the law does not mention it. Therefore, I would like an additional explanation by the representative of the Government. The payment of travel costs shall be suspended. This is bad, in some ways it can also be expected from this title that there may be a lower response in the area of voluntary blood donation. If we look at the increase in bureaucracy in the proposal, this can only be justified if security in this area is also increased, as we know that uncontrolled security systems can cause a major health disaster in Slovenia in general. Looking at the financial implications, about 25 million SIT would actually increase annually this item, which, as has already been said, can be justified if the administrative personnel are increased due to greater control. At the same time, I would like to call on my colleagues and colleagues - because bloodguilt in Slovenia is falling - so that it is possible to respond to and organise the day of bloodguilt in the National Assembly and thus set a positive example in this humane action being carried out throughout Slovenia. I think that would be a very nice act. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is also in the eyes. Look, with us, asylum-seekers are modelly provided, they have a nice status and a nice level of care, and maybe there's someone who would like to respond in a way that would make him a blooddresser. Because it is a fact that bleeding is not associated with any racial differences and it would be good for us to offer this possibility to those who are temporarily in Slovenia. As I said before, changes in this law are necessary and we support them on our part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u124	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all of our country's blood donors, the Red Cross and the institutions that collect blood that have provided this vital fluid of life decades ago with their work and humanity. In our parliamentary group, we agree with the proposal for a blood supply law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and will therefore be supported. Millions of people around the world owe their lives to individuals who will never meet them, to people who have donated their blood without expecting any payment. This area of health care, the area of blood supply, has long been in the shadows of more spectacular clinical professions, and in its sense, there is nothing behind them, as it is, both in scale and in direct association with society, incompatible with any other area of health. In particular, the importance of blood supply increased when new blood-borne diseases highlighted the importance of safe and quality blood transfusions. The existing legislation on blood supply in Slovenia is already comparable to developed countries and needs to be adapted to the changes in the acquis of the European Union, which is the most important reason for the adoption of such an amended and amended law. Members of the DeSUS Group are aware of the importance of the principle of self-sufficiency, which is incorporated into the proposal for a law, ensuring that there are so many blood providers that it will effectively meet the needs of blood health in the new socio-economic and social conditions. We stress that, on the basis of selected blood, within one nation, it is possible to provide significantly greater security in this area. Of course, there is a need for support from the wider social community. Indeed, volunteering, non-payment and anonymity have already proved to be a good basis for blood supply in the past, so in the Group of Members we assess as a positive decision by the Applicant that he has incorporated these principles into the proposal for a new law. The bill also includes the preparation and adoption of a number of sub-legislative acts, i.e. rules on the organisation and procedure for issuing or withdrawing the authorisation of blood establishments, on the system for the identification of blood, on transfusion testing, on the provision of information with the future blood supplier, on the testing of blood taken, on the treatment of unused blood and others. The adoption of these regulations will certainly have the area of blood supply in Slovenia fully rounded up, but we believe that it would indicate in the law specific conditions for and a certain part of the content of the regulations envisaged in the law already in law, because the area is very difficult, highly professionally difficult and due to the legal certainty and certainty of the Ministry's mandate to issue individual regulations may have some substantive provisions within the framework of the law itself that would simplify this problem. The proposed law certainly provides a basis for a high level of quality and safety of blood supply, so we will also support it in the DeSUS Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill will give an opinion on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u126	Dear Mr President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! Even in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are proud of Slovenian blooddressers and blooddressers, who provide blood needs in Slovenia in an unselfish way, and especially in a humanitarian way. That is why blood should be treated with care, especially in order to avoid infections. And that is why he will care or provide for the new law that we are dealing with today. The proposal for this blood supply law is to ensure those necessary quality and safety standards in the collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human blood and its components that comply with European Union rules. The fundamental principle of this law is to ensure quality and security standards for collection, as laid down in European Union legislation. The law also lays down the obligation to drive, maintain and supplement a comprehensive quality system. To this end, the proposal of this Act lays down the establishment of an organisational blood unit within the framework of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicines and Medical Devices, which, as an authorised authority, will be responsible for the implementation of the law on the quality and safety of blood supply, including the hemovigilance system. The inspections and controls carried out under the Health Act will also be more regular and more transparent after the adoption of this proposed law. The bill covers the entire transfusion chain in the Republic of Slovenia and ensures a high level of quality and safety in the supply of blood to the population. The draft law provides that blood collection and testing activities and blood components shall be carried out, irrespective of the intended purpose of use, their preparation, storage and distribution, where they are intended for transfusion, by a blood transfusion institute or a transfusion centre designated by the competent agency. The Centre may carry out that activity if it is authorised by the Agency. The draft law also provides that a transfusion institution or centre shall appoint a person who is also responsible for the collection and testing of each unit of blood or component, irrespective of the intended purpose of use, and processed, stored and distributed when intended for transfusion, of course in accordance with this law. It is also important that personnel, systems, quality and documentation records, traceability, severe, adverse events and severe adverse reactions are met in the transfusion plant or transfusion centre. The law also lays down minimum requirements for education and qualifications to be met by that responsible person. Especially important are the provisions of the law regarding the quality and safety of blood and blood components, especially in the light of the individual who needs blood or blood components and preparations in moments where he fights for a healthy life. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the proposed law is important in this area, so we will also open it for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will give his position to the LDS Group of Members. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Mr Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. In the presentation of the position on the blood supply law, we would like to draw first attention to the importance of bleeding in the Republic of Slovenia. The changed social situation as a result of general social and economic development also leads to changes in the attitude of people to solidarity, which is a fundamental basis for ensuring adequate and sufficient supply of blood. In doing so, account must also be taken of the ageing of the population, which is causing increased blood requirements, while new blood donors are becoming increasingly difficult to obtain. In doing so, we would like to draw particular attention to the fact that bleeding is one of the broadest organised actions in Slovenia, which ensures, inter alia, a high level and smooth functioning of health care. We are so proud that Slovenia, with 5% of its blood donors, still fully covers its blood needs and Slovenian blood supply enjoys a great reputation in Europe. The main credits for self-sustainment have so far been borne by the main organiser of the blood supply in Slovenia by the Red Cross organization with 56 regional associations, which, together with the Institute of Transfusion Medicine and Transfusion Services in Slovenia, participate in ensuring the smooth supply of safe blood to the healthcare system. Let me illustrate that Slovenia's Red Cross organises more than 300 field-based blood supply actions each year, and their projections for this year range to more than 1,100 blood-giving actions for health care in the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the principles of freeness, volunteerism and anonymity. Hereafter, on behalf of the LDS Club, I would like to highlight the key issues and dilemmas we have on the proposal for blood supply laws. In doing so, I would also like to stress the fact that the law in the parliamentary procedure is much later than it was originally presented in the Government's or the Ministry of Health's programme, which means that we are significantly late to introduce changes on the basis of European rules. Directives of previous years define quality standards for the collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human blood and blood components and thus lay down European Community criteria for ensuring quality and safety in blood transfusions. By setting minimum standards in the European Community countries, the existing differences between countries should be reduced and the supply of blood improved. However, it is important that the directive does not provide for voluntary and unpaid blood supply, self-sufficiency in the supply of blood, blood components and medicines from blood. For the reasons already mentioned in the introduction, we believe that the existing conditions and traditions should be maintained and that the status should be regulated for both the blooddressers and the organisers, who will pursue the objectives of voluntary anonymous and free bleeding. The State must make sure by means of appropriate active mechanisms that it strengthens the individual’s awareness of the importance of blood supply, since we believe that bloodletting should become even more a part of the social consciousness, while at the same time the carriers would be given appropriate social validity. Promoting voluntary blood donation must be the concern of all political and other social actors in the Republic of Slovenia and it is not only the Red Cross of Slovenia. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Health, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, the Red Cross of Slovenia, health establishments, means of public information, schools, societies, companies and other organisations are obliged to inform and encourage residents of the importance of blood supply. Due to the inadequate financial evaluation of the programme, the reorganisation of the transfusion service has led to a stalemate and the reorganisation of this service should be carried out until the end. The role and importance of the Transfusion Centre as an integral part of the hospital in Article 21 and the Transfusion Institute in Article 26 are not clearly and precisely defined. So what is the consistency of the law in this part, given that it is not clear what is the difference between the work of the transfusing institutions with the same content of the work as the transfusion centres. It is also a matter of control, since the transfusion centres within hospitals have control and the transfusion facilities do not. It is not clear who are responsible in both cases. We believe that this is a violation of a legitimate principle, since the law should clearly state what conditions a responsible person must fulfil. There is still no clear status of the hospital blood bank, so we believe that it is necessary to define more clearly the placement of the hospital in the system. Therefore, in our view, the issue of the transfusional activity network in Slovenia remains open. The question is how current blood collection and testing activities will work, what changes to the present law will mean for existing capacities. This question is not answered because there is no assessment of the state of transfusional activity in the Republic of Slovenia in the context of the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law and the current network of hospitals carrying out the blood collection and testing activity is not defined. There is no clear answer as to what will happen to existing capacities, appliances and other equipment and personnel. We also find the financial consequences of the law questionable. The law enforces the reorganisation. Is this just about increased bureaucracy, as we can follow other health bills? There is no answer as to what will be the new prices of more demanding procedures, no methodology is known to determine the price of blood and blood products, all of which will have to be paid by hospitals over the price of blood, and more resources will be provided by the health department. In any event, the reallocation of funds within the health register must not affect other compulsory healthcare rights. At the same time, there is still no clear answer on the number of transfusion facilities and not the financial assessments on their functioning. It is interesting that the law, in the light of such definitions of financial consequences, has been able to enter into the legislative procedure, while preventing Members of our Group from entering into laws on the grounds that they are not adequately mentioned financial resources in the budget. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that the organisation of the implementation of the blood supply area should be fully and accurately recorded, much of which should be devoted to information and benefits in the field of insurance or access to health services, the regulation of the database and the information system, since communication between blood providers and health institutions is not always optimal. The current information system, which is owned by the Office of Transfusion Medicine, is a professional obstacle to the hospital's functioning, so we believe that the best care provider would be the Ministry of Health or the blood agency. In conclusion, I would like to stress once again that in the LDS Club, we support the idea that with appropriate institutes, it is necessary to bring this noble act of blood donation closer to each individual in our society and thus to cultivate a willingness to help our fellow man. We will therefore support the law at first reading in the LDS Club of Members, while at the same time we expect the applicant to take our comments into account in the following procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u129	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Dear President! As has already been said, I am also a blood donor, I believe that it is necessary to do everything possible to increase this kind of human action in terms of participants in Slovenia. We know it's raining. The need for blood is growing, and it is appropriate that the law itself does not violate the already existing right of blood donors. I would really like a representative of the government, Mr Marušič, who is with us today, to explain whether he will end this day, which is intended to be a free day for the bloodsuckers to participate in the bloodsucker action, or whether he will remain. Because I have followed this answer in particular, and we have also sought an answer in the other parliamentary groups. We didn't get an answer in the professional services. The other thing that bothers me, as I've already said, is that the cancellation of the travel expenses for blooddressers has paid off. That's not acceptable either. I'd like you to consider not doing this. Because it would be right to maintain the existing rights offered by this law, which is in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u131	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u132	Thank you. In the characteristic image of Slovenia, Trstenjak wrote that it is characterized by solidarity. It is no wonder, therefore, that in this area of northeastern Slovenia the fact that paid blood supply or collection of blood products has been extremely strong. The public controversy that followed in the media encouraged me to ask the Ministry of Health in this regard and to get an answer that did not say much about the blood supply strategy, but ensured that the blood supply would remain anonymous, voluntary and free in Slovenia in the future. It is understandable, therefore, that I have been particularly looking forward to the proposal for a blood supply law because I am interested in what is possible in this law, which would suggest different solutions from all the solutions that have proved to be good in the blood supply in Slovenia so far, as positive, and which have strengthened this value, which we especially appreciate by the Social Democrats, is solidarity. Therefore, I think it is important to stress what Bojan Kontič has already said in the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary group, that we think it is very important that the status of the national organiser of the blood donation is attributed to the Red Cross of Slovenia and that this is particularly clearly enshrined in the law. Otherwise, it might be possible to understand some of the provisions of this law in a different way, with clear support that bloodletting should remain so in the future, as has emerged from all positions of the sent groups, but it might be possible that the area of the blood donation organisation could try to transfer to another organisation, as is also possible in the law in force, so that such status as the organiser of the blood donation actions may also be acquired by another organization that collects 500 blood donors. Therefore, the fact that they must be new blood breeders, not those that would have been taken from the Red Cross, from now on, is irrelevant. So it also appears to support all those provisions that promote bloodletting in connection with a healthy lifestyle, for you cannot be a blood donor if you are not healthy. It would therefore suggest that some of the incentives, to which I am also considered in the law on working relations, should be maintained on the day of the blood donation. It is not encouraging to know that a variety of blooddressers prefer to take leave than to enforce a legal right on a day off from their employer. Of course, I will support the law at first reading, and I am also aware that it could be further improved in the course of the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u133	Thank you. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I believe that the adoption of this law is in fact linked only to the adaptation of European legislation, which is somewhat late, given that even the very explanation of the law states that it should have been adapted to directives in February of last year. But, although late, from the heart, as the blood is coming, I would like to join colleagues and colleagues who have already told them that the Red Cross of Slovenia must necessarily remain the carrier and the chief coordinator of the bloodstream actions, even if there is any other organiser of the bloodstreaming. In doing so, I reiterate that the new organisers must ensure that the circle of blood donors is spreading, not that some method, as the children have said, is being stolen. And thirdly, what is certainly most important - the problem of absence from work, not so much because of the remuneration of personal income, but because of the fact that all absences from non-working work are extremely unpopular in employers. As a result, the law should in some way encourage employers to support their employees in their decision to give blood, not to ban them from going to blood. Finally, I would like to ask what is meant by the rule of law that a blood centre or a blood transfusion centre or a blood transfusion station can empower individuals to perform tasks that are intended only for the blood centre and the station. That's what I'd like to ask the representative of the Ministry. However, I believe that the law in the first reading makes sense to support the law by proposing that fellow Members and Members, but also that the government take into account our proposals for corrections in the second and third readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr Kontic has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Would you like a representative of the government? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u136	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In this brief response from the government, I would also like to express the great enthusiasm I have when I present the law. The system itself, the organisation of transfusing activities in Slovenia somehow better legalises something that we already have in organizational, implementing terms in Slovenia and has been in complete parallel with the EU. Let me assure you, as you yourself have pointed out, many or most have participated in these actions, that safety, quality of blood supply, information system in Slovenia is at an extremely high level of envy. If I take it for a minute, what does marriage do? In coordination with the directive, it brings, legalises a new or more efficient way of organising, introduces control and introduces an information system in a way that ensures greater security, quality in this important tissue as it represents blood. All the fears that have been exposed and somehow entrenched that they are hidden in the law or that they are not clearly expressed, let me assure you that there are virtually no changes here. The law does not make any changes in terms of the voluntary donation of blood and that this is still in terms of substitution in another legislation. So there are no changes here, which was the fear of some Members. With regard to the role of the Red Cross, this preserves the national essence of the former law. The change you have read has only been placed on us to allow for greater flexibility. Let me tell you that today there have been situations where the transfusion forces had to call the blooddressers on holiday weekends to ensure adequate blood supply in these days, and that at some point a reference to a critical number of people could make this more difficult to function. We are pleased with these debates, initiatives that you have somehow presented and we hope that the law can also be adopted in further coordination and consideration. But let me also tell you that there is no way in the health system to target as many blood as possible. In the last ten years, both in Europe and in Slovenia, there has been a decline in the number of withdrawals, as health systems, doctors, nurses are becoming more effective with early interventions. Last year, with 85,000 seizures, which is about 5% less than 10 years ago, we fully assured the needs of the blood of citizens and citizens who were in health systems. Above all, it is a very good organization, rapid response, in order to ensure safe, quality blood supply. We are convinced that with the law before you, we are legislating what we already have in most of Slovenia, but slightly differently organised, more effective with proper supervision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u137	Thank you. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Pechanova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u138	Mr State Secretary, I asked, otherwise I did not mention the article, article 8 states in the third paragraph: "The tasks referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may be delegated to other persons with adequate education and practical experience, who are qualified to carry them out." I wonder what that actually means?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you can answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u140	The responsible person identified in this Act shall be responsible for the organisation of this activity and shall also be responsible for the very course of this activity at the time of the replacement of the other persons envisaged in the network.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u141	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 33rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 33. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE AVENTIC EXAMPLE OF THE WORD 33. It's a member of the garden law. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted to the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. Since the representative of the state council is on his way, let's wait a moment. Here, you have the floor for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. Well-welcome President-in-Office and everyone else! In accordance with the Regulation published in the Official Journal in December, the Council of State adopted a decision of an authentic interpretation, which somehow stems from the basic idea of trying to solve the problem, since, in Article 4 and 4a of this Regulation, in fact, parents engaged in independent activities, so-called craftsmen and, in particular, farmers, in determining their income, that they had come under very great pressure, particularly financially, because, knowingly or unwittingly, they had been brought into an impossible position by such or other entities to pay this contribution to kindergarten. In June 33, Article 33 of the Kindergarten Act allows the Minister to present his proposals for income, but never, we say in the State Council, has the employer in mind that the Minister for this rule may not have such non-life solutions as are here, because income, in particular the income of a craftsman, is not one that could be bound to determine income. In accordance with Article 209(1), it is known exactly how it is to be determined. In fact, it is even worse when it comes to determining cadastral income, because it is very clear that cadastral income must be divided into all members of the family, and in this way it comes to what you also have written in the material that 100,000 catastrian income actually means for a tri-member family that they no longer have income of 7 000 500 per month, but if we know that families are larger, then it is even worse. The main theme that led us to try to solve this problem with an authentic explanation, which is easier, more elegant, faster, than the amendment of the legislation, is that nowhere and in no way can the farm be a liability even less than the company, but it can only be a parent and no one else. For this reason, we propose that paragraph 33 be understood in this context. Article 33 of the Law on Kindergartens is understood to mean that the Minister responsible for pre-school education, the scale, the remuneration counted as income per family member and the property taken into account for determining the payment, the manner in which they are determined and the manner and procedure in which the reduced payment is applied shall be determined in accordance with the rules governing the determination of the remuneration counted as income per family member. I would ask you to listen to this as a well-intentioned act to solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u143	Thank you, Mr Maucec, for further explanation of the proposal. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was also addressed by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as the parent working body. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, mag. Branku Grims for presentation of the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. The report will be very brief. Both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Legal Service of the National Assembly have warned us in their written papers on this proposal that such a proposal for a compulsory interpretation is substantially above what is legally permissible in the framework of the mandatory interpretation of the law and that such a solution would require a change of law, i.e. a completely different legal procedure, and that the path taken by the State Council from this point of view is therefore wrong. On this basis, the Committee adopted, at its 13th regular session, a decision not to support the proposal for a mandatory interpretation of the law in that text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u145	Thank you. I give the floor to Dr. Milan Zver, Minister for Education and Sport as a representative of the Government for the introductory explanation of the opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal for authentic interpretation. The reasons for this are as follows. The first is of a formal legal nature, since the proposal is designed not to be an authentic interpretation, but rather to amend or supplement Article 33 of the kindergarten law. Moreover, we do not see some of the substantive reasons for amending Article 33 of the Law on Kindergarten, but especially not for a specific explanation, since this article is quite clear. The Article provides the statutory authority for the Minister to prescribe, by means of a regulation, a scale of remuneration to be included in the income and property and the manner in which they are determined, as well as a procedure for applying reduced remuneration for kindergartens. It also allows the Minister, according to the specific area, to determine the income and property of the family which are taken into account in the payment of the kindergarten. In this he is bound - and does so with the Regulation - only to the opinion of representative associations of local communities, and these are two. Both recent amendments to the Regulation were made in agreement with both representative associations. According to the response of the parents carrying out the agricultural activity, the Regulation was amended in part to establish higher cadastral income values. Here we have taken account of this part of the population which did not agree with the rules of the Regulation. But now we are also negotiating with craftsmen, where we are also looking for agreement on possible changes to the rules. But certainly there are no substantive or formal reasons for such an explanation as we have before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u147	Thank you, Minister. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u148	Thanks again for saying that. In Novi Slovenije we will not support the authentic interpretation of the text of Article 33 of the Law on kindergartens. Why? Authenticity is the content of an article which interferes with the content of the article it interprets. The Article of the Law is clear and we do not feel the need to adopt or amend Article 33. The proposer of the authentic interpretation shall be admitted to the rules on the payment of kindergartens adopted by the Ministry of Education and Sport on a proposal from the municipalities, which is not subject to authentic interpretation. Therefore, the purpose of the authentic interpretation must not be to prejudge a particular question. In the New Slovenia Group, we will reject the proposal to accept an authentic explanation. However, since it is clear to us what has led to this debate, let me say that we do not agree with the parents' rules on paying for kindergarten programmes, not with the one adopted in December, but with the one that was corrected this April. Why? Let me just give you an example for farmers. For those farmers or parents who have a cadastral income, this is taken into account twice in the collection of income, namely, for the first time in the common income fund and KD is multiplied by a correction factor - I think this is 2.7 - and for the second time on the basis of KD is re-defined as payment classes. The main issue is that the number of family members is not taken into account. We believe that the ministry has succeeded the municipalities, and they are now pointing to you, the reason should be not to show actual income or property, but we think that there are other methods and that we should not therefore throw all farmers and entrepreneurs in the same basket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc, will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the proposal for a mandatory interpretation in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we see an attempt by the proposer to point out, however, that this article is inconsistent with other legislation and that the purpose of the legislator in the drafting of Article 33 of the Law on kindergartens was by no means determined that the method of determining income for farmers and independent entrepreneurs was not determined by the Ministry of Education, irrespective of other regulations. The rules on parental payments for kindergarten programs provide for a different definition for those who earn income for their families, and this income should also be divided into family members. However, a controversial amendment to the Regulation, which in fact led to the proposed mandatory interpretation, has determined that income should be taken into account without dividing into family members. These parents, too, are subject to the rules on income determination or should already determine the way and contributions to the State on the basis of these incomes. Individual entrepreneurs and farmers should also be subject to the Income Act, as for other parents, and also to the rules governing the social and pension insurance of farmers and independent entrepreneurs, where the basis for the payment of contributions is laid down. Thus, the amount of personal income, not only the income of companies as such, is also somehow determined, from which a contribution as a social benefit can also be calculated for the payment of kindergartens. It must be based on the fact that he is liable to pay his parents or family and not to a company or farm. The same opinion and disagreement with the Rules of Procedure were given by both the Chamber of Agriculture and the Chamber of Commerce. The non-systemic and contrary to the principle of equality is to leave the decision on the level of the contribution and the determination of the income of the family of the local community, that is, even the subjective judgement of the mayor, which puts parents in an unequal position. The Kindergarten Act stipulates clearly and explicitly in Article 3 that preschool education is an integral part of the system of education and education, which is carried out in accordance with the principle of equal opportunities for children and parents. According to the legal system of education and education in our kindergarten country, they are and should be within the jurisdiction of the country, as is the case with primary schools, for which municipalities can only provide material conditions for operation, all other powers are in the hands of the state. In order to generate income for the family, a single entrepreneur or a farmer needs his own fixed assets and costs, which may mean that he does not even make a profit at some point or even that he has virtually no income left, although in any case he has to pay all the obligations and contributions to the State as if he were to pay his salary. The attempt to correct the error by adopting the most recent amendments to the rules relating only to the manner in which the farmer's cadastral income is taken into account further shows that the Ministry has interpreted the provisions of Article 33 of the kindergarten law in its own way and that the amount of income is determined arbitrarily and not on the basis of certain criteria or regulations. In addition, the opinion of the Legal Service states that kindergartens are within the jurisdiction of the municipalities and that they have been taken into account in the drafting of amendments to the Regulation. On the contrary, it is not taken into account who is responsible for determining the method of determining the income of undertakings. By our legislation, these are certainly neither congregations nor the Ministry of Education. Family is our greatest value, and at the same time it is a very sensitive community that the country should protect and help. At the same time, the State has the leverage and the law enforcement authorities of those who report income unfairly, and the State cannot and cannot demand it from the local community or the mayor. In this mandatory interpretation, the parliamentary group also reminds the legislator that when adopting laws, it is more specific to define the criteria for determining the rights and obligations of citizens and does not impose this on the executive branch of the authority or even the local community. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will respect the opinion of the legislative and legal service, which says that the text presented is not appropriate for an authentic interpretation, but its content constitutes such an intervention in a legislative text that can only be supplemented by legislative provisions. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will not support this proposal for an authentic explanation, but we have tried and wanted to point out with the above that there is still a need to consider something about Article 33 or the harmonisation of Article 33 of the Law on kindergartens with the rest of the legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Vasj Klavor, who will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u152	Mr President, honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! In our parliamentary group, we are aware that parents are forced to look for different forms of protection for their children. Public and private kindergartens are set up to help parents take full care of their children, and they also contribute to improving the quality of life of families and children, and to creating conditions for the development of children's physical and mental abilities. Of course, it is necessary to pay for the costs of such organised protection, and the level of payment of parents for kindergartens is determined by the State together with the municipalities that also finance kindergartens. Under Article 33 of the Law on Kindergartens, it is the responsibility of the Minister of Education and Sport to lay down the rules on the scale, the remuneration to be included in the income of the family member and the property to be taken into account for the determination of the payment. The Ministry is also competent to determine how they are identified and the method and procedure for applying reduced payments. In the light of such a legal mandate, the Ministry adopted an amendment to the rules on parental payments for kindergarten programmes in April this year, which have excited farmers and entrepreneurs in particular, since they considered that the regulation does not properly assess their income. The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia has tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 33 of the Law on kindergartens, namely that the scale of remuneration and property underlying the determination of the payment of the nursery shall be determined in accordance with the rules governing the determination of the remuneration to be added to the income of the family member. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposed authentic interpretation extends the conditions originally incorporated into the law itself and thus interferes with the concept of the law itself as a whole, since the proposed text is not designed as an interpretation, but rather as a complement to the provisions of the current law. Such interference in the legal text is allowed only by supplementing or amending the law in the legislative procedure. Given that the proposal for an authentic interpretation does not correspond to the purpose of the legal institution itself and that a possible confirmation would legally constitute a substitute for the legislative procedure, and thus, contrary to the rule of law and legal certainty, we will not support Members of our DeSUS Group of the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 33 of the kindergarten law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u154	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Representative of the Council of State, all present. The proposal of the State Council for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 33 of the Law on Kindergarten formally contains all the essential elements to be contained under Article 149(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. However, in explaining the proposal, it was found that it was contrary to the objective of an authentic interpretation. It is only necessary if the provision itself is unclear. The proposal for an interpretation interferes with the content of the provision and constitutes a change of law for the purpose of the legal nature of the Institute. It provides that the Minister responsible for pre-school education, the scale, the remuneration to be included in the income of the family member and the assets to be taken into account for the determination of the payment, the manner in which they are determined and the manner and procedure in which the reduced payment is applied shall be determined in accordance with the rules governing the determination of the remuneration to be added to the income of the family member. The content of the institute of authentic interpretation is that the content of the legal provision which it has previously adopted, within the framework of its original meaning, is legally defined, so that it is in practice clear what this requires. Such interpretation of the law has legal effects to the contrary from the enforcement of the law and it is also inappropriate to propose an authentic interpretation on the basis of an official consolidated text. The authentic interpretation cannot be intended to amend or supplement the law, but can only refer to the interpretation of the legal provisions which have proved unclear in practice in the context of the content in question. Compared to the present text of the authentic interpretation with the text of the kindergarten law, it can be concluded that the text submitted is not formulated as an explanation. Its content is to supplement the provisions of the current law. The applicant points out that for entrepreneurs and farmers, the criminal regime established by the amendment of the Rules of Procedure is therefore seeking to legislate a solution which, in their opinion, would specify the act on which the Minister is to be bound when issuing the implementing regulation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that there are no substantive reasons for interpreting Article 33 of the Law on kindergartens, because the provision itself cannot be ruled out by ambiguity. The provision of Article 33 of the Law on Kindergartens is, in our opinion, clear and constitutes the statutory authority for the Minister to prescribe a scale, remuneration to be included in the income of a family member and property to be taken into account for the determination of the payment, the manner in which they are determined, and the manner and procedure for the application of the reduced payment. In doing so, the Minister shall autonomously determine the income and property of the family to be taken into account in determining the payment for kindergarten. This provision should also be linked to Articles 32 and 32a, which provide the basis for determining payments, income and all assets, except those exempted by law. On the basis of this, in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we will support the decision of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the text of Article 33 of the Law on kindergartens is not adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u155	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation. Mr. Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u156	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr Minister with co-worker, distinguished Mr Maucec, representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! Like my colleague Prevc, who represented the position of the Slovenian People's Party, I will not support the mandatory interpretation of Article 33 of the Law on kindergartens, but I would allow myself a little comment or discussion. More than a year ago, on behalf of the Group of Members, I submitted a written question to the Ministry of Education to answer what was happening or what had happened to the new regulation, which so enormously increased the contributions or shares of parents to cover part of the cost of care in kindergartens for entrepreneurs or farmers, owners of agricultural land and forests. Approximately as Mr Minister replied today, I received about the same written reply from the Ministry that this is consistent with both communities of municipalities, that it is the responsibility of the mayors to decide otherwise, as set out in the Rules, in view of the social situation of both the owners of agricultural land and forests and entrepreneurs. Thus, once this contribution has been increased to the account of the cadastral income, or the second time the contribution of parents to entrepreneurs has increased. That perhaps this is the position of representatives of the two associations, Mr Minister, I believe you, because some of the municipalities have gotten rid of this, maybe five or ten, I do not know how many million fewer contributions they pay for the costs of kindergartens per month. Maybe that's the position. I think that colleagues and colleagues know the structure of the price, the municipal council determines the cost of kindergarten, from that price about 28 to 35% are paid by parents and the difference is paid by local communities. I hope, Mr Minister, that you have already corrected one part of this regulation, that both our letter to you, on behalf of the Group of Members a year ago, and the question that you have received before the meeting of the National Assembly, and not least this initiative for an authentic explanation, I personally believe that we cannot change the contents of the law with an authentic explanation, encourage you to consider with professional services, and that you will in fact decide and leave this subjective assessment of mayors who will say, if you do, that one has such cadastral income and no one has to cut in the forest, and no one has to grow the field, and we will lower it. But those who plow the field, because they go into the forest, and he has something more, and in a little better car he drives, we're gonna lift that ladder to pay for kindergartens. And it is similar that you would not repeat what your colleagues compared, and I think that even when you were asked the question here in the National Assembly, when they said that one entrepreneur could eventually have zero, given that there was a talk about income. I hope to say that 80% of those beautiful cars don't own the ones that drive them, but they're different leasing companies and so on. I think that's what we were talking about. I was an eight-year-old mayor myself, and I used to say, "How can he not pay?" When my income decisions were made, sometimes it was just a decision on income basis to set up payment classes for my parents and eventually a person would figure out what it was. And once again, Mr Minister, I call on you to study the matter with the professional services and not to leave the subjective assessment in fact, but to try to arrange the rules for everyone who generates income to find this income in the right way. And this established income should properly be the basis for paying the share of the contribution to cover the costs of educational institutions or kindergartens in the local community.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr Ljublješek has the floor. He's quitting. Mrs. Uhanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u158	Thank you. One more word. As we say, we will not support an authentic explanation. But we don't agree with the rules. True, this other rule softened the situation, but why? [[...]] Because we have complained and because we do not agree as much in New Slovenia, if I have to say so. We do not agree, for even if this is milder and still classified by cadastral income, but we do not agree, Minister, that you do not take into account the number of family members and that you do not care whether the family has three members or ten or has one child or has six. In particular, a family with six children came to me, and only a cadastral income of about 500,000. And it was classified in the eighth grade, in the highest pay grade, and two preschool kids, and four schoolchildren. And you can't throw everything in the same basket. It is therefore appropriate to correct this Regulation at least on this segment, if it is already decreasing or on the basis of revenue, a payment class is to be determined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u159	Thank you. Would you like a minister? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. This story's got a long beard. The fact is that we wanted to make these relations a little bit more fair between the social categories that pay for this service, namely kindergarten, but only with this rule we will not solve the situation. The fact is that our service, the service of the country or kindergarten in this area is too expensive. It is difficult to collect all resources to cover both municipal, state and public resources as well as from parents. And the fact is that since 1996, as many as ten years ago, the share of parents in the total price has dropped, from more than one third to 18%, which means that parents were more burdened by 50% than they are today. This means that public funds in this area are still strained. In addition, the price of services is not low, it is quite high. I hope that this dilemma will soon become superfluous for at least two reasons. The first is because the country will solve social transfers in a single way and we will have a very clear picture of who gets what. Then it will be easier to calculate or determine the material position of an individual. It is necessary to know that not only income is defined by the socio-economic position of an individual, but the whole material situation, including material situation, property and other factors. Even the Constitutional Court has repeatedly stressed in its case-law that the whole picture, the whole situation of the measurement of the payment, which is not by the State but by the local community, must be taken into account, and that is true. It is also appropriate that the local community in this article has this possibility of correcting the amount for some who do have such a number of children. This valve must be, and it is right that at local level can better detect the ability of individual families to pay for kindergarten. I think that over time - when the tax situation is cleaner, when social transfers are better known, when the picture is clearer - "these injustices", under terms, is significantly less. I understand this position in part, and I also understand in part the craftsmen who say that they are considered to be one of the factors or indicators of their material or material position. There is also an argument when they say they can have 300 million traffic and of that, 298 million costs. This is also possible, which means that income is relatively low. However, you need to understand that the picture or situation here is not as neat as it is trying to present itself today as it is with this initiative of the State Council, and it is absolutely right that it has been given, in particular with a view to discussing it. With this novelty, for example, the total payment for kindergartens increased by only 0.7%. However, at least 10% should be required for the average payment of this social layer in the total cost of services to be made to the second, higher class, which means negligible little. But still, we're willing to negotiate with them and talk. There is no significant difference in farmers either. Of all the 54,000 involved in kindergartens, very few complaints or even extracts of preschool children have occurred. There's something I'd like to point out. We want the involvement of preschool children to be as high as possible. With us, this is about 60%, and at European level this percentage is significantly higher. And we need to somehow achieve this European level, in particular in that period from 3 to 6, which is crucial to the socialisation process and the inclusion of an individual to gain certain values [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] But that will only be achieved if we lower the cost of the service. That's why we have a lot of work to do in the future. Once again, this part depends not only on our ministry, but also on others. [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u161	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. A representative of the Council of State, Mr Maucec, also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. In view of this debate I have heard, I must say that the objective of the authentic interpretation has been successful. For we claim that, on the basis of misunderstandings or irregular segmentation of this article, such a rule has occurred. And that was our purpose. Finally, given that you know the problem, then this authentic explanation is the elegant solution that says nothing else that the Minister can do it differently than according to the regulations. And if this is such an intervention in law, then I must say I disagree. No matter how much legal work has done, we understand that, but we all know how you come to such conclusions. Since I'm speaking, I've got a little extra, and I've never taken advantage of my time before, I'd like to invite everyone who's in this room, with the minister in charge, to come live on a 10-hectare farm in Prekmurje. Let him live there with his family, spend 5 years without using his own resources, which either of you have or have not had, and let him keep his family so that his wife or children, especially if they are kindergarten children, do not leave. I'll give him my farm for a tolar rent. And then you'll see what it's like to pay for kindergarten or 80,000 because such a farm has such a cadastral income. Just so we're clear, I don't have a problem with that because I live on other things. I will not explain the comparison of craftsmanship, because I think the Minister has taken very well that the revenue of 1 billion, in the end it may be more expensive, and businesses are going to lose, but it is not a topic. I think that life is crucial in rural rural areas and concern, thank God, I see that this Parliament and this government have a family, that this is something that is the future, but we also have to support it then in life. It can be hard for someone to understand in the countryside that the problem is one comma, a dot, or an intervention. In good faith, however unlikely to convince you, the aim of this is to achieve, I am sure that the Minister will understand the initiative as well-intentioned and try to change. However, there is probably no secret that the matter is already before the Constitutional Court, and this will probably have to change. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u163	Thank you, Mr. Mauchec. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation is not accepted, we will decide today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, at 4:10 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 4:10 p.m. Since I made a mistake for 10 minutes, we'll continue the meeting at 4:20 p.m. I'm sorry. Bad math.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u164	Dear Members and honourable Members! We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda - consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, the reduced procedure. All we have left is a vote on the law. We're voting. 42 Members and Members are present. I take it we're inconclusive. I would like to point out that it cannot be obstructed because it has not been announced in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So I'm asking you to understand that. We are moving on to another vote. We're voting. 43 Members and Members are present. I'm guessing we're back to being inconclusive. I'm adjourning the session and this point. We'll continue at 4:35.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-05-31-SDZ4-Redna-17.ana.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please take your seats. We are moving on to the third attempt to vote on the law as a whole. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on police. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on police is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 13. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 13.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 29th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Social Protection Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Protection Act, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 56 votes against 7. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 30th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law on vocational and professional education. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal: The proposal for a law on vocational and professional education, first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 5. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home labour body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 31st item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a blood supply law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a blood supply law, the first consideration, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 62 for them, against no one. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 33rd item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of the text of Article 33 of the kindergarten law. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads as follows: The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the text of Article 33 of the kindergarten law shall not be adopted. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 57 votes against 6. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 34. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT IS ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF UZBECISTAN ON THE INTERNATIONAL ROAD TRANSPORT OF PASSENGERS AND GOODS. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 63 for them, against no one. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 35. At the end of the day - this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on the mutual protection of classified information between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 64 for them, against no one. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 36. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT IS ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT ON CONCERNING, PROVIDING AND USE OF SATELICAL Navigation SYSTEMS, GALILEO AND GPS AND LIKE APPLICATIONS. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 37. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on development cooperation. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 38. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - CONFIRMATION OF THE WORKING TEXTS OF THE LEGISLATION. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The official text of the war veterans law is confirmed. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 3. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the text of that Act has been formally revised. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The officially consolidated text of the Home Register Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the Health Inspection Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The official text of the Income Act shall be confirmed. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 3. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The correction of the officially consolidated text of the Tax Procedure Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 39. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. In the context of this item, the assembly will consider the proposal of the Judicial Council for an election in a judicial capacity and the proposal for a decision appointing the President of the State Audit Commission. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal on the election to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented a proposal for a decision to the assembly. There are no applications for a hearing, so we are moving on to a decision on the motion for decisions on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Barbara Fajdig to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. The 62 present is a Member of Parliament and Members, with 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a proposal for a decision on the appointment of the President of the State Audit Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by a mandate-holder commission, Ms Vesno Cukrov being appointed President of the State Audit Commission, which will be held from 1.7.2006 to 23.12.2009. I give the floor to Alojz Sok to present the position of the New Slovenia Group. [[He's quitting.]] There are no other panellists. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mrs Vesna Sugar as President of the State Audit Commission, which will take effect from 1.7.2006 to 23.12.2009. We're voting. 61 present is a Member of Parliament and Members, 54 votes against 2. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 17th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Keep having a good day.
