ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and Members! We'll start the meeting, regardless of the deciduous participation. We continue with the 18th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members: Bogdan Barovic, mag. Milan M. Squeakle, mag. Branko Grims, Aleš Gulič from 3 p.m., Miran Jerič, Aurelio Juri, Dušan Kumer from 2 p.m. and Willi Rezman. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed bill on the international development cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia. We have 50 minutes to discuss. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I invite the Secretary of State, Dr. Bož Cerar, to further explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u2	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! Providing international development assistance is an obligation arising from the classification of Slovenia as one of the most economically developed countries in the world. This obligation is based on the principle of solidarity and responsibility for more balanced global development and on commitments made within the framework of the UN and the EU. At last June's European Council, Slovenia pledged to allocate at least 0.17% of the social gross product by 2010 for official development assistance. Last year, Slovenia earmarked EUR 0,11 million and EUR 26 million for official development assistance. More than half of this amount is a contribution to the EU budget for the EU's joint development assistance programmes. The second part of development aid was allocated on the one hand to bilateral programmes, of which more than 20% were to the Western Balkan countries, and on the other hand to membership, voluntary contributions and humanitarian assistance through various international multilateral mechanisms. The bulk of bilateral aid to the countries of the Western Balkans was technical training and assistance in the construction of institutions. These were implemented by the International Mine Action Fund, the Centre for the Development of Finance, the Institute Together, and this year by the implementation of the programmes of the launch of the Centre for the European Future. Slovenia has also concluded bilateral development cooperation agreements with Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, the former Serbia and Montenegro. In order to regulate the area of international development cooperation in a European comparable way, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has drawn up a proposal for a law that you are deciding today. The draft law, taking into account the development objectives of the Republic of Slovenia, systematically regulates the area of development cooperation by setting objectives, policies, priorities and coordination. Article 3 of the bill therefore includes, among the main objectives of Slovenian development cooperation, combating poverty, ensuring peace and human security, combating HIV, AIDS, ensuring sustainable development, basic social services and good governance. In addition to other objectives, it also sets specific objectives of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of international development cooperation. Article 4 further sets out the content and method of adoption of the resolution on the basis of which development cooperation will be planned and implemented. The resolution will be adopted by the State Assembly on a proposal from the Government. Through the section 6 of the draft law, all relevant Slovenian potentials will be included in the preparation of the resolution as a basic strategic implementation document in this area, in addition to the government, the non-governmental sector, the economic sector and the academic sphere. Particular attention shall be paid in Article 7 to the funding segment and in Articles 8, 10 and 11 to the implementation segment of international development cooperation. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will, with public authority, transfer the technical and operational part of the implementation of international development cooperation, either in whole or in part, to other qualified legal persons of public or private law. However, the technical and operational part of international development cooperation will also be able to carry out ministries that will carry out individual programmes. The success segment of the resolution and the objectives adopted are covered by the law in Article 15, which provides that the assessment of the effectiveness of the resolution will be addressed by the National Assembly, i.e. you. Dear Members and Members! The proposal provides, inter alia, full support for economic cooperation with priority recipient countries in those substantive and sectoral areas to be laid down in the implementing acts of the law, in particular in the resolution on international development cooperation. The implementation of the law will also be more effective in achieving the objectives and priorities set at a time when Slovenia will preside over the European Union. Let me finish. With the implementation of the law, Slovenia will link the international development aid instrument with its strategic foreign and economic interests and implement the above-mentioned commitment made at the European Council meeting last June. With the implementation of this law as a responsible member of the international community and a donor country, Slovenia will also make it easier to implement the other commitments made under the UN. I propose, honourable Members and Members, that you vote in favour of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Jerovska, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, colleagues and colleagues! At its 17th session, the Committee on Foreign Policy prepared a law on the international development cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia for second reading. In its consideration of the draft law, the Committee took note of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and made comments to Articles 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15 and 16. In the introduction, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, presented on behalf of the proposer the creation of a bill on international development cooperation. He said that this was closely linked to the full membership of Slovenia in the European Union and to the classification of Slovenia as a donor country. In this way, Slovenia has also adopted internationally established standards in the area of the granting of official development assistance provided by the OECD Development Assistance Committee. In order for Slovenia to be able to play its role more effectively and more quickly as a donor country, development aid and related commitments, both within the United Nations and within the European Union, and to link the international development aid instrument more effectively with its strategic foreign and economic interests, a clear need for the international development cooperation system to be regulated by a specific law emerged at the end of 2004. In 2005 the consideration and coordination of the draft law on international development cooperation began, which, in addition to the content-system solutions, also defined an appropriate organisational institutional scheme. The bill therefore takes more effectively into account the development objectives of Slovenia, while ensuring that the implementation of the law strengthens support for economic cooperation with priority countries recipients of development assistance in those substantive and sectoral areas that will be set out in the implementing acts of the law, in particular in the resolution on international development cooperation. The adoption of the law will allow for a more effective link between international development cooperation and foreign policy as well as economic interests. Representatives of the Slovenian export company, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia also expressed support for the adoption of the law. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, amendments to the proposed law were tabled by the coalition group SDS, Nova Slovenija and the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS, as well as by Ambassador Franz Ferri Horvat. The government supported the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and the amendments of Ambassador Feri Horvat to Article 5 of the bill, but did not support his amendments to Article 14 of the bill, which was therefore withdrawn by Ambassador Franz Feri Horvat. The Committee also adopted two amendments to the Committee. All the amendments adopted were included in the amended law, which is an integral part of this report. After the discussion and the vote on the amendments, the members of the committee voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them and, of course, we also propose that the National Assembly approve this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first one has the word Mr Horvat in the name of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with fellow Members, honourable Members, honourable Members! International development cooperation plays an important role in ensuring a better life for millions of people around the world. The contribution to poverty reduction helps to build a key infrastructure, improve health education standards and support responsible governance, the development of democracy, and ensure international peace and security. Despite the considerable progress made in recent years, there are still many tasks ahead of us to achieve a lasting reduction in poverty worldwide and to establish a more stable international community. The activities of Slovenia in the field of international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance follow the pace of the growth of its international visibility and responsibility. These activities reflect the values of Slovenian citizens and citizens who have generously supported calls for humanitarian assistance so that people affected by natural disasters or armed conflicts can survive and relive their lives. Effective external and security policy must include an element of targeted international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance. The development programme of Slovenia is based on the assumption of partnership with the countries we are working with, in particular those from the Western Balkans. We also contribute to global development cooperation and humanitarian action through our activities in the EU and in the United Nations system. International development cooperation is based on bilateral programmes, projects and programmes and projects of multilateral organisations. Development is a process where, through systematic and precisely defined measures, we solve social problems and measure the success of these interventions with the effect it has on the problem we are solving. In order for Slovenia to be able to fulfil its role more effectively and more quickly as a donor country and its related commitments both within the United Nations and within the EU, and also in order for the instrument of international development assistance to be more effectively linked to its strategic foreign and economic interests, it is reasonable and necessary for the system of international development cooperation to be regulated by a specific law. Two years ago, the Republic of Slovenia also officially joined the economically most developed countries. This transition has brought the Republic of Slovenia into the circle of the most developed countries, which, in line with the commitments made within the United Nations with the provision of international development assistance, assume their share of the responsibility to reduce the differences between developed and underdeveloped and more coherent development in the world. Although the Republic of Slovenia has been granting official development assistance to countries which, following the OECD, have designated beneficiaries for this aid for a number of years. Most of the aid is in line with the prevailing Slovenian foreign policy interests in the Western Balkans, which are beneficiaries of development aid. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proposed law on international development cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia will regulate the area in the Republic of Slovenia in a qualitative and systematic manner and allow the Republic of Slovenia to fulfil its international obligations in the field of international development assistance in an appropriate and effective manner. At last year's visit by Slovenian Members to the Canadian International Development Agency, we found and saw how very useful it could be for Slovenia to actively participate in the system of international development cooperation, especially in projects of multilateral organisations. For this reason, in the New Slovenia Group, we believe that Slovenia should urgently strengthen its potential in this area, as in us many development organisations and countries see the bridge mainly in the Western Balkans. It is also important to stress that the Republic of Slovenia law will be able to reach an obligation by 2010 to increase official development aid resources from the current 0.1% of gross social product to at least 0.17% of gross social product. In the New Slovenia Group, as has already been said, we welcome the proposed legal solutions for the area of international development cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia and we will also support the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Brenčič has the following word on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. I say hello to everyone. In these 15 years, the Republic of Slovenia has successfully concluded the first phase of its country's creation, established all the country's attributes, entered the strongest alliance, the North Atlantic alliance, we are a member of the European Union of Democratic States and we are just before the introduction of the euro or the entry into the monetary union. We could say that the changes in the international situation of Slovenia are important. At the moment, Slovenia must also set and set new guidelines, short-term, medium-term and long-term and, in this regard, also clear objectives of Slovenian foreign policy in order to achieve the greatest possible effectiveness of Slovenian cooperation at the international level and be able to successfully exercise its interests and, lastly, to increase its visibility or non-recognition in the world. We are aware that the country must also ensure freedom, peace and security for its citizens through an appropriate foreign and security policy. These tasks include measures and incentives governed by the proposed law. As a democratic, free and relatively well-developed country, Slovenia, as a democratic, free and relatively well-developed country, can and must, through its cooperation, create conditions in a narrow and wider international space for respect for human rights throughout the world, the development of democracy and the rule of law, assist and cooperate with regard to measures for sustainable development and to overcome social tensions, eliminate religious and ethnic conflicts, prevent environmental disasters and actively engage in the fight against international terrorism. By implementing this proposal, the Republic of Slovenia will move to donor countries and thus adopt internationally established standards in the area of the granting of official development assistance provided by the OECD Development Assistance Committee. On the basis of these facts, we believe that the government and the foreign ministry have rightly decided to propose a legal regime for the international development cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we consider it important that the complementary draft law takes into account the development objectives of Slovenia and at the same time ensures that the implementation of the law strengthens support for economic cooperation with priority countries recipients of development assistance from those substantive and sectoral areas that will be set out in the implementing acts of the law or in particular in the resolution on international development cooperation. We support the purpose of the government, which believes that Slovenia will be able to fulfil its internationally accepted obligations by adopting and implementing the law while at the same time allowing for a more effective link between international development cooperation and non-political and economic interests of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I'm inviting the next mag. Gdydarsič to present DeSUS's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u10	Dear President! Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared the first draft of the law on international development cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia in the past year, and we now have an improved version of the bill that takes account of Slovenia's economic and financial priorities. This law provides for the fulfilment of our country's obligations in the field of international development and humanitarian aid, in accordance with the guidelines established by the OECD Development Assistance Committee. Given that Slovenia is one of the more developed countries, it is clear in this context that it will contribute to reducing poverty and reducing differences in the development of the world. The bill also has the support of the State Council, the Chamber of Commerce and the Slovenian Export Society. Since the adoption of this law will in a transparent and effective manner ensure the fulfilment of the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of international development assistance and humanitarian cooperation, our Group will be pleased to support it in a uniform manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the following word on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u12	Again, thank you very much. Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the deeper importance of international development assistance. This is not only a humanitarian component, but the development assistance of developed countries points to their level of responsibility for the global problems of the world. For many years Slovenia has been granting official development assistance to countries which, according to the definitions of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, have benefited from this aid. Slovenia has thus focused most of the aid on the Western Balkan countries in line with its foreign policy priorities. Thus, international agreements on development cooperation with Bosnia and Herzegovina have been concluded with a view to coordination in both the substantive and financial fields and thus the former Serbia-Montenegro, Macedonia and Moldova, and agreements with Albania and Ukraine are being drawn up. Bilateral agreements provide a framework for cooperation and identify priority areas in which Slovenia will provide development assistance to these countries and enable Slovenian economic, non-governmental and academic operators to be more involved in activities and projects. The law before us today is intended to systematically regulate the definition of the objectives, the way in which the international development cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia is planned, financed and implemented. It will enable Slovenia to meet its international obligations in the area of international development assistance in an appropriate and effective manner. The law should also allow Slovenia to achieve the obligation to allocate funds of 0.17% of gross domestic product for official development assistance by 2010. Slovenia now allocates 0.1% of its gross domestic product under the OECD Official Development Assistance Committee criteria. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, such an increase, which is in line with the guidelines of the European Union, we support, as we are aware that at the same time the reputation and visibility of the country are being strengthened and that we are approaching countries that are known as countries that have an understanding of the development problems of the developing countries. Such countries are mainly Scandinavian countries and the Netherlands in Europe, and I must say that the Netherlands is also very interested in working with Slovenia in this area. The means for implementing the law are already provided in the first phase of 2006 through the funds already allocated by the Republic of Slovenia for international development and humanitarian assistance. The additional resources to be allocated through the implementation of the law in order to achieve the obligation arising from full membership in the European Union or the adopted objective, i.e. 0.17% of gross domestic product, will be decided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that it is right that the law has been put through a long path of complementarity and coordination by all stakeholders, since the government has first approved the bill following intensive inter-departmental coordination in October 2005, but has withdrawn it, due to the need for further harmonisation, particularly in terms of integration with the economic, development and financial priorities of the Republic of Slovenia, and replaced it with a new proposal in April 2006. Thus, the law before us today takes into account the development objectives of Slovenia even more effectively, while ensuring that economic cooperation with the recipient countries is strengthened through the implementation of the law. The law establishes a regulatory framework for the preparation of a motion for a resolution of international development cooperation, which is the main strategic implementation document in this area, while also providing for the inclusion of the executive and legislative branch of government in the process of setting political priorities and ensuring long-term resources. Once again, I would like to stress that the adoption of the law will allow for a more effective link in the field of international development cooperation with foreign and economic interests, which is also evidenced by the fact that representatives of the Slovenian Export Company, the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce and other entities have also expressed their support for the adoption of the law in the debate on the home committee. For all of this, we will, of course, support the solutions foreseen by the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u13	Thank you very much. And the last one has the word, Mr Horvat, on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with co-workers and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Members and Members of the Social Democrats Group support the draft law, which means a system of international development cooperation. This activity is important because of political, humanitarian, economic and other interests, as well as because of international commitments undertaken, both within the European Union, the UN and other international, including parliamentary international organisations. Although Slovenia is, as we have heard and read, at the level of 0.11% of the gross domestic product at the summit between EU news, which gives some half of the gross domestic product, we are still lagging behind the average of the European Union and, in particular, we are lagging behind the leading countries in the European Union and also in the world in the field of international development cooperation. Let me just mention the fact that some countries, such as Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands and some others, including Canada, mentioned earlier by a fellow so-Namer Horvat, already give 0.7% to 0.9% of gross domestic product for this purpose. Slovenia needs long-term planning, efficient organisation and greater resources for this purpose over the coming years. For the first time, I think that before the Presidency of the European Union, that is to say next year, I would like to mention the case of Austria, which, just before the Presidency, doubled its funds for this purpose and also plays an important role during the Presidency in this area. I myself have had the opportunity to participate in some parliamentary meetings on this subject. Secondly, the commitment already mentioned, 0.17% of gross domestic product by 2010 and 0.33% of gross domestic product by 2015, which represents the EU average from last year; I believe that our objective should be more ambitious given that we are already in front of other countries and given the interests that others have already expressed here before me. By providing, where possible, a higher share of gross domestic product for this purpose in 2010 and in the coming years. Increasing Slovenia's resources and increased activity in this area means strengthening its credibility, both in the European Union and in the world. It makes it possible to strengthen its political and economic role in individual parts of the world. Finally, but not least, it is also that this means direct economic interest and opens up opportunities and opportunities for international development cooperation, in addition to other aspects of opening doors to individual markets and in particular creating demand and creating new markets. We are pleased to note that, with the support of the Government, our amendment to Article 5 has been adopted, which specifies more precisely the organisation of international development cooperation, and that a proposal for an amendment of the Committee to Article 15, which provides for reporting to the National Assembly, has also been adopted. This strengthens Parliament's role in international development cooperation, in the national interest and also in line with the efforts of the EU and the international community in general. Each president, to mention only by the way, also organises a parliamentary meeting on this subject. The fact is that Parliaments are mainly involved in planning, as the budget is finally setting up funds for this purpose and for supervision. Let me finish. It is very important that the consistent implementation of this law, in particular good organisation from the national coordinator of the IHR through the departments and other organisations, will be carried out. It will be very important to ensure that operational implementation is carried out as soon as possible by a specialised organisation, only by an agency, as is the case in most or almost all European Union countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Friday 23 June 2006 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I warmly welcome and thank the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal for a law on amendments to the Employment and Security Act for example of unemployment. We have five hours and 45 minutes to discuss. I also welcome Minister Drobnič among us. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly and I also give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Mag. A trifle to give an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament. The proposed law is among the first to enforce reforms in the labour market. The aim of these changes is in particular to make the labour market more flexible and to make more jobs possible. The law brings better legal solutions that will contribute to a more efficient work of the Employment Service, faster implementation of the European Employment Strategy. In consultation with the social partners, the government will adopt each year an active employment policy programme setting out measures for direct regulation of the labour market and a methodology for determining the subsidiarity of professions. With the novel, we want to encourage the beneficiaries to make money and unemployment aid, to actively seek employment and not to remain passive beneficiaries of money aid. The novelty is the establishment of a public scholarship fund, which will provide an additional 15, 20 thousand new scholarships, with amendments to this law and the law on scholarships, which we are now preparing in the government, and thus enable a large part of the schooling opportunities to study, in particular those coming from lower income families. We do not violate social rights by law, as some have been spreading untruths, but we are spreading them. We introduce incentives for first job seekers under 26 and 28 years of age by allowing employers to make contributions, as it has been shown, young people are severely disadvantaged in their first work experience. In a similar way, we also regulate the employment of over 55 years of age, in the same way, by exempting contributions. Forgiveness of contributions for those who replace mothers or fathers on maternity leave or parental leave. With such a positive incentive, we will eliminate the negative attitudes towards the employment of women who opt for the birth of children, and thus also affect the more joy of life that is lacking in Slovenia. The participants in the public works will also have a new right to have a holiday regression, which they have not yet had. As you can see, our orientation is to promote employment and remove obstacles. Incentives before restrictions. The new law also empowered the business office to provide work to students and students in addition to the intervention of work and employment. Why not give the public institution which has a well-organised network of 59 labour offices and 12 district employment services, a good information network, professional advisers, employment advisers who know the labour market and employers to provide such work? This will also encourage the competitiveness of job intervention and reduce the part of the supposed student work that the unemployed could do. The new allocation of 10% of the concession fee, which has now been distributed by the SOS and student services, introduces the separation of part of the benefit into the public scholarship fund, ensuring a significant increase in the number of scholarships, in particular those from socially disadvantaged families, while preventing the high profits of student services, which as public service providers should not profit from this activity and purchase various Julians, hotels and other capital portfolios. There is a need for a certain limitation on student work, as it has basically led the student work so that the study cannot be hindered and, if possible, should be an integral part of the training. Otherwise, it should allow for the provision of the necessary resources for the study. It is also important to take into account the fact that student work has become largely a serious unfair competition, which has also been pointed out at European Union level. An important novelty is also the precise regulation of supervision, so that the legality of the work of student services will be supervised by the Ministry of Labour, the Labour Inspectorate and the dedicated use of funds for the operation of student organisations and the Court of Auditors and the competent ministries and other bodies in accordance with the law. The law introduces a new definition of suitable employment by introducing a gradual duty to adopt a job requiring a lower vocational education, one step lower after three months and two levels lower after six months of application at the institution. In particular, we stress the news that the institution will have to provide the unemployed with adequate employment as soon as it is available. The current law already provides for the obligation of the recipient of monetary compensation to accept appropriate work, including humanitarian work and similar unpaid work, otherwise its remuneration is reduced. The novelty defines appropriate work and increases the reduction of monetary compensation. The unemployed person shall be assigned to such work and employment only if the work corresponds to his/her health and psychophysical abilities and if he/she is not opposed to his/her conscientious objection, which will be identified by professional rehabilitation committees at the employment institution. The law was made available to the social partners in coordination - this has also been stated in the law - and for this we also have proof - and also transmitted to other entities in our society and as such to the National Assembly. Therefore, the comments of some that we did not take into account the social partners are unrealistic and malicious. Proposals were also taken into account to carry out the humanitarian work of the recipients of money aid, one of those groups that form a partnership for development, to which some unions now have critical comments. Most of the amendments were tabled by the legislature in terms of constitutional and legal harmonisation. It is clear that the will of the social partners has been taken into account, except, of course, in the composition of the Board of Employment, where we are obliged to adhere to the Law on Institutions, which determines how the Council should be established. However, the social partners did not want to intervene in regulating the situation of the student work, although this was expected in terms of ensuring the equality of the situation of workers on the market. Dear Members and Members! The key objectives and objectives of the amendment of the law are: greater flexibility of the labour market, which will contribute to increasing employment and reducing unemployment; secondly, promoting employment for those categories of unemployed who find it difficult to find employment, thus ensuring equal employment opportunities on the market; thirdly, motivating the unemployed to become more involved in active employment policy programmes; fourthly, better work with the unemployed and employers; and lastly, the regulation of student work, which must carry out the right mission for the young generation for which we are all responsible. We have high public support for these changes. We prepared a study, which was done on June 14 and 15, 2006, at a time when there was a lot of talk in the media about changes to this law and people knew what we were asking them. It was made on the basis of a sample of 5,240 persons. 69% of the respondents replied that it was right for the unemployed to accept employment, which is two degrees lower than theirs. 83% asked whether the proposed allocation, including an increase in the grant fund, had been answered for such changes. 70% of respondents, however, believe that recipients of financial social assistance could do adequate humanitarian work. I talked to the employees about what solidarity is - that the person who works is making money for the unemployed, the recipient of financial social assistance, and the recipient is not obliged to do anything for this solidarity? Their solidarity is that those who have a job and can contribute to the common treasury for those who currently do not have a job, for example, at a time when employees are working, take care of their elderly parents who need help, a disabled child and something like that. It's solidarity to help each other where they can. These changes require people, and they are the ones who have chosen you. In the last few days, there's information in the media that doesn't hold. That's because we didn't talk to the students. We have and would continue, and the students' representatives have informed me in writing that they no longer want to talk to us in the future. Dear Members and Members! With all these measures, we will increase the proportion of the active population and contribute to the sustainability of pensions. Above all, it is important that we ensure in Slovenia that it is worth doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u17	Thank you very much for further explanation, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs as a parent working body and I invite Mr Brenčič to submit the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here! The Committee, which is native to this area, considered the law in question at its 16th regular session 7.6. Representatives of the proposer, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, representatives of the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the Association of Employers of Slovenia, the Association of Unemployed Persons and representatives of student organisations and trade unions participated in the work of the committee. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which also gave rise to a relatively large number of comments to individual articles, where the relevant amendment of the basic proposal of the Act was also subject to consideration. Many amendments have been submitted to the bill by qualified proposers, as well as several amendments as working material, on the basis of which the Committee has taken this substance of amendments as its amendments. In the context of the discussion on individual articles, the members of the Committee, with the active participation of representatives of the student organisation and trade unions, paid the highest attention to the provisions of Articles 2, 4, 6, 39 and 40 and to the amendments and amendments tabled for the new third paragraph of Article 6b relating to the temporary and occasional work of students and students. The broad debate on Article 2 of the draft law and on the amendment tabled raised the view that the text should be retained in the law, that the right of the unemployed person to be included in the active employment policy programmes is a fundamental right. According to the amendment's proposers, this right should not depend on the resources in the budget, as this would mean that many unemployed persons will be left without assistance once the budget allocated to the employment institution is exhausted. Some discussers cautioned that such an approach meant reducing or even eliminating the scope of active employment policies. In their view, an active employment policy should be established by law and this should remain the fundamental right of the unemployed, which is not dependent on the extent of the budget allocated, as people need not only flexibility and flexibility but also security. In the debate on Article 2, the discussers also discussed the provisions of Articles 39 and 40 and the amendments tabled. The representatives of the trade union also pointed out that they had agreed to the Article 2 dictatorship precisely because of the provisions of Articles 39 and 40, which determined that the Government, after consulting the social partners, would adopt an active employment policy programme for the budgetary or planning period and the Minister, after consulting the social partners, would adopt an appropriate way of implementing those measures. They also consider these to be key provisions of the draft law, as they regulate who adopts documents that are the basis for the enforcement of workers' rights. In this regard, it was pointed out that the amendment of the three parliamentary groups to Articles 39 and 40 - this deletes the consultation of the social partners on an active employment policy plan - is not acceptable for them. The discussion further stressed the need for co-decision between the social partners and social dialogue, as the principle of partnership is also one of the fundamental principles of co-existence in the European Union. After the discussion, the members of the Committee supported the amendment of Articles 39 and 40 of the Social Democrats' Group. The broad debate was also held on Article 4 and the amendments tabled, in which the representatives of student organisations pointed out that the government had coordinated the bill with the social partners and also with the students' representatives. The text of the law has been harmonised and the basic concepts that have been taken into account in the drafting of this law have been changed with the amendments tabled. It was also stressed that the proposal for a law should follow respect for human dignity, which some debaters questioned. They considered that it was the degradation of people entitled to financial social assistance, given that they had to accept any employment, temporary or occasional, humanitarian or other work, i.e. any work that the institution gave them. There has been much debate on Article 4. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] On the basis of this fact, the three parliamentary groups have announced obstruction, so that the Committee has completed its consideration of the draft law in its reduced composition. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u19	Time will run out, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u20	However, a number of amendments have also been adopted in the reduced composition, many have been rejected and some amendments have been accepted as amendments to the Committee, all of which are included in the amended proposal. [[...]] Thank you very much. Excuse me! The content of the report is enormous and in five minutes it is so important to reduce the content to the most important.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Since the meeting at its 16th session had already held its first reading of the draft law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We therefore turn to the debate on the nine articles and 41 amendments, which we will be conducting on the basis of the review of the amendments of 20.6.2006. I also welcome students and students among us, and I am already putting to the debate article 2 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Mag. Robbery, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. So, in the parliamentary club, we have prepared an amendment to Article 2 of the complementary draft law on unemployment insurance and if you look at the good amendment we tabled and the text of the supplementary proposal, then you will probably be a little bit surprised by what you heard when you speak and present this law, the amended bill by the Minister, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and what is actually written in this law. We have heard before that this is one of the first reform measures, we have heard that these are measures that are more flexible in the labour market, that are positive proposals for proposals that will accelerate employment. Is that possible? Is it possible that the Minister can say something like this here before us, but also in Article 1, we can practically all see it together in Article 1 of this Law, make sure that the government deletes the fundamental right, the fundamental right of the unemployed to engage in an active employment policy? This is quite the opposite, these proposals that are ahead of us, not only in this amendment, but also in the subject of student topics, including employment and active employment policies, as regards individual age groups, these proposals are restrictive, these proposals will not increase employment in Slovenia, but will not, above all, reduce unemployment. So if we go back to the action that's here before us. In fact, this measure was one of those fundamental rights that we established in 1998 when we first amended the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act, when some restrictions were introduced in terms of greater responsibility for those who are unemployed, we decided then to give all the unemployed the full opportunity to engage in an active employment policy in order to strengthen liability on the one hand and, on the other hand, give the opportunity. This was a fundamental intention when we introduced this measure into the unemployment law or unemployment insurance. I am sure that, in order to put questions into this study, if you are to give every unemployed person in Slovenia the opportunity to be included in one of the active employment policies programmes, and this is at the same time the duty and responsibility of the State to do so, not just the possibility, if such budgetary opportunities and opportunities are available, then 100% of those who would say, "Of course, every unemployed person should be given the opportunity and the opportunity to participate in an active employment policy programme." Last but not least, such solutions have produced some results in Slovenia that are not sufficient and could probably be even better, but if you look at data on the unemployed since 1998, then you will see that since 1998 not only the registered unemployment rate, but also the rate that is internationally comparable according to the "Ile standards", has been steadily and continuously falling and stops there around 6% in 2004, 2005, and is now here where it is. This is a relatively good or favourable rate of unemployment, comparable to other European countries, but still too high and still a major problem and still needs to be tackled. Later on in the other amendments, I will also talk about what structural problems between Slovenian unemployed people and how and in what way should we properly formulate an active employment policy and, of course, employment policy if we really want what the government is talking about, the greater flexibility of the labour market, the less unemployed, the higher employment rate in Slovenia, even in the part where it does not depend solely on economic growth, because this fundamental engine of reducing unemployment is everywhere in the world with us and in other European countries. And one more thing. How is it possible for the government to propose that we reduce restrictively the extent of active employment policy when, in its own research in the last spring report in international comparison, it finds that the extent of active employment policy in Slovenia is too small, that it is too small in relation to gross domestic product. So this volume is in Slovenia according to this data and this is OECD data "Employment out look 2005" at the level of 0.4% of gross domestic product. If we compare this with the countries where we like to follow our example - in recent times very current Finland - then we see that this share is 0.9%, so at a significantly higher level of gross domestic product, they have more than once more resources for active employment policy, and in our case we have a strict view of active employment policy - where is the wisdom, where is the reason, where is the logic? I must say that I do not see her, except that the government also wants to be where there is no need and no reason at all. If we compare the level or extent of funds for these purposes, for example, in Sweden and Denmark, which are those Scandinavian countries that we particularly like to follow, this is 1.6%, 1.7%. So, in the LDS, we appeal to all Members and Members to look at these data, are official, are available, the government has published them in the Spring Report to imagine and support our amendment. Our amendment means nothing more than that everyone and everyone who comes to the unemployment office will have the right, the fundamental right to be included in one of the active employment policies programmes, and this will not depend on the minister, not on the employment agency, not on the bureaucrats, but on his fundamental right, which will be legalized by this law and will be able to refer to it and likely to achieve something more. This does not mean a solution to the employment policy; this means one small step towards making it easier for those who are unemployed to solve their problems. So, I suggest and, of course, I appeal to you to support our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. First, with the proposal of this law as a whole, there are a number of positive attempts to eliminate, some abuses that did not have the basis for planning certain measures in existing laws and in this area, but that occurs through practice, and that is good. And welcomes this approach by both the Ministry of Field and Government. However, I cannot be as a person who has been acting as a human in this area for the past third year, which is extremely sensitive, especially for a man who is repeatedly powerless - not as a soldier of such or other coalitions. I submit that, in both mandates so far, a very delicate approach has been taken and much has been elaborated on the basis of proposals for solutions, including on the working bodies, that the content has been relatively well worked out. And the same is true in this regard, then the question related to Article 2. I believe that accession is too hard and will, in advance, throw these measures far from the expected results. When we decided in two mandates earlier in this segment to do everything to overcome passive forms of employment with active programmes, with active policy, we were also looking for elements to motivate how to actually prepare this melancholy of the unemployed to enter an active employment policy. Because the trend was that it was best to be at home, to wait to get "those soldes" from the country and I am satisfied. And through this, a whole series of active employment policy programmes, which had to be supported by public funds, also emerged. Of course, these public funds are always difficult to form in the necessary majority, because the need for each resource is more than the capacity of the state. Therefore, from the additional motivation to implement active programmes before passive ones, we have also introduced that the inclusion of this unemployed job-seeker or unemployed person in active employment policy programmes is as motivated, genuine, necessary. That's why we said that this should not be just justice, but fundamental justice. This has created a fundamental right, and I do not know what the cause is and what this fundamental right disturbs if we are truthful in order to be able to find as many unemployed as possible a job. We have been able to find through active employment policy programmes and, therefore, as a country that is the first to care for its citizens' own social welfare, we must provide adequate resources. Therefore, I cannot somehow assume that this basic word is being thrown out, because nothing else represents an additional commitment by the State to ensure that its programmes, which are also the international verification of an active employment policy, are also an appropriate amount of resources if it wants to implement them. And I don't know why this hard approach is necessary. I am not on the committee until now, and I will not get it from the departmental ministry, the minister responsible for creating policy in this area, as he sets himself with the best goals for those concerned by the law and also for the country - why is this necessary? As a Member - I do not know how the Group of Members will act, regardless of who is proposing this amendment, I want the fundamental right of any unemployed person to be included in the active employment policy and I will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u25	Thank you very much. It's mag. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! We are aware that the problem of unemployment is a difficult one and there will always be questions about what needs to be done in this area. I am convinced that the current government, or ministry, is headed by the Magi. Little fella, he's doing a good job in this area. It is only the data of the employment agency from two weeks ago - nobody has mentioned it today - this data tells us that unemployment in our country has reached the lowest point in the last 15 years since we have been a single country. And I think this information says a lot. The Minister has managed in two years, not in two years, in a year and a half, since he has been in charge of this ministry, to bring unemployment to the lowest level since we have been a single state. The reasons for this success of the ministry concern me, and I am convinced of this, in particular, in the hard, responsible and very professional work at this Ministry and also in the connection of the Ministry, the Employment Office and individual centres for social work. The case is never a single-layer case, but it's more and more, and the minister is aware of it and he's saving it. In this way, the Minister has achieved or his ministry has achieved without a substantial increase in financial resources in the budget of the exceptional achievement in the field of employment, in particular through the use of the right instruments and the right programmes of the active employment policy. The second thing to say in this regard is that the social partners have agreed among themselves that, under the programme referred to in Article 50 of this Law, an unemployed person has the right to be included in all active employment policy programmes for the purpose of increasing employment capacity. The social partners have decided to do so. When we received the draft law for consideration in the National Assembly, this was written in Article 2 exactly as I have now read. This dictatorship was consistent with the social partners. These programmes, referred to in Article 50, will be adopted by consultation again between the social partners for the budgetary or planning period. And the social partners were aware, although this has been defined as a fundamental right in this law's previous dictatorship, the exercise of this right has always depended on the available funding for a certain budgetary period. It's always been like this. And for this reason, I also welcome the decision of the Government and the agreement with the social partners to replace this with a fundamental right that has not yet been supported by concrete programmes, which is replaced by concrete programmes, which are quite something in the amendment to this law. Let me just list some measures that will allow the employer to pay back the contribution that this employer pays for the most difficult groups of unemployed or hard-working persons. In this way, the employer will receive the employer's contribution back if he employs an unemployed person under 26 years of age who is a first-time job seeker and who is not registered at the institution for more than 6 months, he will be paid back if he employs an unemployed person who is registered at the institution, instead of a worker or worker on maternity leave and on leave for the care and protection of the child. He will be paid back if he employs a person over 55 years of age who is unemployed or has a surplus job. And these rights are direct, they are incriminating, which is a significant step forward since the regulation of this law. Since the number of persons involved in active employment policy measures, the content and extent of the implementation of active employment policy measures depends on the resources, I mentioned earlier, as provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the actual inclusion of persons in active employment policy measures depends on the level of these funds. This has already been the case, and nothing changes in this area. And the proposed amendment to the law in this respect continues to define the purpose of including unemployed persons in active employment policy measures, but integration does not define as a fundamental right belonging to the unemployed, but rather as a measure whose scope of implementation depends on the programme of this active employment policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mag. Robbery's got a replica. I'm warning you, only three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u28	Thank you very much. There is certainly something to be said about the unemployment rate. Earlier, I simply didn't want to talk about this in particular, because nothing special happened in this area, and it is not possible for us to share specific findings. It is very wrong, however, if today's debate stems from the fact that unemployment in Slovenia has fallen and that it is therefore possible to delete the fundamental right to an active employment policy and even then talk about giving the fundamental right to replace it with concrete programmes. We'll talk about that later, too. These specific programmes introduced here, including as far as subsidisation is concerned, you can look at the basic version of the law of the unemployed, then you will see that some programmes are being abolished or significantly reduced, employment opportunities for those between the 25th and 26th years and the 55th years, so for those who are structurally most employment-intensive, the possibility of subsidisation and the possibility of inclusion in active employment policies is being reduced. As far as unemployment rates are concerned, there are official data and statistics published by the Statistical Office and published in foreign publications, it is the ILO’s unemployment rate, the latest publication shows that the unemployment rate was 6.9% in the first quarter of 2006 and 6.9 in the first quarter of 2005. So the unemployment rate, measured from the quarter to the quarter, did not fall if they were mean, but they would say that the unemployment rate was 7.2 in the last quarter of 2005 and 6.4 in the last quarter of 2004, so it increased. However, I do not want to say here that the unemployment rate has increased, I just want to tell you that there are very serious data and research that show that the unemployment rate in Slovenia in the last two years is about the same level and range from quarter to quarter. So there are enough reasons to fight unemployment, enough reasons to maintain the fundamental right to an active employment policy and to improve employment programmes. We do not restrict the ability of people to work and seek a program for themselves and for their future.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Ms Žginer Tavš applied to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I will begin under the amendment with one question. 6.6. Minister Drobnič, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, said in a public statement that he would support the law in the content it was consistent with the social partners and students. 7.6 This has been disrupted on the home labour body by supporting coalition amendments that are inconsistent, which undermine what has been agreed upon. The Minister had a very nice introduction today, the law is good, the law extends the rights of the unemployed. I am asking whether we can really believe such a minister, whether we can believe those words that were spoken today at the beginning of this point for a speaker. Under Article 2, we have an amendment. The situation today is that the integration of the unemployed into active employment policy programmes is a fundamental right under existing legislation. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs is violating this right, deleting the important words "fundamental right". This means, of course, that the inclusion in active employment policy programmes will depend on the active employment policy programmes of this government, or on the budgetary resources to be adopted by that government. And let me say another information, which, last but not least, speaks against what the Minister has promised at the outset, that only funds in the 2004 budget rebalancing have decreased in active employment policy programmes, and this has decreased significantly. I appeal to my fellow Members and colleagues to adopt an amendment that actually gives what we already have in law, that the right of the unemployed to be included in active employment policies or active employment policies, is a fundamental right, which, last but not least, is the responsibility of the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! We have indeed done a general examination of the law, and I have made quite a few comments on behalf of the parliamentary group on this law. With individual amendments, the whole may be lost, and our basic comment on the law was that individual solutions may appear to have come from the assessment that the unemployed are those who do not want to get a job and we believe that an active employment policy should be promoted. Indeed, in the framework of the Lisbon strategy, the increase in employment is very stressed, we also hear the emphasis on flexibility, but it is true that Slovenia has a relatively good degree of flexibility with regard to the labour market, but we are too forgetting about security in the context of flexibility, and it would be good if legislative proposals were also assessed from a security point of view, there was security of flexibility, even a special pencil was created in English. But now allow me to define myself until the amendment of the Liberal Democracy. I will support this amendment because I think it is good to write down that the right of an unemployed person to be included in an active employment policy programme is a fundamental right. If it is possible to conclude by some other signs what the direction of this government is, then it is a legitimate concern that the government, while stressing favourable statistics on the reduction of the number of unemployed, also argues that funds for active employment policies can be reduced. We had this debate on the 2006 budget, and also on the 2007 draft budget, and also then we heard that the funds are falling because the number of unemployed is falling. But it is only fair to ask whose account it is and why this statistical information is being reduced, which groups of people or job seekers are, however, such that they are disadvantaged and require special care in the group. We have already received a few warnings from the European Union that, in particular, there is a great deal of difficulty in the first group of job seekers and in the group of job seekers, which is those of a slightly older age in which the problems in these two groups are extremely large. Therefore, all measures to increase the employment opportunities of these two groups would be extremely important. And now allow me to return to the opening act of the distinguished Minister, who, by no means by name, has indirectly appointed the Social Democrats as one of the parties in the Partnership for Development, who should be responsible for the fact that trade unions or social partners are now dissatisfied with the proposed law, if the social agreement has been reached, then they have changed something at the request of one of the parties in the Partnership. The whole story has to be told. Whoever was monitoring the situation on the working body noticed a number of amendments and only few of them were attributed to a party of Social Democrats among the three coalition parties, who gave their consent to some amendments, but these were not the amendments that would raise the temperature for the social partners. I'm sure they're not the amendments that would be associated with the students. Only a fair look must be taken at the amendments of the Social Democrats, which we have tabled on the working body of the mother. It is true that later we will have the opportunity to speak on our amendment about what was happening at that amendment and what we were defending. Mr Minister, you have highlighted the need to accept humanitarian work. It is true that we Social Democrats have warned in our general view of the law that it may be problematic if only NGOs can offer humanitarian work. And that's why you've listened to our thinking and accepted some things, but you've changed some things as we didn't want them, because you've really extended this right a lot. I would therefore ask that, when we refer to the responsibility of coordination with the social partners, we be held responsible. For me, coordination with the social partners is also important when considering or releasing the words 'fundamental right'. I understand that the social partners have ever had to find a compromise solution, and we have an opportunity to improve the issue. The inclusion of the right to engage in an active employment policy with the addition of "fundamental right" means an improvement of the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. I will touch on the debate on this amendment that is under consideration, and I would not go into the wider area at this time. We will not support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I will not personally support him, either, for a simple reason, because we have already discussed this amendment on the parent's working body for an hour or perhaps even more and have been given a number of different thoughts. Last but not least, I was convinced by the claim or by the legal and legislative services that there is no difference between the word 'fundamental right' or the word 'justice'. We are discussing a completely irrelevant matter here. The right to an active employment policy is defined in full detail, both in this Article and in Article 37. As for the perceptions that we have fewer resources or that resources are being reduced for an active employment policy, this is pure flooding and demagogicism. For Article 39 of this Law clearly defines that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall each year agree with the social partners on both the content and the necessary financial framework. This means that employment policy or active employment policy is a flexible category that changes from year to year, and it is also right to adapt. Here I would also comment on Mrs Potrate's statement that there is little attention devoted to those who work harder. It is this law that now gives special attention to these categories, as well as the means to do so. And that's just under 26 years of age. We have also tabled an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party to extend it to under 28 years of age and to those over 55 years of age. With such a subsidy or exemption from the payment of contributions to employers, we are confident that we will make a substantial increase in their motivation to choose to employ such categories of the population. Here, I would like to remind Mrs Potter of one fact from the Home Working Committee. You left the session because, in my opinion, you obstructed it unjustifiably. There were as many as 12 amendments adopted under which you were also signed by the Social Democrats and the two amendments tabled by you. The fact that we did not support or accept amendments supported by the opposition is not true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Robb, would you like a replica? Mag. It's a waste, then it's a mag. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. Grill, for giving me a chance to replicate you. It is true that some of the amendments were adopted among the signatories, including us as social democrats, only to look at the content of these amendments. The vast majority of amendments were drafted on the proposal of the legislative and legal service, some of which were editorial in nature. But those who are really crucial and who talk about what I have discussed before, it would be good for them to try to imagine the whole thing. If you refer to an article in a law that gives the government the opportunity to anticipate funds, then listen to me that I have linked this to the specific budget figures, the budget is the one that sets the funds. When the coalition joins the opposition in raising funds for active employment policy programmes for the most vulnerable groups, it will be good. This coalition has not yet begun to implement active employment policy programmes, a number of things have already been done. If we are talking about some other things now, however, I would like to remind you that it was on the proposal of the Social Democrats that the time for the first job-seekers was reduced from one year to six months, to the promotion of employees and also to the group of older people from two years to one year. These things need to be discussed, that we have indeed succeeded in bringing the opposition Member and Members into law, but that if you have had such good intentions in the coalition to follow the European incentives, because the European Union, however, comes to the conclusion that the first job seekers are a group that needs special attention, then the government could already make such proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u37	Thank you very much. There's also mags on the replica. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u38	Thank you very much. There is certainly something else to explain, because it is truly amazing that we are listening here to members of the coalition who are referring to some additional rights to be introduced by this law. I very much ask you to look at the previous 48a article and the new 48a article, as proposed by the Ministry, in particular I would like to ask the gentlemen of DeSUS to see what solutions this law brings. According to the previous law, the employer who employed an unemployed person who was unemployed for a maximum of two months paid half the pension and disability benefits for a period of two years, i.e. to anyone who was unemployed, regardless of age, he returned half of the contributions for two years. With these solutions, which are now, the institution will pay back all contributions for just one year, so that means only those categories that are currently selected will get employers as much as before and everyone else will get less, but at least they will get older, in the previous decree of the law there was; the employer who hired an unemployed person who is over 50 years of age and who is the recipient of the refund - it was 50 years ago, not 55 years - as now - has received for three years half of all contributions. After the current solution, only some unemployed people over 55 get one year. So this is a significant restriction, it is a substantially smaller volume of funds and there are no additional rights, only some retain them. Please take a look at this article too, I wanted to talk about it later, in this article, because we have made amendments here too, but this is pure deception and farce. Don't talk about extra rights. Justice alone, at least in this work, is doubtless shrinking and will diminish. As far as specific programmes are concerned. Please take a look at the budgets, here's the data, and you'll see. In 2005, according to the budget adopted in 2004, the volume of resources for active employment policy was 22.8 billion, and in the draft budget adopted by the new government was 20.5 billion. Therefore, there is no doubt that fundamental rights are being deleted, the scope of active employment policies is diminishing and the rights of many, in particular older workers and those who have long been unemployed, are diminishing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u39	Thank you. We continue the debate. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u40	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister! With the amendments to this law on employment and unemployment insurance, we are discussing at a time when the economic measures of the new governments have produced significant results over a year and a half. We are now faced with the highest rate of economic growth and also with data in this field of employment - the lowest unemployment. Of course, such a state of opposition, formerly led by these departments, will be very eye - to - eye. When we are talking about an active employment policy article, former ministers, from a colleague of Ropa, Mr Dimovski of Social Democracy, from this active policy or from this syntagma have made even science. Even science, but not in the field of results and application of this, but in the field of demagogy on this subject. What have they done with this active policy? But 18% of people don't know what they mean. And I have to say that this area was one of the biggest originators of budget money. I'm afraid so, and you're well aware of that. And this money, with the so-called active employment policy, was largely poured into the pockets of dedicated persons who had a great sense or a great understanding of this "Holy Letter LDS". And I have to say that what you're saying is that during this period the funds for this area have been reduced, that's not an argument for you, that's an argument for doing money here like a pig with a moss, said in metaphor. Nevertheless, more results have been achieved. And I support the Minister here, and I congratulate him that he has achieved significantly better results with less resources. This is certainly due to the fact that Mr. Minister has been within the Ministry system for many years, and that he knows these tentacles and the side of the road where you spent your resources in precisely defined pockets, while at the same time deceiving people that when they are involved in certain programmes, they will automatically be much closer to employment. The fundamental right to work is a fundamental right. I'm no theorist in this field. But everything else is larpurlartism. Larpurlartism in this area, in which you are a great master, how to speak here, how people will be misled as much as possible, so that they will know as little about what is going on as possible, and that you will manipulate them as easily as possible. Fight here for some commas and letters because the minister won't be able to make order in this area within four years. I'm sure it's impossible. Here the system is so sophisticated, whose institutions are involved in this active employment policy; and these institutions and many of the people who performed this have been permanently marked by the fact that they had to do services indirectly. And a lot of this money has also gone into electoral campaigns, and I don't know where you've been successful in the elections and so on. This science, which you have developed from an active policy, was based at the time of your mandates on the dubious values of operators, but on the clear material interests of the policy holders. For this reason, I think it is wise for order in this area to move forward with a more orderly, clearer definition, including a rule of law that will prevent abuses in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u41	Mr Jerovšek, I can only point out that Article 2 and the LDS Amendment are so that we do not go too far into the debate, even though you know I am quite tolerant.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u42	Yeah, I know, but he's a mag. Robbery also cited these compensations in the context of this debate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u43	Then, in the spirit of democracy, of course, I will allow everyone to speak more broadly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u44	Mag. Robbery was talking about these benefits. I know a number of cases where, within the overall policy, what promotes employment, many entrepreneurs, of course, have received these compensations for new jobs, received them, opened jobs that were more fictitious, closed up again, and the others again received funding in bankruptcy. If they had done an audit here, they would know that there were several privileged employers in Slovenia, who were always present at the trough, and they did not even pay social fees. I was visited by people who were employers who knew that they had received these funds from the previous ministries, and then were appalled that they had not been paid enough contributions to their pension. I'd say it again, thank God, if there's order in this area. As has been the case in the previous two mandates or previous mandates, there has been a problem in this area and therefore there have been no results under your leadership. Unemployment has increased, despite the fact that we have been saving resources, etc. I'll support the direction to do more for less money because there's a huge reserve here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Pechet to the floor. I apologize, Mr Pece, Mr Brenčič volunteered for the replica and would give him an advantage and then you would discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, I have also been in the previous mandate, as well as in the previous mandate, and I say that we have worked well on this segment, and on the basis of this work, the results of this mandate are now present. However, if these results are solely from this mandate, then we will be 20% below the European average by number of unemployed at the end of this mandate, if this is so that all of this comes from this mandate. That's why I don't accept constant perceptions that I've been doing bad, I haven't been working. I claim that I have done everything as a man, not as a soldier of a coalition, that in this segment the one most needed has been helped. If the current minister were in a state of discussion, dialogue, one dialogue of articulation, such as that of his predecessor, I would be much easier today than people who need to do good for those who need it. I don't accept these readings anymore, and I will always perform because that's not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u47	Thank you. Now for real, Mr. Pache, for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Minister's opposition to the definition of the right of the unemployed person to be included in the active employment policy programme as non-fundamental rights according to our assessment publicly suggests not only the way Mr Drobnic thinks, but also the way the Government of the Republic of Slovenia thinks. It's a departure from responsibility. In our assessment, the representative of the executive branch of power should have so much courage and, of course, also credibility to hope for mistakes or praises - depending on how it will be - for his own work. The fact is that when the law defines this right as a fundamental right, the State would make it clear that it is in the interest of employment or that it is in the interest of reducing the number of unemployed. In the meantime, your opposition and opposition by your government members clearly indicates that you want to give the unemployed a right, but in the end, when they are also unemployed over the years, you simply did not take advantage of the rights. But the state itself is not in your own best interests. On the other hand, it is understandable that you object to the exercise of this right as a fundamental right, if we look at the green thread of that law, in the second article this green thread begins. And according to my assessment, the starting points on which the law is based are wrong are not the right starting points on which you have built and which can be pointed out in four indents. Your view is that the unemployed are to blame for being unemployed. Your view is that all unemployed people are part of our society without motivation. Your view is that all unemployed people within our society want to do the same thing and that, of course, they are much better off if they receive social support, in other words, that all unemployed people are lazy. Of course, in the National Party, as we have been witnessing for several months within the legislative branch of power and on the basis of the laws you are sending to the framework of the parliamentary debate, we cannot simply attach. It seems to us that the National Assembly would have this fundamental article that we have in the debate and, of course, would have voted with all the votes cast. A fundamental right, which expresses concern about the state of the unemployed in our country, would deserve the support of the entire national assembly, and in particular it would be worthwhile for you, Mr Minister, to define this in your own right, in law a clear responsibility and, above all, a clear concern for the unemployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Germich to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! When we address the content of the amendments, it is certainly necessary to draw attention to the "maniro" of this government, which, in fact, is already consistently reflected in the adoption of certain laws. Yesterday, we had one law, which was amended by the coalition with the amendment by gaining credibility in the majority of one population, with a very large segment in the trade unions being neglected. Today we refer to the adopted social agreement, adopted on the Economic Council, in the government's student affairs world, and there is a certain trick where the content of the law changes fundamentally on behalf of the committees on behalf of Members' autonomy. And today it is still here that we are talking about how everything has been coordinated, how everything has been agreed, and we are significantly interfering with the very contents of the bill, which has been agreed upon. And it seems to me that this government does not lead to successfully solving the problems that arise in Slovenian society and thus does not solve the current problems. In doing so, I would like to remind my colleague Jerovšek again, now he is no longer here, he will use some information, as we call "free after Prešeren", then he goes. Of course, you should listen to numbers that are mags. The robbery has read today, i.e. the data of the Statistics Office, which speaks of the fluctuation of unemployment rates. And looking for the deserving and putting medals is not the right way for me, but above all it seems to me not the right way to talk about it, and I do not understand why it is a problem to include the word "fundamental right" in the text of this law. In what way does this substantially change the content and purposes for which, Mr Minister, you say they are clear and consistent with what the members of the opposition say? Of course, unless it's a "b" given what we've already warned you about in the budget when we were talking about "a". So we're reducing funds on an active employment policy and today we've re-focused on numbers, specific numbers and if you've done "a", you're doing "b" today, so you don't want this to be a fundamental right, so you don't want us to get involved in active employment policies that we can lose jobs tomorrow. In doing so, I would draw attention to a very important fact, which stems from the entire content of the law, those who receive monetary social assistance will accept one lower level of employment after three months, two lower levels of employment after six months according to their education. And in this article we are talking about the need to carry out humanitarian work, and we are saying that the starting point is that every work is honorable. I ask myself, do we not also want to honor all Slovenians and Slovenians who will enter the labour market? For me, this is an extremely important question. I do not want to build Slovenia, which we build on human resources, on knowledge capital, on Slovenia as a society of knowledge, that in fact we will all receive in a period of time that we will have to accept jobs that are significantly lower than our education. I think this is not about motivation, it is not about stimulation, but it is about a restrictive approach to these issues, which do not lead Slovenia to knowledge-based society and together with reforms for the welfare of this Slovenia. Therefore, I think it makes sense for us to support this amendment and give a message to all those who are unemployed today or tomorrow, that the country will actively help to find a new job tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u51	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u52	Your Honor! I really don't understand this amendment by the motioners, who so emphatically insist on the word "fundamental right". In the existing regime, it was also possible to include only as many persons as funds were provided in the active employment policy programmes, or as a legal dictatorship corresponding to reality. The proposed amendment of the law does not deprive anyone of this right. Personally, I believe that the word "fundamental right" is forcing someone, in this case an unemployed person, into an active employment policy programme. It may be according to your "manifesto," that you laugh so much, "for people before profit," but it came a little too late, because your policy, when you were a ruling party, sounded much more like "for profit before people" because it also arose or increased unemployment in Slovenia. In the not so distant past, someone has mentioned and promised hundreds of thousands of new jobs. It should also be borne in mind that the inclusion in the programme of active employment policy measures is not a right from unemployment insurance and thus cannot be equated with rights such as monetary compensation or the right to health and pension insurance or protection. The actions already taken by Minister Drobnik show positive results. That is why I think the debate on fundamental rights by those who have significantly reduced them is merely the instigation of a story that is not. Justice is a right, and all that matters is to enable it to be implemented. Therefore, I will not support the proposed amendment of the Liberal Democracy to Article 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u53	Thank you. It's Mr. Zagorac's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, chairman. Justice is not justice. There are many kinds of rights, and we have the fundamental and then the ordinary rights and rights that someone takes. I understand this amendment myself, and I also understand that some people don't understand it or they can't understand it. Believe me, I understand him. Fundamental right is something that must be, that must be guaranteed, and that is the purpose. The aim is to involve unemployed people in an active employment policy. That's not something someone would make up. Mr Drobnič, a few words to your introductory implementation, including in connection with this amendment, when you said "the law is harmonised". One of the partners in this coordination, or their representatives, is now on the balcony, if it is the custom of this government to deceive us, the 90 Members that we seem to care very little, repeat these words again and deceive them. The law isn't in line. The law was in harmony, but on the day after you said you would support a harmonised law, you broke it on your home labour body. This is the first major law in the framework of the Partnership for Development. The photocopies we received about what the Partnership was supposed to mean also say that the government will strive or strive to reach consensus. This is the first marriage, and you didn't last long when you broke this written rule, a strange partnership and some strange promises you made. However, as for the coalition MPs, who are so vehemently required to defend the minister who comes from your coalition ranks, I must say that it is not fair. You, too, have committed yourself to consensus and have endured until the first law that we consider in this Chamber. It's about throwing sand in your eyes, in a way - the law is harmonised, send us a harmonised law, after you make it uncoordinated on your parent's working body. That's a long way from fair play, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u55	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Moge's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. I will also support this amendment from my life experience, and I think it is in the third millennium, because we have committed ourselves to knowing that our greatest value is the fundamental right of every unemployed person to have this active education policy. Personally, I believe that the government and the ministry, with their clear and identifiable policies, based solely on the reduction of budgetary resources and the punishment of unemployment, are an empty shot, as this will not guarantee full employment, quality jobs, high labour productivity and social cohesion. Dear Mr. Secretary! I'll tell you one universal Latin river that says "Non vitae sed solae discomus" not for school, but for life we learn. It is universal, it applies to everyone, both the unemployed and you, Mr. Minister. And by means of a law measure, when you propose a limit on this right, you will certainly not increase investment, human capital with better education and professional training in you and in the active government policy that we all see now, we are witnessing an increase in investment in armaments day after day, in huge billions. However, when it comes to people, to balance the labour market on the one hand, and on the other hand social security on the other, we have been working at the expense of this social security in recent times, and worse still, we justify our doing so by restricting social rights to those unemployed, by having this punishment as a educational measure, and by having this educational measure as a result of increased employment and better quality of employment in the labour market. I think you kicked it into the dark. I would like to ask you to have so many spines to choose a better status in the government, including in the case of a financial cake, and on this basis support this amendment and ensure the fundamental right of every unemployed person to participate in an active education policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would still remind you of what is stated in Article 2 of the Constitution - "Slovenia is a legal and social state", and in Article 49 - "To guarantee freedom of work". I also welcome the representatives of the students. Data, see, when you mislead the Slovenian public in this way, 2005 shows that, of course, even with the budget rebalancing which was reduced in 2004 you did not provide the necessary amount of money, it is intended to be billions less than for 2004; and, of course, today we are saying that you have an employment strategy regulated and legally covered. This proposal, which is before us today and, of course, I welcome the amendment to Article 2, is, of course, harmonised, and the government has also adopted it, but later, at the last moment, has tabled many amendments that are amending this agreement. Now the main argument of your side is, the law is consistent with the social partners and, of course, also with the students, which is not true, you are simply deceiving the Slovenian public, not saying any other expression, because it would be offensive to you, I will not use it, but the fact that these methods are familiar to you, you are often using them, this manipulation with the public. Dear Minister, we are aware that reforms in the labour market are necessary, but I would remind you whether all foreigners really have the advantage over our citizens and citizens in Slovenia. We know how many foreigners have come to our labour market in the past period, and of course we are also aware of the need to establish such a social system in order to provide some social security, you are not doing so, and you are further doubling this gap between social peace and the actual legal order, which is also enshrined in the Constitution. Saying you've done something super good, which is a nice lie, and we can't agree with that. If you continue to do so, next to the Minister of Agriculture, you will soon be the weakest member of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Please let the debate go "ad rem" and do not go "ad persone", because I can also use Latin. Mr. Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister. For the past time on the Committee, I was also surprised by the debates that have made it easy for some to discuss the intentions and intentions of the unemployed and how easily they are advocated for some restrictive measures or matters through this legislation. Indeed, he is unemployed in himself in a very restrictive position and has restrictive limitations in many areas. It is therefore the least that we can help him in this National Assembly to ensure equality in the choice or options he has when he is in such a situation. I therefore support this amendment to ensure that this fundamental right remains in writing, and I do not advocate a right of mercy which will depend, lastly, on the Minister or on the annual budget patching. We'll talk more about that later. I have no intention of convincing most of the coalition because it would be stupid, because it's stupid for an ass to force them to drink if they're not thirsty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u61	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment speaks of whether I understand correctly whether it is "the fundamental right" or "the right". I mean, if it's justice, it's justice, you can't say it's guilt. Then say it's a crime. The Minister advocates that work would be a fundamental right to be a value and that there would be no belief among people that young mothers who are pregnant will not be given a job or will be expected to receive books when they come from maternity to get those students who are studying today. There are women coming to me as old as me, and they say who else is going to take me to work. This is the responsibility of this ministry, and it therefore seeks to ensure that people and women are also employed when they are 40 years old and 50 years old. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yes, ladies, all of us, but above all, we are women in shock, because women are usually pregnant.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u63	I ask for peace in the Chamber, both Members, Members, as well as guests. Unless I am forced to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u64	This could be done by you and, above all, by providing these risk groups with or trying to give them a better job. And work is social justice, not just the right to unemployment. When you are so grateful for the good and previous measures of active employment policies, I would like to ask you what the results were. There were 90,000 job seekers. These were the results of this policy. I hope that this policy will reduce the number of unemployed. I also ask, who came on behalf of these 87,000 unemployed to negotiate with the government? The government has to make sure that there are as few unemployed as possible to get a job, and there is no record in the law that you can't accept, that you can change jobs when the opportunity comes. And I would like to see that these opportunities are more than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u65	Thank you. The replica has a mag. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u66	Thank you. I'd like to thank Mrs. Uhan for what she said. I think it's very good that we have such explanations, because then we can explain in concrete cases what this law is about, and then we understand each other better. So Mrs Uhanova said what is the difference between fundamental rights and justice, after all. But if that's what he's saying, then it would be good for him to look at exactly what it says. This amendment does not only mean that fundamental rights change with the right, but, Mrs Uhanova first says, within the framework of the programme under this and this Article, that an unemployed person is entitled to be included in the APZ. So he has no right of priori to be included in the APZ, but only within the framework of the programme. This is a significant difference and a significant contraction in terms of what has been so far. And one more thing. It's very interesting that you said that ladies like you are asking you, "who's going to take me to work now," Mrs. Uhanova, right? You seem very young to me, and I'm sure you are significantly younger, Mrs. Uhanova, than 55 years old. And so it is the ladies, who are significantly under 55 years of age and probably slightly younger than 26 years of age, who are now significantly less likely to be included in the programmes because they are denied the right to the subsidy they have received so far. So, on the contrary, these ladies, who will now come to you, have no chance of the employer hiring them because they will not receive a subsidy because you are deleting them and will delete them if you do not support our amendment, which is yet to follow - I am not talking about the amendment to Article 2. And there's something else about the results. I said the results were relatively good. Since 1998, we have succeeded in Slovenia - and this has also been discussed by Mr. Chairman of the Committee Stanislav Brenčič - relatively successfully to shrink and reduce. We had in 1993, if any of you remember, the unemployment rate and the registered unemployment rate were around 137,000, and we got her up to 90,000. This isn't the most important one, this one's registered. Even more important is the one that according to ILO standards was about 8% to 9% and fell to about 6.2%. And this 6.2% is now holding for two years and it hasn't gotten any smaller. And that's still the problem. And today we are talking about whether these marriage proposals that are before us are such that they will be a step forward in bringing these unemployed people additional solutions. What I am saying - and if you look closely at the articles, this certainly is true - those unemployed who are now unemployed will have significantly less opportunities to find a solution to their situation after the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We're going back to the debate and I invite Dr. Gabra to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking, at least in my opinion, about the fundamental stone of possible reforms in Slovenia, so it is no wonder that this discussion is very much alive. This is simply the question of whether in Slovenia we will decide to take a step forward in combining security, on the one hand, and mobility in relation to the labour market, on the other hand. Being unemployed means experiencing an attack on some fundamental dignity that a person has. This means not being able to care for the people around you who expect it from you, which means getting a message that actually is a big question of what else you're going to do with your life. It's about such fundamental things, and that's why people react emotionally to these things, react in a way that makes us afraid. Because of this state in the Nordic arc, they have long known that if they want to reach any consensus on social reform, if they want to reach agreements on how people together would be more at risk, there is also a need to ensure security in some area. There's an empty discussion about who's ever accomplished anything. It is inconceivable to deny that we did not have very big problems after independence; 137,142 registered unemployed were registered in 1993, then there were 104,000 in 2000, then there were 95,000 in 2003 and according to the same statistics in May 2006 87,111. It is obvious that Slovenia has worked here, regardless of the types of coalitions, with people who have run certain areas, both in Parliament and elsewhere, and probably in the government, to reduce unemployment. It has tried to reduce it and it has been a very difficult breakthrough, in particular by increasing funds for active employment policy. This is a logical direction and should only be continued. I am not one of those who think that the record is a fundamental right, so far everything has been resolved. No, it wasn't. The funds have been running low there as well, but that does not mean, Mr Minister, that it does not show any reflection on whether this point would indicate if we really want to go into reform, negotiate and change it with the social partners. It would have to be upgraded. That's my suggestion. That's what you should be thinking about if you're serious about reforms. Then you could say, as the Swedish Minister says, your colleague covering this particular area, he says, "We advocate that one of the fundamental principles of the social state is security. Through security, we invite people to take more risks together." And so they give more public funds, they release the economy that for the time that you're out of the labour market, active jobs you can go to education, they give you opportunities to look for a job yourself. This is a step that Slovenia should take forward. That's all we talk about. All the other games and this kind of empty talk about how it all started yesterday, it really doesn't make any sense. Sapir's report, I told you last time on the committee, is one that tells us who's gone longer here, who's found ways that enable high economic growth and a decent amount of security. It's the Nordics. And let us learn from them, not only the flexible work, but also the work that speaks of safe flexibility. Let us agree on this, and we will also talk more easily about reforms.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Does Mr. Brenčič have a word if he still wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u70	Undoubtedly, it is a fundamental injustice for the Minister to flee the truth. And, Mr Drobnič, today the truth is running away from you, not just today, you have been burdened by a lie several times this week. Among other things, you forged data on the number of abortions in Slovenia in order to clearly achieve certain goals, as well as the number of births, in order to achieve certain measures within demographic issues in Slovenia. But lies can rule for a short time. It doesn't matter, Minister, your fate. It is important in the context of today's debate, the fate of unemployment, because your duration here is certainly not predominant. But I'm talking about you stressing more lies, that you were talking about some arrangement that didn't happen, that you manipulated data on unemployment, the effects and the effects of the past and not just yours, but also the work of others, that I'm not talking about coordination with students and so on. But since we are on this fundamental amendment, let me also point out another question that seems to be on the run for you, Mr Minister. Otherwise, when your government travels through Slovenia, it would not avoid those neurological points that are specifically linked to the issue of unemployment and would enter all those factories or all those companies where these respected people are largely lost and remain on the road. We would also go to the Ormož factory and to the textile industry, where women, especially women, are very under attack. You're also distracted by the interpretation of the data. Let me draw attention to something that has not been regulated within the framework of the current active employment policy so that the results can be satisfied. If this law does not move, these results will be even worse. This is a question of education within the unemployment policy, where data are alarming. Mr Minister, you have, however, advocated the 10,000 plus programme and said that you are pleased with it because it has made an important contribution to improving the education structure of the unemployed. But we should not be so euphoric over facts that are completely different, because if the proportion of the long-term unemployed between 2004 and 2005 has only decreased by less than a percentage, you should know that in the past years when this programme was implemented, successes and percentages in this area have been significantly higher. I am talking about the discrimination that arises at a time when you have fewer programmes, less measures and less money for higher-a-vis to what you provide at the principal level. Therefore, it is not so insignificant to support this amendment, which will also have consequences in the future, which I am also going to talk about.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u71	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Janz.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Dear President, Mr Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! We're talking about a very sensitive area. I think it can also be very slippery for current policy, and probably also for the position, a great opportunity to preserve certain rights acquired. We also speak, and I think that most of us agree that economic social reforms will be needed for the greater well-being of all citizens. I definitely think that we are all quite united in this House of Parliament and the government has somehow begun to act in this direction. However, I believe that the paths to this objective can be different, time-bound and can sometimes be quite sensitive. This area, I see it in my own way, from the environment from which I come, like the mayor, an MP, and also as a former employer, maybe a little differently, like some others, because I am constantly with the base together, constantly with people together and also constantly have such and different hints of employers, economists, business owners, etc. And believe me, for the person who is in this employment institution and who becomes unemployed, usually not on his own fault, on account of such and other webs of circumstances, believe me, when I speak to this person, it is very painful, stressful and a period for every such unemployed person, when it suddenly becomes unnecessary in this society, very bad. This story in recent times, which has been given an active policy in the past, has also had some good effects, as well as a lot of abuses, because successful, resourceful Slovenians, entrepreneurs, abused for such and other purposes, have charged state money for these measures, and in the end the result was very poor in large cases. It's a ransom. What's that money for? For active employment policy. Unfortunately only for a certain period, a short period, and then the story ended. The money stayed, there was no surveillance. Why he wasn't there is another question. These things have deteriorated in this way and otherwise, and there have been some real effects in this area, in my opinion, unfortunately there have been no. It is true, however, that today we are talking about these fundamental rights, and this is, in my opinion, a significant difference in my knowledge of what is fundamental. However, it is right to talk about these rights, it is right to discuss them here. But we've only been talking about rights lately. Rights, rights, rights. However, we hardly talk about obligations in this House as if they were not there. But there are also some written paragraphs on obligations in the constitution. What obligations this worker, these unemployed persons, including companies, has up to what they give him at the time of the establishment, financial support and so on. I think that those who find themselves in this situation, which can be very serious for an individual, must be helped by society. And to those who are sick, disabled and otherwise incapable, much more. Unfortunately, there are a lot of healthy, capable people among these unemployed, but I'm going to say, "I'm going to say, "I'm not going to get a job." Unfortunately, this happens very often in our environment. And that's why -- what I once explained here -- in the end, being an unemployed person -- I'm not talking about all the cases -- with all the revenue that the state is offering today, such and other transfers, is much better than working eight hours in Fox for 90 grand. This is the wrong world. There's something wrong here. Therefore, from this point of view, I certainly welcome the steps taken by the Ministry, the government. But I have one thought -- I'm sorry, Minister, even though I'm a member of the coalition -- maybe this jump is a little too big, too fast. Will we be able to graduate all at once to jump off that relief, that right, and I don't know all the benefits a little bit further? Whether it's good or not, it's the government's opinion, the minister, of you as the responsible one. However, I believe that the professional services preparing this material probably had certain data, a number of experts, including coordination and so on. And it's probably not just the minister who was preparing this, it's the whole network of people who were preparing this thing. I think that some of the starting points have been given, but some things, even at the end of the poll, when we talk about that jump two levels of education less, show great affection for it. [[...]] Why don't you start working somewhere if you're in grade seven and you're in grade five? And probably if you turn out to be good, good at being willing to work, you'll get to the sixth or seventh grade, the same house or somewhere else. You have to have the will to work. And here the country must offer new jobs, opportunities and so on, and of course also an active employment policy, how to get to work as soon as possible. However, a certain group of these people do not want to do this - because they do not want to go to work immediately, because they have such and other incomes outside of it, such or other reliefs, and this work does not smell like it, because it may be too difficult for the Slovenian to be proud and proud, but I would rather have a little confidence and then try to earn a tolar in the middle of this or that address and make a profit. Unfortunately, to those who work hard, in some environments still for very little money, this is certainly not right and fair. That is why I think that these steps taken by the Ministry are positive, good, they are in the right direction and they go into what we all want together. The safety of these people is certainly important. No one is on the road, everyone has certain security in this society guaranteed certain rights guaranteed and I do not think anyone will be left without it. In all of this, I repeat the question whether this jump is only too big, or whether we will be able to graduate so that the opposition colleagues may be able to accept it. [[It's probably gonna be hard.]] . Nevertheless, I think that the path and direction are right, these reforms are necessary, these steps are necessary for the well-being of those who work hard and not least of those who, in my opinion, were the great inefficiencies of the employment institution, including perhaps from this point of view, that they did not perform strictly, against those who abused it in one way or another. Unfortunately, there are a lot of these in our environment. Unfortunately, in the end, those who are right will also receive a reduced right from this title, but this lever goes on. Finally, I will say what I have already mentioned, any healthy citizen who has reached the level of education and, if he is capable of work, simply has to work in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I promise I won't be too ravishing or talk too long. I'd like to say it's just one thing, at least like I see it. It is about whether we have the courage and the power to accept the right of the unemployed to participate in an active employment policy as a fundamental right and the consequences of that. These consequences are clear. It is that we will then have sufficient programmes and that we will have sufficient resources to implement these programmes. It's a very simple thing. I, along with some others, including coalition Members, support this. I will say this on purpose that the image would not be wrong, as if it were now a dispersion along the line of opposition position. Let's talk about how we understand these programs, the content. It is also a matter of experience and experience that an active employment policy in the past, even if it was under a different government, was not something to be evaluated. By chance, I have the opportunity to run the municipality, which was the municipality with the largest unemployment rate in Slovenia in 1998, and we have halved it in more than five years. The best result in reducing unemployment has been achieved in Slovenia, inter alia, or even mainly through the implementation of active employment policy programmes. Even if I were not able to understand this theoretically, experience is driving me to support such a proposal. I hope that there will be enough others who will gather this courage and see the year, two further results that the increased volume of funds and programmes in a positive sense may bear. Also, Mr. Minister, who has long dealt with this area, I'm sure he knows that. The question is whether he will be able to support it or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! I firmly believe that there will be more resources for an active employment policy if order is made on this segment or on the unemployment segment. I am pleased that the proposed law offers solutions for how to deal with this in the future. That is why I welcome the changes or the amendment of the law and will gladly support it. About this amendment. Look, we all know that in 2003, 2004, and I think that 2005 too, financial resources have remained in the state budget for an active employment policy. Today, we can ask ourselves why the funds were not spent. Whether the programmes were not good or not programmes were of interest to the unemployed, whether they were not active enough to be active in the implementation of these programmes, or whether someone liked it better to spend money or with money aid than to be included in an active employment policy. You know, a lot of people have been here today discussing active employment policy programmes. Some of us who somehow run the local community know this area very well, and we also know what the problems are. Not to praise everyone for how good it was, for many things were good, but many things were very bad. And it has been difficult to include the unemployed in the past in an active employment policy, so I think that even in 2003 or 2004 it has been very well written, not a fundamental right to write once the basic duty of the unemployed is to engage in an active employment policy. We also have such practices on the ground, and I am therefore very pleased that the proposed legislation brings solutions in this area, in the field of various irregularities or how it is very 'fine' for someone to receive money, but it will not be included in the active employment policy. I think every change is necessary, every solution always looks from two perspectives. However, since we have been discussing the active employment policy all the time in this Article, it would be very good for everyone who has discussed to know this area, including what has been done in the past, and how successful we have been, and how successful the final exploitation of active employment policy programmes has been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u78	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, Members and Members of Parliament. Since formerly colleague Uhanov was unable to respond to Mr Rope's replica, I should be allowed to say on my own that, in fact, with this amendment, colleague Rob has initiated a very jaded debate in this national assembly, namely whether it is a fundamental right or a right if someone is involved in an active employment policy. More than that, of course, it is important what annual programmes the government will adopt in this area and how much money this money will be spent for this purpose, as my colleague Mikolić has just said before me. We can also write down such a law, discuss whether it is a fundamental right or a right, so we should be very careful whether this rate of unemployment is actually going to decline in this area and whether we will offer social security through employment to our citizens and citizens, because the best social security is, of course, that if a person has a job and takes care of himself. So this will be what is important, not that we have been discussing for an hour and a half whether it is a fundamental right or a right. In addition, let me remind you that in the Constitution of Yugoslavia we have been enshrined as a fundamental human right that the State must provide everyone with a job. Then we broke the Constitution all the time. Wasn't there any unemployed? Of course they were. Do you know where they went to work? People went to work where they could. At our place in Styria, across the border. And that was nice in the constitution. So it doesn't mean anything, and we can write in the highest act of the state if we don't do what's necessary in a scratch. And in New Slovenia we support the government, the ministry in this regard, especially in the operational implementation of this. What it says, however, is fundamental or right, but it does not seem essential to us to this law. Mrs Shirca also mentioned the sugar factory in Ormož. Since I come from there, I would like to say that the sugar factory in Ormož has always worked very well and still works well and that wages in the sugar factory are much higher than in other jobs. So you don't have to worry about the sugar factory for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Replica first, Mr. Brenčič, then Mr. Rop.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u80	Thank you very much. By no means, Mr Sok, I do not accept that we are discussing this issue. Jalov was the applicant's approach, which, when unnecessary under this Article, deleted something that was only an addition to the weight of the active employment policy and the implementation of active programmes. Did that have to be deleted, I wonder. Is it necessary to burden this current society in which we will all have to look for consensus if we want to reduce some of the things that are foreshadowed if we want to get the appropriate funds there to accelerate the programmes that will further stimulate this society? Therefore, I do not accept, at least I do not think that we are discussing this issue today as a barren Member and as a national assembly, but the proposaler's approach to this issue is glamorous. I can't agree with that, so I'm obliged to say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you. More mag. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u82	Thank you. Of course, I would also like to give a replica to this barren discussion that was mentioned and carried out. Two things are. First of all, we are talking about a very important thing, about the status of active employment policy in Slovenia. If this coalition, if this government wants to do more in this area, then I would expect, and everyone would expect me to give it more attention, not less. If this coalition and if this partnership wants to do more in this area, then I would expect that, after they say that it is still a right and deletes it as a right in Article 48, the same law does not reduce the fundamental rights of active employment policy for all those who are between 26 and 55 years of age. And it does not reduce the right for many others, who are also mentioned here, and could potentially be included in employment programmes. And I would also expect that we would not reduce the volume of funds from 22 billion to 20 billion. There is no doubt, it is about reducing the importance of active employment policy in Slovenia, reducing the volume of resources. And the discussion is absolutely necessary. And time will show that those who are reminding us of this problem today were still right.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I'm on Mr. Grill's list again.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u84	Have a nice hello again. I see that this subject of debate has spread to the whole law, so I feel like we have a general debate again. That's why I'm here. Here I would first identify some of the data presented by the predecessors on the reduction of unemployment in previous years on this trend. I agree that it has gradually been decreasing, but it is also important to ask how. The early retirement of some redundant workers was an elegant method, but I do not think that this was the best thing for the current pension system, because we have among the retired people who are certainly still able to work. We also had a number of subsidies in the past to companies that had been pre-destined to default or bankruptcy. Here I am thinking mainly of the textile industry, some also of the wood industry, and today we are witnessing to a number of companies that are either bankrupt or just before that. We are witnessing some of these bankruptcys in Dolenjska and in the White Land, and some of them can still be expected in the future. Where are the culprits for unemployment or why? I'm sure there are some reasons that are quite objective. We know that an activity that no longer has to compete in our field and if leadership is not successful, it is doomed to bankruptcy and those unemployed are certainly powerless here and do not have to contribute to help here. I am convinced that the culprits or reasons are also in the wrong government policy in previous times. Here we could also ask ourselves whether school policy was really the optimal one, whether tax policy was the optimal one. In tax policy, it is likely that a lower rate of taxation of labour would lead to flexibility and employment going on differently than it did. As far as school policy is concerned, however, it would be appropriate to ask where are the reasons why we today have so many young people in the labour market who have been educated and have diplomas from areas likely to be employed for several years or even never will be able to work in Slovenia. Mr Gaber, look, all I can do is let you know that if you came to one employment agency, no, I'm not talking to you, you were talking, or at the employment office, you'd have a chance to see, say, 12% of the unemployed are graduates in New Town. I believe that's the way it is in a lot of other places or places. And among young people, unemployment is mainly in those areas that are, at this point, probably the most exposed social area. In Slovenia we have thousands of job vacancies, but for what profiles, for different professions, for the metal processing industry, we have demand for auto mechanics, we have demand for engineering engineers, construction, electricity. There is a huge demand for these professions, but there is no interest among young people and therefore they do not have an adequate education. In the New Town of Revoz, he is looking all over Slovenia for people, as well as outside Slovenia, for the area for which the state of Slovenia has granted a subsidy to the company. Now we have the opportunity to employ Poles, Slovaks and so on. There is no way in our pool to get people working in such areas. And now on an active employment policy. I am sure that with a good employment policy, a lot of things can change for the better, but an active employment policy cannot solve all unemployment structures in the way we all expect. I'll give you an example. Let's say someone's been educated in college or college, like a sociologist. I would hardly believe that an active employment policy allows such a profile to be diverted to an area, including a university level, a particular area of nature for which we have demand. Thus, an active employment policy is likely only to be more effective in those profiles that are not so highly evaluated. And it is now, in my opinion, that this law brings important changes also to these problems that we have been able to observe all the time. And that is that someone who is educated in college will have the opportunity or even this will be offered by the institution for one or two levels of lower education. And my experience shows, I have been employed by the employment agency, that those who are looking for work who are willing to work are willing to accept work, even if it is less valued than their education. And here, as colleague Janc has already mentioned, I agree that someone who is also employed in a lower job is significantly easier to look for a new job either in the same company or in another company. Therefore, such solutions are certainly promising and unemployment will be reduced in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Rugl to the floor. Replica, I'm sorry. Then I would still like those who have a replica to somehow express it competitively or with sound. Dr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Look, buddy Grill. The issue of unemployment is a very serious issue. Fortunately, the numbers are falling, the reasons are different. I also have no difficulty in admitting to the current Minister that some of the measures it takes are reasonable, smart and must be continued. I'd be happy if you could find out that someone else has done something clever in this country before your coalition. However, I am deeply convinced that this measure was very clever to allow a large number of people to study in this country. Elementary statistics will tell you that with the seventh rate of education, 5186 are unemployed, in this entire contingent almost 90 000 unemployed, and that at the fourth level there are 21504, that with the fifth level there are 25411, people must continue to achieve, as far as possible, a high level of education. This issue will also tell you that now that the minister is talking about how he will take special care of those up to the age of 26 years that they will be able to employ such by the age of 25 only 335, that the problem is something later. All of this needs to be in your hands so that you can get serious about where you need to cut. I agree that in some areas the pressure on studies has been too great. But if we were to go through this system that you're talking about in your coalition right now and say we're not going to limit entry there or we're going to be supporting extraordinary economic studies further, we'd have a thousand more enrolled in this study. When we were restricting, when there was even a need to pay for your study, the pressure was great. I understand that now you're going to fix this with a magic wand to believe that you will. But the situation here is much more complicated. That's why I feel like we need to work with our partners to find the best solutions. I'd say the direction has been the real solution to these problems for some time now. However, since we are now talking about the fundamental right to move forward in the right direction, we should strengthen the mechanisms in this particular area, not even afraid to keep what we now have written down and need further implementation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! It is with great interest that I accept this debate, and I must say that some of you are taking too easy the adoption of this legislation, which we have today on the agenda. I am personally concerned with such drastic interventions: to change legislation as we have on the agenda. And I'll tell you honestly why. Because I am particularly interested in whether the Ministry has analysed if we adopt a bill such as the one on the agenda today, with such government amendments, what it means for those environments where some Members come from, where unemployment is at the highest level: the Drava region, Prekmurje and Koroška. Are you aware that in Maribor you are shutting down or reducing public works by a billion two or three, what this means for our region, what this social and, on the other hand, the economic crisis. I wouldn't be so sure this drastic intervention wouldn't happen. If you look at statistics and you can read statistics, what unemployment means in the central region, where the minister comes from, 4 to 5% of unemployment, and who is among those unemployed. And if you compare some public job offers in central Slovenia or in Prekmur or Maribor or in Koroška, for example, for a graduate lawyer, how many of them apply to one job in Maribor, how many in Ljubljana. There's 400 and 20 or 30 in Ljubljana. And if you go to the Maribor court, look at the kind of judicial exams in Maribor or elsewhere. That's the problem. And in Maribor, we have a problem with educated people devoting their lives to work, getting proper education, diplomas, running out of town because they have no opportunity and no opportunity. And this drastic intervention will take them away from the opportunity and the opportunity to get a job. That's the problem. That's why I would like you, Minister, to give me a public answer here to what this means for those regions where unemployment is at the highest level. And where do you see those points where unemployment, for example, will be reduced in Maribor as a result of the adoption of this law? Tell me that! In Maribor, if we adopt this law, unemployment will decrease by 5% or 10% in the coming years - tell me, will it or will it not?Oh, my God! But if you put that poor guy who worked in a car factory, TAM - both a man and a wife, with two school-bound kids - put him on the road, then don't wonder why there are the most suicides in town of Maribor and in Styria, and in any other region. And why the most affected people and the most socially disadvantaged families are in these regions. Minister, I'll give you another statistic. Why do I, who lives in Maribor, have to die five years earlier than if I lived in central Slovenia and my wife three years earlier? These are statistics and analyses prepared years ago at the Institute of Health Care in Maribor and Ljubljana, and the head of the interior department in Maribor. Tell me that! However, between Ljubljana and Maribor there is only a hundred kilometers of airline, or even less, and the quality of life in one region is significantly worse than in the other. This amendment, which is proposed for Article 2, does not seem so controversial to me, and I will carefully consider whether I will support it or not. Next thing I want to say, when I listened to the debate that some have invested in Novo Mesto. This is about Slovenian workers working in this company. And I would rather see that the government would invest in the economy, in businesses, and reduce the purchase of three or four armoured personnel for the Slovenian Army. I am convinced that this would also reduce unemployment. Some tolar would prefer to invest in the economy of a region where these armored ones will not be produced. Excuse me! I have known some in this National Assembly for ten years, and I have not forgotten what some in the opposition have been saying for eight years. I haven't forgotten. I was in the government at the time, and I'm in the government today, so that's what I'm saying today. I haven't forgotten. For eight years you spoke differently than some people do today! I don't care about the region or Slovenia, not about Stajerce, Prekmurce, Koroška and not about any Slovenian - because the quality of life for us, Slovenians living in Slovenia in different regions, is different, as well as for students and those looking for first employment. That's the problem. In a country as small as Slovenia, these differences should not be. As far as traineeship is concerned, it is important to think in this direction. And I must say, the former Minister of Education, however, the teacher of Slovenian traineeships can't get in the Republic of Slovenia at any school. If the invitation is for a teacher of Slovenian, everyone demands that she have completed her internship. And, Minister, this has led you to some projects and programmes that have allowed one-year funding of traineeships across different institutions for those who are looking for first employment or first job to get this status so that they can even get a regular job. Nothing would be wrong and wrong if thousands of traineeships were awarded to a graduate economist, or for a graduate lawyer or also for graduates from different institutions and institutions, and if the state were to subsidise these traineeships, it would allow them and give them the opportunity and the opportunity to come to some knowledge so that they can apply for such a job as they so require. Those who do not face such problems as we do that educated people flee the region because they do not get the chance or the chance. Tell me, Minister, what opportunity and opportunity will these young and unemployed people in these regions, where unemployment is the highest, by this law, if we accept it? That's why we're here, and I'll be very happy to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Sok, he wants a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. I know there are many problems in Maribor, and here is the opportunity to draw attention to them, but I listened carefully to Mr. Rezman's discussion earlier, who is the mayor of the nearby congregation and told us what the local community has done, how the number of unemployed in the congregation has decreased very quickly. It would probably be good for Maribor, as the capital of Stajerska, from which colleague Kangler comes, to be able to follow a little of the neighboring Ruša and perhaps less of the debates that you have now had. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, chairman. First of all thanks to the speaker for appointing Maribor as Styria Metro, although this government is thinking significantly differently about what Styria Metro is. But thank you, I hope you will also give a vote for Maribor when it is necessary on your part. Although I did not intend to discuss this amendment any longer, some of the predecessors, mainly by the government coalition, have me very, I would say, encouraged me to return to the debate. As far as active employment policy is concerned, you know, as my spokeswoman, colleague Kangler said, this is mainly from the side from which we come, saying, from the Styrian end, which does not end at Maribor, but continues a little further, a very current topic. Politics, Mr. Minister, which you are planning in Maribor and the regions where this unemployment is large, will bring no good. To a certain extent, I agree with Mr Sok. Indeed, even the local community and the mayor of a particular local community should not be anemic of these problems, something must be done. But the guidelines given by this government certainly do not lead in this direction. Someone mentioned, you know, when they defend you in your solutions and your government MPs act in words, and the law brings solutions, and they forget to say which, it's a very bad defense. That this is a barren debate when we are talking about unemployment in our country, I cannot agree with the fact that this is a barren debate, it is a well-intentioned debate that we all hope will reduce unemployment in the country. This has already fallen, but the question is whether this has fallen to your account, at the expense of this government, or perhaps to some of the other moves, perhaps the previous government. But one thing is for sure, Mr Minister, this government, through this law, is causing permanent unemployment for the more hard-working people. Mr. Grill, I'm afraid he's not among us, although I wanted to challenge him on purpose, by naming him, his replica, not speaking in mind, speaking through his thumb. Now in Slovenia, after his sociology, should we simply stop? Now that we've all been in social science, we're all worth nothing because we're harder to work? That was bullshit. And one more thing. He was talking about auto mechanics. It was Tuesday yesterday, I think there was an annex to Employment on the Maribor side of the evening. I think seven car mechanics have volunteered to offer their services. But I would be very happy if these seven or at least six or five Mr Grill would be able to work in Revos. You know, in that Revoz where this government didn't get involved to stay in it with Slovenian Henkel. No, no, she didn't get involved. She forgot. Here comes the foreign Henkel, with foreign labour. And when the Poles were mentioned, you weren't employed in Revoz because you'd be better than the Slovenes, but because they were cheaper. In the Slovenian National Party, we drew attention to the intrusion of foreign labour. Don't say auto mechanics make it harder to work. Mr. Secretary, another statement. I've been trying to get the survey you referred to. Do you know what they told me at your public relations office? That the poll isn't public yet. You present it to us, then the session has to be closed. The survey isn't public yet. The polls aren't public yet, I can't get them. I'll get them maybe within a week. If you're wondering if I'm not going to embarrass someone, or rob someone or make them unemployed because of you, because you're going to come back to the Ministry and you're probably going to fire them because he told me, I can either go quietly out there and give you a list of people who said that, and I can see that you're already dialing the phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Please, we're not in college. We're in the National Assembly. Dr. Gaber has the word. Not anymore? You've been on the list, anyway, in doubt it's better to be more than ever. Mr Rugelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u94	Thank you very much. When I have listened to various debates, particularly to the opposition, I must say that this fundamental right to work from the economy, and not more than 100,000 new jobs, pre-elections, or those that have employed people mainly in non-economic situations, will come after the new. Now I'm going to tell you what the problem is is that we have more educated people in social fields. The fact is that in the 10 years he has increased his enrolment at the Faculty of Philosophy in Ljubljana by three times, and in various other social directions. Why, if we ask? Not because of schools themselves, because of the policies of the past, those with communist thinking. They promoted bureaucracy and the public sector. That's all you've been speeding up. But you neglected the economy, so people did not go technicalally because the wages in the economy were very bad, and they lost their jobs, and you were happy to work in the non-economic sector, in the public sector, and thus put an additional burden on the economy as long as it remained. We are facing this problem today. And today we will no longer be able to employ people indefinitely, as you have done, but we will have to look at the economy. And I say that this proposal is very good. Even if someone has to take a job after a long period of time, even though they offer him a job with a lower education. I don't think it's anything dishonest. If he's really finished school, he'll find himself sooner than before, and maybe he'll come longer than just that education. There are deeper problems here and they need to be addressed in the right place. I've already said we're not going to save them with those passwords, I'm just wondering why you haven't been able to make an amendment to 100 thousand new jobs yet. This amendment is just missing in here, but we're not going to solve any problems. I'm telling you, no. Until we allow the economy to develop, we can give up quite nicely to many. New jobs will only come from the economy in the future, that's what I'm telling you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pečan, then Mr. Koren then Mr. Školč, that I do not read [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u96	Just two brief explanations to Mr. Grill, who is not here. So in New Town, at the end of 2005, the total number of unemployed people was 4.7% with the seventh level of education. Economists, but there is no indication of how much there was. Next time, let him look at the records of the office covered by his minister. And to you, sir, I would like to say that communism is not the one who employs social skills, but capitalism. Just look at how many social jobs there are in Brussels.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u97	Mr. Rugelj, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u98	I just want to explain something. All the countries in which communism was in power were extremely lagging behind. What is the acceleration of the economy? Communion! Come on, be smart.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u99	I know it won't help, but try to elaborate and discuss the amendment and Article 2. And let us try to set an example for the audience and, of course, vice versa. I still have Mr. Koren on the list.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u100	Thank you, Chairman for your word. Perhaps the debate has been a little too long, although I cannot say that it is not necessary, for we are talking, at least in this amendment, about unemployment, which is important, which needs to be seen with the right sense, with the right tenderness. Anyone in a position like this knows that this situation is not easy. The law itself, and I'm sure it doesn't break the existing one, but the law as a whole, I'm sure it builds on it. It is said that it builds on the foundations that have already been in force in this area. The need to do something more on the flexibility of employment is certainly clear to everyone. The competitiveness of the economy today depends on how quickly it can get certain workers to take over a particular business, and on how quickly it can get rid of certain people that it does not need at any given time to do so without jeopardising the company or industry itself. The amendment itself, I must say, doesn't seem to me to be contentious, but I don't see any need. I'm tired of having this written down as a right. That's what I'm going to say, what helps me if I have written that this is a fundamental right, if it's in the budget or if I don't have a program. I'm going to say that fundamental rights are already the right to work, and we know that we just don't all have jobs. It is a fundamental right for an employee to receive an appropriate payment. He works two, three, four, five months, and he doesn't get paid, nothing helps if we have a basic payment written down, if we can't make it happen. It seems very important to me that the law itself is making, or trying to bring a little more order in this area, that the funds that may have been used and gone wrong by now will flow into the wrong channels to remain for what they are meant to be. Then we can do more in this area and this right, which is now written as a fundamental one, may in itself become fundamental.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you for your discussion. I'm going on to the list of applicants. I give my word to Mr. Scholch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I would have more of a replica of this anti-humanist speech by Mr Rugelj. Actually, I'd have a question for him. He's talking about some kind of antagonism between the economic professions and the professions that fuel red tape. It concludes from this that the so-called communist idea and idea favors the humanistic professions, which are then employed in bureaucracy, which, as a branch, if not entirely submissive to the government, is bloody to the national body. This is a very dangerous speech that puts in a strange light a large number of people who have graduated from this type of school and perhaps also the Prime Minister who has completed his studies of defence, who was in some way a party-led program, at least at that time. But let's let what happened 20 and 25 years ago. My question would be to Mr Rugl, how is it possible that his coalition supports the establishment of these rapid legal schools run by their party friends, such as Mr Jambrek? Whether these schools are okay, those within the University of Ljubljana and Maribor, they are not. As he comments, I'll say, an increased admission to the university of theology, which, I'll say, is an absolutely humanistic study. How can it be that the National Assembly, in fact, is constantly changing the laws and forces of various state institutions due to hard-to-work profiles for these colleges, that these professions are privileged to employ them. If we are talking about this anti-humanism, then I am asking if Mr Rugelj actually knows what he is saying, or perhaps he would not be useful if he joined one of these colleges and at least took some of the basis of this understanding of society, so that he could then be able to tell everyone about these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you for your discussion. And the last one on the list between the Members and Members of Parliament is Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Perhaps just for a little while, given that there is not much time and that the debates are expected in the following articles and, of course, amendments. To those, especially coalition Members, who are so afraid or aware that there is so much and so much of the workforce among the unemployed, which of course cannot be used. An active policy, specifically referred to in Article 2 or the amendment, also has programmes. I hope you can list at least three programmes within the framework of active employment policies, which, by the way, offer people who do not get a job, acquire appropriate skills, requalification. And I will do it again, and I will focus only on this amendment and only on this amendment. It is a fundamental right and it would be wise to support this amendment, not least those who do not understand the difference between fundamental rights and only justice. And I will read from the magnetogram of the representative of the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia, who explained that the lawyer is - "a fundamental right, this means, on the other hand, the obligation of the State," I stress once again, "to provide as much resources as the envisaged unemployed, and, of course, such programmes, according to the needs of the unemployed."
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u105	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on Article 2. Minister, I'm sorry, but I asked if you saw the presidents switch at 12:00. You will be able to report directly, under Article 4, but I will not specifically invite you. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed William Rezman and the amendments of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, the six amendments of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the four amendments [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u106	Excuse me, I announced before the president's replacement that I wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u107	Please respect the rules of procedure and follow the instructions. I'm in charge of the session, and I intend to run it for the next three hours. Allow me to read again what I am putting into the debate so that you can apply in time for the debate. Comrade Petty Officer, please sit down.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u108	President, I said that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u109	Mr. Petty Officer, please sit down and let me run the session. Thank you. So I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed William Rezman and the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, the six amendments of the Liberal Democracy Group, the four amendments of the SD Group and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Who wants a word? Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u110	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, for this unloving event. As you know, I made an announcement in the previous article. Unfortunately, the president did not take this into account. It's his sovereign right, of course, whether he gives me his word or not. But unfortunately, I didn't have the opportunity to answer the questions you asked me. That's just the truth, so I'm gonna try it now. Given that the debate was focused on all the articles, as part of the previous debate, I will continue this debate myself. The President, Mr Pavliha - when I asked him how I could answer in Parliament - replied to me as follows: "I am giving you the opportunity to answer all the questions, regardless of whether they touch that particular amendment." And since I respect his decision, I will answer the questions I have been asked. As far as the term 'fundamental rights' or 'right' is concerned, I must stress that this is an expert proposal by the professional institutions that I have taken into account. It is not about any more important background, but about ensuring such a legal dictatorship that corresponds to reality. Let me stress that in 2002, when this dictatorship was in force, "the fundamental right", it was subsequently introduced that active employment policy programmes were provided to the extent set out in the budget. In 2002. So, on the one hand, a dictatorship is a fundamental right in this Article and on the other hand, in Article 50, that this depends on the annual volume of funds. This is a fundamental non-consistence and the professional services have warned me that this should be regulated in a manner of consistency. I respected that and, no big story about it, I said. Consistency or non-conformity with the social partners. I would like to ask you to mention one at least, except for the one that I mentioned, what is the novelty that was given on the proposal to harmonise with one of the parties in the development partnership where the use is determined, i.e. the humanitarian work or the participation of the unemployed in the humanitarian work. We also agreed with this proposal, and I agree with it myself, and I think it is a good solution, especially if we make it possible to supplement it by means of sub-legislative acts and others. Regarding funding for active employment policy programmes; you mentioned the integral resources of the budget. However, you have completely forgotten the increase of 3.5 billion from the European Fund, which we have further acquired for active employment policy programmes. As regards active employment policy programmes, they are in principle regulated, including in other legislation, to depend on the extent of the resources. However, the arrangement of the Active Employment Policy Programme also includes certain measures that have purely legal diction and are offensive. And in this scope of the programmes, we have also included exemptions for young people under the age of 26 and 28 who are over 55 years old and for those who replace mothers who go on maternity leave. Active policy programmes, I reiterate, may consist of rights which are incriminating and from rights, so-called rights, the potential of programmes in which we are involved in the scope of funds and the criteria set out, and this is also determined by the Active Employment Policy Programme. That is also the case, and that is how we continue to do so. With regard to the fact that no other category of persons - what one of you Members mentioned - could be included in the active employment policy programmes; on the basis of other measures that we put into the active employment policy programme, such as subsidies, such as this preparation for employment or training in the workplace. This is also possible for all other categories. However, I reiterate that for these three categories it is now independent of budgetary resources, but it is a legal right. That's the difference! Look, I myself, as the Minister of Labour, a former professional associate who's been preparing some 12 years of active employment policy programmes and working with experts from Europe, I can honestly say I am aware of this. And even within the framework of previous governments, I have prepared professional solutions, some have been accepted, some have not. I am pleased, for example, that the quota system has been implemented as an active employment policy measure. I have also prepared it professionally and theoretically, and this is one of the best working in Europe. Other things are relatively worse. With regard to the reduction of unemployment, unemployment is registered here. The registration of unemployment shall be carried out by an employment agency and carried out as it is. Registered unemployment is falling. This is also an annual and seasonal trend and we have warned about this. As far as unemployment is concerned, this is a sample survey, which is representative, but you must also take into account the limit of confidence. The Member of the National Party argues that I have expressed my view that the unemployed do not want to work as part-time workers and the like. I never said that. However, I have argued that if we have inadequate measures of active employment policy, these measures may affect people's decision not to take jobs, but rather decide that they are recipients of social assistance or something like that. In principle, we are reasonable, honest people and citizens, but it is up to them to act. And it is up to us, as to those who create politics - and also to you, the National Assembly - to take measures that will pursue positive goals, increase employment, involve people in activity and so on. With regard to non-compliance with the social partners - I can read. At the meeting of the working group, held on Tuesday 28.2.2006, agreement was reached on the provisions of Articles 9, 20 and 27 of the Law. However, the only provision of Article 48 relating to the composition of the Board of the Employment Service remains uncoordinated. The social partners therefore call on the government to change the composition of this world before sending the law to the state council. Otherwise, as you are aware, the Economic and Social Council gives opinions, it does not adopt laws. And we have taken that opinion into account. However, we have said why we do not accept a proposal concerning the composition of the institution’s council; because it is written in the institution law that the founder has such a right and such a right. And the founder of the Employment Institute is the Republic of Slovenia. The students participated in these programmes and stopped participating for a certain period of time. It is also their right not to cooperate. They disagreed with certain things, particularly in some other areas, and therefore did not cooperate further. You want us to ensure full consent. I can honestly say, as a representative of the government, that it is difficult to reach full agreement even in the National Assembly. Very rare are laws that are fully adopted by consensus in this government and in the previous government, not only with all interested groups in this Slovenia. However, we want to reach an appropriate consensus. As far as marriage is concerned - no. We're upgrading these changes. We did not claim that the previous marriage was null and void or anything like that, but it had a range of good solutions. In line with the changed situation, with the integration into the European Union, we have prepared changes towards greater activation in order to make work a value, to make it easier for the unemployed to become involved in employment and to ensure that employment is a priority way of integration from social assistance. And that's why we've also given you a survey of how the public opinion, which you also have on the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs website right now - we're not hiding anything. However, we have said that after the presentation in the National Assembly, we will also present it to the public because we are not avoiding it. I have presented four sets of rights where the extensions are. With regard to abortions, suicides and the like, I do not think that this is a question that would relate to this law, at least directly, but, of course, that greater fertility affects the labour market. And suicide as such and abortions are not for the benefit of increasing life in Slovenia and also providing greater labour. For in the future, we will have to provide labour, perhaps, but selectively, from other European countries or from third countries, due to reduced fertility. However, we advocate a selective approach, that clear criteria are set and that our workforce has a priority before employment. That is why three months ago we introduced a programme for training and education of drivers, carriers and in this way we will get a lot of feedback from the Employment and Education Institutions, I think 400 or 500 additional carriers or drivers. The question is why I don't answer to companies like Ormož, Planika, Mura and the like. In all these companies, I was, in Planika, the only one left of the big company in Planika in Prekmurje, we also provided funds to provide new jobs, but we guaranteed a bank guarantee, so that even if something unusual happened, state resources could recover back. We have changed this during this government mandate to demand, in the event of a greater volume of guarantees, which are more reliable and ensure the return of the budget in the event of abuse. And with this measure, we have also provided 300 jobs in Planika. With regard to these measures, the active policy of employment and spending - as far as it is known, some 20 billion tolls of budget money were provided during the previous mandates, on the basis of decisions taken in the National Assembly, at a government level. Then, even over a billion, Elektrokovina, Elan more than 8 billion, followed by a management or administration dispute to win over 2 billion awards for his work. However, this will be judged by those who are called to do so, the Court of Auditors and others. That's what we said. As to whether there was an expert debate, Mr Janc, the Member asked me - yes, a public opinion has been delivered, I have told you how, I have presented to you how public opinion responds, what citizens think, support these measures. I am pleased that the measures support, but perhaps not all of them, but there are professional arguments for this and the analysis is done, most of the measures have been prepared by professional colleagues, so experts are involved. For young people or for those in these less unemployed areas, there are also specific criteria for drawing on European funds. Those areas with higher unemployment have a more favourable approach to active employment policy programmes, and we will continue to do so. For young people, too, there is a special provision that encourages young people to work. I hope I answered the key questions. Thank you very much for the questions raised and, Mr President, for the possibility that I could answer the questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u111	Thank you. On behalf of all the presidents, I can say that we are trying to serve the speakers as best we can. I will read the list of the following debaters so that you, Members and Members, can better predict or plan when you are on your turn. The first word will be given to colleague Potrč, Rezman, Gaber, Brenčič, colleague Žgajner, colleague Žnidaršič, colleague Petan and colleague Capuder. So far, this is the order of things. As it is said, the Member of Peace has the word. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Let me begin by saying that I was not particularly impressed when I heard the announcement by the government and the competent minister that he would seriously pursue the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, because I recalled that 6,8 years ago the discussions we had led when this law was amended and all the debates and all the proposals were aimed at reducing the scope of rights. Mr Brenčič recalls that we worked together in the same working body, that we adopted a law later with relative consent, which gave relatively good results for years. I was not happy with these preparations because of the general atmosphere, which is often in place in the public, which some colleagues and colleagues may have simplified, but it is present because some have also heard from the speeches of some that we have a system that gives too much rights, that we have a system that does not talk about obligations, that we have a system that stimulates someone to stay at home, but that is not looking for employment, that we have a system that gives us many broad rights to choice and freedom, or that the obligation imposed by the State would be fulfilled, fulfilled and so on. To imitate the world situation where they have a much more flexible job, much easier people's forgiveness, much more consistency in those who are given certain rights at the expense of their previous employment, current unemployment and so on. That was the general atmosphere I was afraid of. The minister also spoke many times in this direction, and I was also afraid of his views. That is why I must say that I was pleased when a fundamental message came that the law should be reconciled by the social partners in substance and on fundamental issues, and then I also read it with interest for the first time and wanted to participate substantively in it. In particular, because I was in charge of making proposals with colleagues and colleagues in the parliamentary group on how to improve the law and supplement it, even before it comes into final decision-making in the mother's working body. Secondly, let me say thank you and congratulations to Mr Brenčič for his statements. True, we all worked in this very sensitive area years ago and I was afraid of such discussions that were today. It is most characteristic of Mr Rugl, and what it was like in the middle, which means you know everything, but at the same time you say things that are far from the truth and cannot solve problems in anything. I have been with my colleagues and colleagues to believe that the law that was prepared in important work is still acceptable, but I am aware that it does not give new rights, but that it is still acceptable because it reduces them to a large extent, especially because the social partners have also agreed to do so, and so we have tried to create a new part of these rights. First, to say the least, luckily for the second time in his last performance, the Minister acknowledged that the uncoordinated provision on the composition of the Institute's Council has always remained uncoordinated with the social partners. And I do not agree that it must necessarily be such that the government has an absolute majority. It would also be possible for the government, unions and employers to participate in this tripartitely, but the government does not want this because it is in a pension institution, in a health institution, and in all others, it wants its full authority, as it does in all other areas. That is why we have still made this amendment, and we believe it is a shame not to try, but perhaps sometimes something breaks and a smart solution is taken. Secondly, it is right to stress - and the Minister is reluctant to admit. He wanted, on the basis of our comments made on how active employment policy programmes should be prepared, to remove the right of the social partners to cooperate with the Minister or with the Ministry before the decision. This was released voluntarily by the Ministry of Justice from Articles 39 and 40, so we proposed this in preliminary, pre-parliamentary coordination as a request and were finally accepted. However, this was a clear breach of the agreement concluded with the social partners. Third time. An important set of issues that are not historical, however, are important. The Coalition has accepted our proposal to shorten the period after which the young person is unemployed by the age of 26 and the older person unemployed by the age of 55 will obtain an automatic legal right to be exempt from contributions for a year in the event of employment. A great achievement, a smaller achievement - it is certainly more favourable for the unemployed, if there is no longer a condition of a year at 26 years old, but six months old, and not more than two years at the age of 55 years, but only a year. If there was more, more would be good. That was accepted, too, and we think it was good. We will draw attention to some amendments that have not been adopted so far, and I hope they will. I now move on to the most important point concerning Article 6 or the amendments to Article 6. After things with the social partners or the work of the social partners most certainly interested, with unions and employers, were arranged, at the same time, I hope to say, because of the students' disobedience and because they did not bow their heads and obey one, the other and the third ministers and governments, there was revenge. This is, pending a substantial change in the conditions for the employment of students and the substantial changes in the obligations that students have on the basis of the additional employment of students through the services they employ. Instead of respecting an agreement that had not been fully sanctioned, it was agreed that instead of the obligations that services had not yet had, this grant obligation would have been set up at 10% and that the difference would have been 90% divided in half, half for the student organisation, and half for the costs involved in the transfer of employment, the coalition decided to increase this amount from 10% to 30%, leaving two out of 45% to 35%. Students, since there are many demagologies and non-realitys in this regard, have sent us very specific information in recent days on what the student organisation is doing, because so far, whenever there is talk about a student organisation, the government and its representatives want to talk about some of the high, high, really unacceptable wages, but they are not directly related to the student organisation and its activities. And in this way, evaluate the right to receive the necessary funding from the student organisation for the activities it carries out. I won't, because you've all got this, and I believe we haven't all read it thoroughly enough, or you haven't all read it thoroughly, yet you've read it. I recommend that you read it before you vote, and you will see that it can really happen that if they adopt proposals made by the government, it will gradually come to a reduction in the volume of student work through services, that it may be reduced at all, if not, through employment institutions, that if it increases through employment institutions, it will gradually reduce the share of the resources received by the student organisation, as the government assumes that the institutions will not give nothing to the student organisation, that through the reduced volume of student work through the services it will gradually increase the cost per unit, so to say, to one and therefore smaller services will stop doing this activity, which will have an additional consequence of fewer resources for the student organisation and increasing employment through institutions or fewer jobs of students, because they will be difficult conditions; that some conditions will be changed by this activity, which will have an additional impact on the student's ability to pay immediately, because they have to pay the student's credit rate. In short, the conditions of the student work will change substantially and the condition and possibility of the student delegation will change significantly. I'm concluding that this is a punishment. Once again, it is necessary to reduce the autonomy, independence and activity of a student organisation that has not been disciplined and has not been prepared to make a final hit, but has even gone against the government to demonstrate on the roads. For this reason, we as the Social Democrats' Group, but not the only one, as well as the other, have an amendment with the following content: that the law on the share of funds creates a relationship that has been agreed in principle, 10-45-45, and that, in the event that work is also foreseen through the institution, the employment institution is given the same obligation to allocate funds to the student organisation as the student service does. I expect you to reconsider these proposals. I hope that, at least with regard to these proposals, Mr Minister will not hope to be so perfect or inaccurate that he will say that these are all harmonised things and that this is an agreement with the social partners, because, after all, the students are also social partners, and they are subject to the necessary agreement and cooperation in the making of decisions, but will recognise that this content, which is indeed the last day, has been fulfilled before or before the deadline for making amendments, has been proposed. I personally know this because I have been offered such an amendment by government parties even for signature and I have, of course, rejected it in a very short time and said that nothing should be done, because it means a substantial breach of all the agreements, and finally with us who have been involved in the content of this law. I hope, I believe, that the Minister will not say that, even with his help at least, at the time of the signing of the three coalition parties, such an amendment has also been tabled in the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u113	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Villa Rezman. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u114	I should say that, given the fact that it has signed these amendments by the 12 Members and Members, I believe that I am also speaking on their behalf, in two ways. For the first time, I would like to answer those who, as the first to sign, asked me how you went to support such amendments. I answer that this is about not supporting what they usually say, the abuse of not supporting the service of individuals at the expense of student work, that it was not our intention to support potential officials with names, etc., etc. Those of us who supported this were particularly supportive of the demand, which on the one hand is substantive and speaks of the need to work in a way that is not broken with a steel rod on porcelain when dealing with problems. And something like that was in the case of this law or adopted amendments on the parent’s working body. So we are afraid that those valuables, which are called either student radio, or publishing, or events, festivals, projects, and everything else, would be broken, which is financed by the work for which they will now be deprived in considerable part of the funds. By supporting these two related amendments and the one to Article 6, we had in mind that there was a legitimate requirement of those who negotiated, who agreed that agreements should be respected, that some kind of "guerilla" tactics should not be used in the sense of ambush, on the face of the city, unexpectedly, shockingly, so that some negotiations and debates should even be abandoned, but that these debates should be carried out in a manner that is appropriate in the context of a cultured dialogue. So we want these amendments to bring the situation back to the way it was before that successful diversionary attempt. If that were the case, if we were to receive sufficient support for this, perhaps the minister or the proposer should also be satisfied, who in his original proposal did not propose what is now adopted. He even referred to the fact that he does not have the power to decide Members, but we all know how to accept amendments on the home labour body, and he would hardly believe that this was past his behaviour. And so if these amendments were accepted, the situation would return to what he himself signed as a basic proposal. Apart from the fact that we are concerned about respecting agreements and that it is necessary to make changes - which are also necessary, because there are some weaknesses, no one denies it - so that it will not be brought together to the detriment of the student population, to the detriment of their study programmes, but also, of course, to the detriment of the provision of those social adjustments which the student work allows them to do. Let me get this. We want students to study first, but first we need to allow them to study only so that they do not have to work for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u115	Thank you. I invite Member Slavko Gabra to the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to refer to the words of the two forerunners. I think we are witnessing in the Slovenian Parliament today some very specific behaviour that enters the main door of this Parliament. In fact, an attempt to make an agreement with students and a student organisation at a certain point. I do not know if it is necessary, but in view of what has been said here today, let me remind the Minister that on the website of his ministry, on 13.3.2006, "The Ministry of Labour has also aligned the proposed amendments to the Employment Act with the student organisation of Slovenia." The Minister therefore liked to boast that he had reached an agreement with the students. I myself, who had some experience in making such arrangements, was, in fact, kindly, glad that I believed there was hard work behind them because the student organisation was always a hard negotiator in these procedures. However, it happened that he resigned from this agreement here in Parliament, as did his closest colleagues from his party and the ruling party. With this, they have told youths in this country that the agreements are not valid; no matter what you agree on, it is important that you have the political power to turn it in a different direction overnight. What does this have to do with morality, with values, with the formation of a normal civil attitude towards politics, as well as the regulation of common things in this country, will the Minister know. His people like to talk a lot about morality. The act we witness is "par exellence", an immoral act. Apologizing to the fact that as a minister you did not know what Members and Members are preparing for you is a mildly worded misappropriation. A minister who does not know what the ruling coalition is, the government, or an important part of the ruling coalition is investing in parliament, whether he is not telling the truth or he is not a minister for his field. I don't think anything like this could happen to him. Why, I wonder, and we are also wondering about us in the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia, this is what is happening here today. We're afraid he's holding what Comrade Potsch said. It was an exemplar punishment of a student organisation that hoped to organise protests against some elements of reform that were not sufficiently pretentious. What's more, this same student organization connected to the unions. They did it together. But this is too much, so they need to know who the master is in this country. The study population in Slovenia does not experience something like this for the first time. Even after the demonstrations in 1968-1972, it was attempted to break the autonomous organization of this space and were not particularly friendly times. Some of us studied during these periods. It took a long time and Slovenian autonomy has also brought strong autonomous sources of funding to the student population, which enabled it to be established as a partner in discussions with the government on issues affecting the student population and had to be taken seriously. When it came to the issue of nutrition, it was chosen by the student organization. When it came to the issue of student work taxes, when it came to the issue of student homes, their construction, when it came to defending themselves against ideas to introduce tuition - all of this is a student organisation. Disgusting for someone who has to solve specific problems, but when they were hard negotiators, they also formed themselves into upright people, who will eventually take over these seats in this House. A lot of them are gonna do it. Whether they were without mistakes, it's a funny question and it's only a person who believes that everything is right on the one hand and everything is wrong on the other. There were mistakes. Of course, this student organization has ever acted irrationally when it comes to spending funds, but who does not. We hope in Parliament to say that every tolar in this House has so far been used rationally. Even at home, everyone does not dare to say that he has ever achieved such a thing. They slowly formed, I have been monitoring this organization over the decade, and I have the feeling that this team is among the more mature, very mature, it was the one who decided to agree with the previous government on how we will invest in student homes, how to invest in colleges, how to take care of equipment, how to take care of it before we can raise funds for students, including food for students. They knew it was a responsibility to discuss how to develop different areas in the country. I admit, it was doing this conversation and this negotiation quite a bit, quite nervous of the former authorities as well. But the difference is one; those authorities never came to mind, two - the first to organize a fifth column in the form of their own underages between the student population, and the second to take away their financial resources so that they can function. That's two points of difference. This difference is important and separates the democratic power in which different policies are being tackled from the one that is dangerously approaching the limits of totalitarian governance. That's what we're talking about! This is especially so because those who are ruling today should especially know what this is all about. Because these people, unlike some who are sitting here today, colleagues and colleagues, know what the Tribune is. They know what Krt is, they know what the Journal of Science Critics is, they know what Radio is. They also know that the academic choir of Tone Tomšič is the institution, the entity that would not have been if there were no student funds if there were no student organisation at the back. I hope they also know that today, one of the most representative collections of Beletrina beauty is that they are the funds of a student organisation. I hope they also remember that they themselves found refuge, the current Prime Minister, when he had problems with power in the 1980s, within the Journal of Science Criticism. He'd probably run out of resources for life if there wasn't an area of student organisation and also student finances that would allow him to move on. It would not be important for the Vienna Committee, if it were not, not only for Youth, but also for the then ZSMS and more, but for the absence of the premises of the Student Organisation in Ljubljana. We sat at the door when we wrote texts that were very important for Slovenia for this very period, which we are now going to celebrate a lot. Being independent is not just ten days of a time, but being independent is something that has been carefully built. There are people here between us - I can say this directly - with whom we have ever had problems. But if we are objective, they have done a great deal for it, in various segments, even here, in the then congregation. The quiet Pott is one of them, the Ferri Horvat is the other and so on. We were then called the other side. But today, when I ask myself what someone did for this Slovenia, I think they've done a lot. The student population has made a huge deal. From those circles, these students, came the people who run the important companies that run this country today. That's where they formed. At the time, the authorities thought that they were irresponsible by means that they were rude, that they did not have the right measure. Today's government should ask itself if it comes to the same mind as what discourse it uses, so what are we talking about? And you should be able to limit yourself, limit yourself to the point where he wants to punish students. We must not allow Slovenia to punish what is the most finished future of these spaces! Wrong message, ladies and gentlemen! A short joy is what you manufacture. After all, you can break this suit of student organization, but the student population in this country will not be able to break. If it is true that you are only concerned with scholarships, then stay with what you have agreed with the students; then they will believe you again. Otherwise, how can they believe you if you've made one deal today and tomorrow you'll come up with something completely different? And in Slovenia we prefer to talk about how to provide more scholarships, of course this is a serious problem, it is a serious issue. I am not merely saying by chance that, in the new circumstances that Mr Minister is pleased to talk about, we need to consider whether we really need all the armoured personnel we are buying right now. That we need them is clear, but is it true that we need them all? And how much out of 63 billion could be earmarked for development, or maybe reopened conversations within NATO, or instead of 2% could have 1.8% of the resources enough and put about 14 billion dollars a year into development. These are real questions for this country. And as the pensioners said, it was necessary to find means for a safe autumn of life, so it is also necessary to find funds for Slovenian security, for safe development, for the safe years of the most engaged life, in a way that considers what our priorities are. This would be understood by many in this world, and I think it is better than going through a system of penal policy, based on a system of reflection, respect for an agreement. I agree, as my colleague Rezman said, that we have already talked about on the committee, we who have signed different types of supplements - we have also signed this together, which he spoke about - help the government to return to where it was, help her to keep her word. Only such a government will trust anyone else to think seriously about reforms, or else I don't know what he's doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u117	Thank you for your performance. It stimulated two replicas. Comrade Sok, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Although I think that the implementation of Mr Gabra would fall on some round table of a 15-year-old Slovenian independence, I would like to replicate it as regards the exposure to our morals and our promises. I can tell you, colleague Gaber, that the New Slovenia Group did not make any promises to the student organisation. We had a meeting with them, probably as well as your parliamentary group, where they presented their visions to us, and we also gave them our visions of this issue concerning the student work. So the reading of a defiant morality, what you've been doing all along and pointing at us, of course, has nothing to do with reality. I can tell you again, and I told you yesterday on the agenda that the laws are passed by the National Assembly and in the coalition of government parties, we have decided to table an amendment, as was adopted by the Committee, and with this amendment, a greater proportion of what the State is giving up on the student work, to apply for scholarships. We are also convinced that most students in this country, at least we receive such responses, it supports, agree that more scholarships will be available, but of course student officials have a different opinion, especially those we could read about, have seen on TV in one of the TV Trends that they have higher wages than ministers of the Slovenian government. They are, of course, against such a concept, we understand that, but most students agree that there is a major change in this area, but not that students work, they get 10%, that then certain students get high salaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u119	Thank you. I ask attention and that you do not disturb the one who has a word in the given situation, of course, this applies to everyone. We continue with the list of applicants. I give my word to Ambassador Stanislav Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I may be in the basic direction of question 4 of Article 4, which substantially amends the 6th existing article of the law, directed somewhat differently and difficult to say that I would have accepted all of this as a punishment for the conduct of student organisations in the past month or two or three months. But the fact is, for no government and no union in the world, no students are an easy interlocutor, but dialogue needs to be conducted, it is necessary, even if it is difficult. It is true, however, that sometimes it is necessary to take a broader view of a social issue or a broader reason for Parliament to decide something a little differently, so we are here, so there is a parliamentary democracy. Article 6 of the existing law has, of course, two basic themes: one is the intervention of workers by the institution to those who receive financial social support and are unemployed; the other is, of course, the offer of occasional and temporary work to students. In this approach, I certainly welcome the objective pursued by the Minister in the sense of establishing a public scholarship fund. This is a good approach; another approach is also good: it is necessary to reverse the occasional work of students in terms of the real recording of the situation on this segment, especially in the light of the protection of the excessive establishment of unfair competition in the labour market, precisely because the student work is so much less burdensome for the employer and the employer has an interest in this context to employ students and less graduates who are looking for employment for the first time. To them, of course, this is logical, for virtually the same work he creates a much greater profit if we are honest. That's why I think this approach is the right one, but we have to have some measure. I myself, in the coalition, when we coordinated this matter and in which this amendment was also created, supported that, from some of the knowledge of the things I had, a higher percentage could be measured, 10% of the concession fee to the fund, and a reduction in a certain percentage, which is primarily an activity of the organisations which mediate, whether it is an institution or a student service, given the fact that things have been happening on this market, such as the unfair performance of certain companies which are student services, are acting as companies, on the capital market. From the arguments we had, I also supported the government or the minister, as well as the coalition, that this percentage should be corrected in terms of the entry of part of the funds into the fund. The purpose of the fund is good, only if we want it to achieve what the Minister would like to achieve, we need to find additional resources. However, the situation is this: then, of course, we also met students, with the great ones who are present among us. There have been new arguments, new facts, and I have also come to the attention of many, I would say, the presidents of student services, including them, are completely diametrical views, and therefore I think it is a shame that we do not carry out the mission given to us by the Rules of Procedure, that at the working body, which allows for a broad discussion in the second reading, even the interested and affected public concerned by the law, that we do not stop for a moment, and that we correct the law in terms of quality. I'm afraid that didn't happen. But that's what I'm trying to say. It does not matter whether we charge one student service for 45% or allow it to spend 45% of the 10% concession fee if it has a realisation, say, a high and also an area where it works, the situation is that it has relatively much recovery or payment realization. There are smaller student services, which also have a small fund of invoiced realizations and also extremely difficult recovery of non-payments. We need to know that one set of employers who employ students, especially the smaller ones, who blindly fail to fulfil the obligation, and also with this issue, the institution will have the same costs, the recovery of things and the intervention of work. I am not so sure that without the state budget reaching it, the institution will be able to maintain or release even 10% of the concession into the public fund. It can if the country makes a contribution from the budget for all costs incurred. That is why I am sure, even through the fact that I then realized what all the content offered by the student organization through its organisation, and also some students have warned me that everything is nice and right, that also some of their products need to be placed under the scrutiny that it has already hit them for a while. Therefore, I think it is wrong that we have closed this dialogue, I think we should relax it a little bit or put it into the quality of the law on the working body. We didn't make it there. I therefore firmly believe that the Slovenian People's Party's Group will give all the votes available in order to keep this article open. And if anyone else does, we will enter into this article in conjunction with the amendment proposal in the third reading. I'm sure, in my own name, I'm saying that the agreement of 10, 45, 45 has been reached, but I can say freely and peacefully that it needs to be changed a little bit. I am firmly convinced that the amendment is too severe. I wanted to do it on my own, I intervened twice to fix it at the time, but I think we'll have time to think clearly now, because it's unfair to take the student service Maribor with all the capital, and I don't know, student service somewhere in Murska Sobota or I don't know, in regions that don't have such rich employers and not even have the opportunity to offer students work to do the same. But the big question is, who has higher costs by offering and organising occasional work. That's one. And secondly, how would we put this right in the face of this article so that we do not make unnecessary tensions, we would plunge society into conflict? However, I know that on the side of the student organisations there is a willingness to have a dialogue, just to be a little bit, I would say, genuine in the discussion with both sides, and government, our and student readings, if no one else, we will make a suggestion that this article, in particular with regard to offering occasional and temporary work to students and students, will change that it will be innocent of certain student organisations as well as of certain student services and that there will be no purpose, in this case I support what the minister is pursuing, in order to find itself in this public fund of scholarship at least an envious level of resources, so that this fund will also carry out the mission that we are setting up. I'm sorry if this was done and meant to be a punishment. I don't think you should be. There is strength in dialogue and dialogue, and we need to find a better resolution than the basic bill, and even better than the complementary bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u121	I call on Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I will refer to the words of my colleague Sok, who mentioned pride. The pride of this country at the age of 15. I will use the words spoken today by Prime Minister Janez Janša: What was only a dream 15 years ago is now a reality. Unfortunately, dear colleagues and colleagues, the reality is what is happening today in Parliament. The reality is that the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs is lying, literally, but more about this, fellow Member Boštjan Zagorac. Last but not least, I can assert it myself, whether it's a lie or a delusion, if you want a milder form of that word. In February this year, the law was truly aligned with the social partners in the economic social world. 6.6.2006, the law was still harmonised. 7.6. Respected colleagues and colleagues failed or failed to achieve the harmonisation initially achieved with students and social partners. Why? Because the government coalition has tabled amendments to Parliament, amendments also supported by the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, who said only a day earlier that it would support the law in the same content as it was coordinated with the social partners, not least with the students. Allow me, this law, the law that we are talking about today, which is, by the way, once again, I stress, is inconsistent, is the union's home law, as important as, for example, the labour law. We're talking about the parental law that we accept with our left hand. Finally, see how many representatives of the ruling coalition are present today when we speak of such an important article, the amendment present at this meeting. And I'm sure most people don't know what this law says, and yet they'll vote like the minister said. Last but not least, the trade unions are surprised that amendments have been made by the government coalition, according to -- I repeat -- assured the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. I will now speak very generally about this Article 6 or the amendment to Article 4, and perhaps later on in more detail. This article or the adopted amendment introduces a so-called forced labour through the side door, which is unpaid work, and the rejection of this work, by the way, means the loss of unemployment rights and the removal from the register. The fact that the funds to unemployed persons are social money aid [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Money Social Assistance - Mr. Grill, you should know that, given that you gave false information in the Reflections, which means you don't know the law. Finally, none of the social partners is satisfied with this proposed law. The students aren't happy either, so they tabled an amendment. Finally, we have also prepared an amendment in the Slovenian National Party with which we return the matter or content to the agreed and harmonised content. I hope that Minister Drobnic will, in consultation - given that he is not with us now, I hope that he will consult, perhaps even with a higher instance - to gather as much common sense or honesty as he has talked about today, and give a signal to the government, coalition Members that they will support the coordinated and agreed amendments. The content ahead of us today also means an end to the autonomy of student organisation. It means abolishing the basic source of funding for the student organisation of Slovenia, which has its activities very dispersed, even in different regions. And let me read just a few thoughts from the letter I received yesterday for the end of my work, given that time is pursuing me; I believe that you too and you are familiar with it. "Dear Members, honourable Members! This week you will decide the fate of a few tens of thousands of students and not just them. You will decide about their families, their successors, their little children who will one day come to study. You decide about the system that has been created for years and is also connected with the Slovenian state as yours," that is, ours,"legislative assembly. It has also evolved, democratised and expanded and become indispensable for the welfare of citizens." And what seems so much more important to me in this letter, also because the government is always talking and stressing what care should be taken for greater birth, for young people, and also for student families. It is a representative of the Club of Student Families of Slovenia. "In the last ten years, the club has been able to draw attention to the issue of student families and the complete lack of consistency of the country, which has not known what to do with us for many years," that is to say, student families, "and how to regulate this status legally. With considerable financial assistance, they have established a very transparent operation that helps many future young parents with very difficult times when they are dealing with socio-economic and existential problems - where we will live, how we will finish our studies and at the same time take care of their children." At the moment, the Club of Student Families of Slovenia and the Student Counsellor of the ŠOU in Ljubljana are the only advisory bodies where young parents can find and receive the necessary information. The government, the minister and the government coalition, respected colleagues and colleagues, this funding is overturning aid. Since I really don't have any more time, I will only remind you of one more fact that is reflected in this decision of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, regarding the suspension of support for the operation of student organisations or clubs.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u123	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Franz Žnidaršič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would like to draw attention in this debate to the fact that, at the time of the drafting of the amendment of the coalition to this committee law, we have drawn attention to the imbalance in terms of the agreement reached with the social partners and students regarding the solutions to the capture of money from student work concessions. On the other hand, in the Member State of DeSUS, we advocated a step-by-step approach to capture this money for the benefit of the scholarship fund. I must also say that then the coalition amendment was formed on one side of the views or filtered information and arguments. When we examined the matter later, it turned out that, for the first time, it was necessary to respect the agreement reached in the negotiations also because we do not imagine how the negotiations would be held next time not only for the students but also for the other social partners, for example, if the agreement was not respected and then it is up to Parliament how it would turn out, although we are a coalition, the government coalition of the same government would probably have to support and respect good arrangements in Parliament. At that time, we proposed that, if there were to be an additional reduction in the resources that student organisations would receive and remain in the student service, that this should be done gradually, so that at least this year would be in line with what has been agreed to increase this benefit by 5% to the scholarship fund in the following school year, and maybe 5 in 2007, 2008 in order for all parties to gain time, while at the same time demonstrating whether the system is working or whether there will be a fall in the student work or whether a certain amount of money will actually flow into this scholarship fund, or whether it will not limit too much the rights or programmes of the student organisation now fueled by these funds and so on. Finally, employment agencies are not prepared to employ students overnight, nor will employers switch from services to institutions overnight, so they need students, institutions, employers, and services to monitor this, time to see whether the path, direction and way are right in changing the agreement that has already been reached. As a result of this aspect, this amendment, which we have signed to respect the agreement and perhaps later, if we see that the matter is working and in the context of the renegotiated discussions with the affected, we have reached a further violation of the funds which are now going one way and would then go the other way in order to have more scholarships and that it would be necessary for less students to work to be able to study. On the other hand, the additional funding to the scholarship fund at this time would certainly be mainly the result of student work, not from other sources, which of course is not good. Additional funding should also be provided for grants from other sources. Thank you very much. That is why, of course, we will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u125	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Rudolph Petan to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. And I'm going to try to show this topic a little bit differently. Indeed, very cold, statistically, mathematically, dry, but usually mathematics holds, 4 times 4 is 16 everywhere, in China, in Slovenia, in the afternoon and at night, in winter and summer. But I'd like to show you a series of sizes, which is what I'm talking about. We can talk about five tolars and we can do, I don't know what kind of debate, but we have an extraordinary session, but it's actually five tolars. But we can let a billion go, or billions, without discussion. I will speak solely of the distribution of these concession funds. There was something written about it. Now 50 percent of the student service is distributed, 50% of the student organization. According to a new proposal, which is in this consolidated text, the amendment corrected 35% and 35% of student services, student organisations and 30% of the scholarship. I was able to read it, and it also encouraged me to debate that I started to think the way I am now going to explain what this means. In addition, it was written that this way we would ensure, with this 30% stake, 15,000 new scholarships. I also informed myself that this address alone will not be 15,000. That's true, so I did the calculation based on real data, and about 5,000 would be. That's the real number. What does that really mean? This means that 30% of the stake is 5,000 scholarships, if the rest of you, as some say today, was an agreement, that would be 1,750 scholarships, let's say 10% of the share. I'm not gonna ask another question here. This means that the costs of the services are borne or equivalent, I will say, equivalent to 6,000 scholarships each year, costs of student organisations as well as 6,000 scholarships and 5,000 of that 30% share. Now let's move on. What's a wish, what's a student's need? I imagine he's studying, so he's got to have his conditions set. One of these conditions is the scholarship that he does not have to work or just a small number of hours so that he does not have to study too much, to think about where he will live, and these things are regulated, especially how he will pay for it. If he's got a scholarship, he'll probably pay easier than if he doesn't, and he'll have to go to work anyway. Now this is where the problem comes in. Student work at this point was a necessity, it was a consequence, not a cause. The reason was somewhere else. As a result, he had to go to work to make sure he was able to pay. This new proposal, a 30% share that will provide 15,000 new scholarships with some additional funds, should be welcomed. And this goes exactly to that quota of wishes, the needs of students, not just students, but also parents have the same desires that their children will be able to study so that they will not be too burdened by the family budget, even a certain category of people. The same is probably the desire of the country to study and to study as soon as possible and also with as high an assessment as possible. We're probably not going to discuss whether 1,700 scholarships are better at 10% or 5,000. That would be demagogic. I'll just let that go. But there's something else I want to say. The fact is that we all want to have as many scholarships as possible and as soon as possible, not gradually, not three years or five years from now, it would be easier to have them already. It is said that we must begin as soon as possible. Now the question is: is that equivalent of 6,000 scholarships for student services and 6,000 scholarships each year really necessary for student organisations, or can be reduced to scholarships. If you asked me, I'd say it's definitely necessary to find a smart relationship, but it's certainly likely that more should be given for scholarships. Like I said, it's statistics. It's very dry and very cold if we want. But in this stat, they keep numbers. And it is true that it was on the account, because now it was different, now it wasn't like I said it was, but there were 10,000 scholarships every year, because it was 50% on the account of the organizations and at the expense of the services. And today, at the expense of these scholarships, student service owners own the most luxurious hotels in one of Slovenia's eminent health resorts. They're owners, I don't know which companies, I'm not going to mention the platoon, and I'm going to ask if students have any cheaper rooms in those health resorts, or if they're drinking some cheaper water, Juliana. I don't think so. And since you mentioned some other things earlier, I'd say those hotels don't put anything in the scholarship fund. It's not the students' fault. This needs to be made clear. But that's the way it is, and there's no profit in the grant fund from those hotels. Not even a tolar. And that's what I'm gonna say. The fact is, it was said earlier that there was some kind of punishment for students. I don't know what kind of punishment you were thinking. I'd say that if there was any punishment for students who didn't have anything to do with it, they were the hotels they didn't have anything to do with it, but it was at the expense of their work. I know that every organization, including the student service that works, has to have a profit. There's no dilemma here. In Europe alone, there are five, six, seven to ten percent of the profits. But on account of things like this, you can't get everything that's happened. Maybe someone thinks, I don't know what kind of term I'm supposed to use when I mention these hotels, but the fact is, there was more than 10% of the profits, there's probably more than 10,000 scholarships a year in college work, that all of this could be bought, because it probably wasn't just that, but something else. And that, before that, there was talk of unemployment. I agree with both sides a lot, but I want to say this. If the previous government has tried, as we have heard, and I admit it, this government is probably also trying, and at this point statistics have shown again that we have the lowest unemployment rate at this point. I'm sure it's some sort of process from before, I don't know how many years, ten years, if you want fifteen years to come to that. But what am I trying to say? I want to say that this government is probably not doing anything stupid either, otherwise this trend would not continue to reduce unemployment, but would start to increase unemployment. It is said that the measures taken by this government are probably an upgrade to the former good, which must also be recognised. So not everything that this government does, but priors say, listen, and now they're doing it outside of everything, they're making mistakes, it's going to go wrong, it's going to go "out of the ground," it's not. Apparently, the statistics show otherwise. So, for God's sake, let this government do something, and we'll finally say, listen, the data is like this, if it's good, you deserve a commendation, you keep doing good, but if it's not good, you guys are a little off. Then there's the score, we know where. Ladies and gentlemen! We also talked a lot about fate. I'd just add that, and I'll go back to what I've said before, 35, 35, 30 ratios, I'm not gonna say it's perfect, I'm gonna support it. I support him because of all the comparisons I've made. Of course they're one-sided, and I admit it because I've compared all the funds to scholarships. But that's information we all understand. We all understand the scholarship, either I have it or I don't have it. Intermediate levels are almost gone. I don't know her. And since we all want our children to be able to study so that they don't have to deal with anything else, then I will support this proposal, where there will be more scholarships, and there will be less that we will then be able to say that someone on their account has reached, I don't know what kind of capital or, if you want, I don't know what kind of wealth they're also going to want. It just happens to be like that. There's probably something else, but we don't all know about it. And I will say, because it was said earlier that such a fate would be our youth; I would say that if there was any fate of our youth, it was the hotels that proved that so far it was not optimal. I'm not going to criticize anything. That's just the way it was. That's how it was, we can see that it's not okay, not just anomalies, but it goes beyond all the limits of good taste. On the one hand, students have to fight for those tolars they get to pay for their work, and on the other hand the owners of those who give them work are digging up in wealth. It's wrong, it's not just an anomaly, it's a wrong-set world. And to avoid this, I think our youth's fate will probably be better, so I support this proposal, where it is divided by 35:35:30. I'd be even more radical. But it's okay. There are also arguments that speak or think, I will say, arguments maybe not, reasoning that speak otherwise, I respect that opinion. That is why I support that division, and I will not support any amendment, because I think that even in 35% for both institutions, if I call them that, in which 5,000 scholarships are equivalent to money each year, probably enough. But time can show that there is something different. But at this point, I think it's time to allow that kind of thinking, so I'm not going to support any amendment that's going to reduce funding for scholarships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u127	Thank you. My word, Mag. Franca Capudra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u128	Thank you very much. As far as the students' work is concerned, I'd like to talk a little bit. We have now found that the work of the students on the proposal of this law is not being abolished. It is only taken, and I think it is good that it is taken primarily to the mediators of the student work and some individuals who have been rich at the expense of student stings. And that's what I think is good. Otherwise, the student work is subject to special conditions, which on the one hand are characterized by special benefits, and on the other hand some restrictions, because they are looking for a benefit, then it is probably also to the detriment of someone else. And another of the basic leaders would say or repeat it, and that is that such work should not be hindered by the study, because everything happens too often that students simply forget that their basic task is to study and study in particular. Learning, learning and learning, it only takes us too long, unfortunately. The study usually lasts for five years and lasts for much longer than five years. And in New Slovenia we support all the proposals that go this way with regard to student work, so that the student work should also be an integral part of the training for the future profession. I think it makes sense for students to get used to their future profession. And I think the students themselves are looking for such a job that is appropriate for their education or their future profession. In Novi Slovenije we supported and also tabled amendments to Article 4 of the Act, so that 30% of the concession fee for the work of students and students will be earmarked for a special public fund, from which - when the law on the regulation of scholarships - scholarships will be financed. As I can see, this money will be devoted exclusively to the needs of socially disadvantaged or socially disadvantaged students directly, and in particular to a greater amount than has been done so far. So far, there has been too much abuse in this area, and I also think that too little money from the student organisation of Slovenia has been devoted to the needs of social transfers especially to those who need it. According to some of the data I have seen at the Ministry of Labour, the funds that will come from this fund from concession fees, along with additional funds from the budget, employers' funds and probably also from the European Cohesion Fund, should be allocated from this fund, if I have understood the Minister correctly, 15 to 20,000 new scholarships. I think that this is the information that tells us that it is worth supporting this solution, both the fund-building solution and the solution that 30% of the funds are earmarked for investing in this fund. As we know, now half of the money from the concessions was the work of the student organisation and half of it was the work of student services. In doing so, I must say that this is part of the money that the state has given up on him. Due to these low duties, student work can be more competitive than the rest. And because of this, student work is often also unfair competition, mainly because of the abuse of the student work we are witnessing in our country. That is why I myself, and even in our Group of Members, lacked the response of trade unions, which were very pale or sometimes not involved, did not respond to the obvious abuse of student work, even though it was, as I mentioned earlier, to unfair competition for unemployed workers whose right to trade unions should be sought above all. Many times, employers have forgiven the workers for being able to leave the students because their work is cheaper. That's what I think the obvious abuse of student work is in making profits for entrepreneurs. I expect such measures to prevent the unjustified enrichment of both student services at the expense of student work and some individuals. I think the money the students made is primarily for them. That is why I also support the solution that student work can also be provided by employment agencies. I am convinced that such institutions, which know the situation in the labour market, have sufficient supply and also have a number of links with employers and, above all, have a highly developed information system for placing work on the market and also for monitoring the performance of student work. In this way, I am convinced that the abuses we are witnessing in our country could be prevented. As far as I can monitor the response between the employees, and among the students themselves, they support these solutions. One of the support of this solution is a survey published on the website of the Ministry of Labour, where it is asked whether you agree that part of the funding received from the student work for its work by the student organisation and part of the funding received by the student service would be allocated for scholarships, which 83.3% replied that they agree. 700 people were surveyed, 5240 randomly selected telephone subscribers were called from the computer list. The President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u129	My mistake, colleague Capuder. Please leave the speaker alone to tell him what he has, the others, if you want to debate, there is still an hour and a half, sign up, the procedure is simple and has been the same for several years and I'm very sorry that you don't know her yet. My colleague Capuder, once again, you will be excused on behalf of those Members who do not know the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Chairman. The students' support for the proposal tabled by members of the coalition is also discussed in a letter that I received at my e-mail address, and I would read it in one part. In line with the fact that Slovenia urgently needs to increase the number of scholarships to help socially disadvantaged students and students who have a basic residence far from the place of the study, I express my support for the proposal for the allocation of funds, as it represents a necessary step towards addressing the problem of lack of scholarships. I believe that the autonomy of the student organisation will be fully maintained after the entry into force of this law, since, with a more sober and more rational internal spending, the student organisation, through its autonomy and its programmes, can provide and implement with a smaller level of funding, while at the same time it is essential to increase assistance to vulnerable students. I also believe that student services will continue to remain highly profitable institutions for the intervention of occasional work, as money is absolutely enough for everyone. All of these suggestions are by no means a miscalculation of students or any kind of punishment. I will not support the amendments tabled by the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u131	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Mitja Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. Certainly, the way the applicant now wants to regulate student work is not appropriate. If, on the one hand, we can see that in recent years there is nothing good about student work, then we can look at who is saying it. In general, those who have no experience with student work and who generalise and therefore such flat-rate charges against students cannot be accepted on average. Because of the individual anomalies that arise and cannot be eliminated by the competent services, it is by no means permissible, smart and correct to strike all those who do not participate in these anomalies, all students who not only fill the gap in their budgets through their student work, because the scholarships are not, not only that this work is often of their existential importance, but in this way they gain many other benefits. Let me point out the improvement of employment opportunities, as they can often get professional experience through work, which they later benefit from. On the other hand, economic and economic importance is very important here, because companies are such students, who are flexible workers, businesses simply need this and need it for the day-to-day outages of the workforce, for seasonal work during the summer when this is the most. Once again, it's not right for students to blame everyone for anomalies that aren't even as much as you all point out here. If you don't believe me, ask Durs, and you'll see how many such anomalies have been treated. What's going on? This proposal will particularly affect the smallest student services in the first phase, again not in line with the direction of more coherent regional development advocated by the government and, on the other hand, the promotion of a private initiative. What's gonna happen? After the operation of the smaller student services, which will be the first to strike, this work will be taken over by employment agencies, which are objectively more expensive and even less efficient. Then why do we want to do so when it is those who deserve it the least and who are most needed from the local point of view, but if you want to account with the student organisation, on the one hand, and the Maribor Student Service. That's the background behind everything. It is not right to remove one tree, as I said, from the student service Maribor, you want and are willing to cut down the entire forest, even in such a way that the disrupting tree will fall last. The promise of scholarships that students deserve by themselves, by the way, is a great deal of hypocrisy. Look what happens. The scholarships from this fund, 15 thousand scholarships, as far as the speech was concerned, by the way, this is exactly the value of one armoured guard, about which so many speeches have been made lately, this fund will become empty sooner or later, as after the work of student services is no longer a source to fill. It is not a formal termination, it is a matter of being able to contribute less to these funds. And if I look at the implications at the local level, the implications at the local level are quite horrifying. At university centres and centres there will remain larger services for longer periods, at local level, where even during holidays, when students do not study and are not at study centres, there will be poor work provision, there will be no support for the economy that needs this work. And what happens? Students from remote areas will be further affected, as they are now, for all other reasons, such as study costs, transport, etc. Because of this, we cannot agree to such logic. If you want to deal with some, then do so in such a way that not all those who do not deserve it will be harmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u133	Thank you. I give my word to a Member of the Happy Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President! See, our proposal has been, and this debate confirms that it would be most wise to withdraw this law from today's debate and put it back into coordination. This was not accepted. I have my own daughters who are studying, and I'd like to say something. If you're blind, I hope you're not deaf. Students and students are not sheep, and in this case you will certainly not be able and you will not be able to manipulate as much as you think you can with them. So sooner or later, you will have to face the consequences of what is happening today. To say that the law is harmonised is, of course, not true. Such a law could have been harmonised in some segment, at some point, and later, when these promises were broken and the government itself is the basis of certain amendments to this law, we cannot claim that. What the coalition is doing today is essentially gradual, if not just a radical abolition of the student organisation. Even more, she mixes student organisations with student services. Interesting! Student services are legal economic operators and student organisations are those who care for social, cultural, in fact for the level of social and student rights. And I don't know why you're trying so hard to mix some profitable activity with your rights. I just can't understand that some people lie to the media when they represent this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u135	Thank you. I would like to ask that the meeting of the Liberal Democracy Group, which is now in its 22 minutes, be suspended. We continue the debate. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. I think, Mr President, that this was a partnership meeting because members of the coalition also participated. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u137	I'm sorry, my mistake is two meetings, two parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u138	First of all, I would like to say something on the subject where you are constantly operating on an argument from a survey prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Family. If we ask people in this poll whether they support half of us Members going to this scholarship fund, I guarantee you that there would be 99% of us. [[Let's hear it.]] It is therefore difficult to remain relaxed in such arguments and to have a really rational discussion on this subject. Just as my colleague Zagorac said at the end, which I have already pointed out on the committee when we discussed this. Some of you just don't want to get rid of - or you're doing it on purpose - to mix student services with student organization, their way of functioning, functioning and so on. That is why, in my discussion on this Article, I stood up for the student organisation. I'm not going to talk about student services, but in the end, maybe I'll make another suggestion. First of all, I would like to say that my opinion and now my firm belief is that it is a sort of mini conspiracy against a student organisation. The solutions proposed in this Article, in particular those provided by the proposer, as well as what Members of the coalition majority say today, do not only mean changes in the status of the student organisation, but simply mean - because they are detracting from a significant part of the resources - that the extent of their operation, which has been drawn up by the programmes so far, will have to - if these solutions are adopted - be reduced. They're simply not going to be able to materially support this. And that means that in some ways we are removing the level of autonomy that this student organization has had. Here I must point out that I have an ever-increasing feeling that, as we had in the law on public order and peace, the law on societies is a great deal of mistrust in young people. But you're not 16 anymore. It's a student organization where there's a young generation where they're 20 years old. I suggest that these autonomys, which have been built by this student organisation in these poor 15, 16 years, are not taken away from them by this legislation. It's simply my request, if that's possible. And another matter that goes through these changes or these additions. It is obvious, and this is now really too obvious, that in all times of life, people's activities and actions are being smuggled into the so-called policy of charity, which the state has declared itself to be. And that is what we, as Members of the National Assembly, are doing in a declaration through legislation that we are enacting through laws. And this law is one of these, and simply the state takes the discretionary right to give charity something, first picks it up and then gives mercy. In this case, we have already discussed this discretionary right of the Minister at the previous paragraph of Article 2, because we have not agreed to the fundamental right of the unemployed, and this is once again the same matter. So once again, I just don't accept this way. We are all for the public scholarship fund, especially for this public scholarship fund, if it is now, and the government has obviously shown its inability to regulate the scholarship policy in this country. However, I will give three, four suggestions on what is envisaged in the fund, where a generous government can contribute with its actions to the fund's completion. Why wouldn't more than two billion money earmarked for business and copyright contracts to advise half of it be put into this scholarship fund? Why don't the fees, the extra profits of government officials, ministers, secretaries of state who are doing things related to supervisory councils and so on, put into this scholarship fund if we are really going to help students, our children, so that they can study more easily? Why wouldn't part of the funds given for so-called political tourism, travel abroad, be put into this scholarship fund? It's an irrational consumption, and you all know it's an irrational consumption. Why not part of the commissions that will definitely fall into someone's pockets, even within the framework of the state, into this scholarship fund? In short, there is a good chance that this scholarship fund will be filled. Now there is only one offer, namely, students who work through student services deserve to be able to study, and at the same time they will have to earn an extra scholarship if they wish to receive it by grace from this country. I therefore propose once again that the majority of this proposal is not accepted in this House.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u139	Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u140	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Minister, not all students eat parts and not all students are corrupt tycoons, such as your thinking. However, I must say that I am pleased by the representative of the New Slovenia Christian-Human Party, who quoted the words of one of the great people who said: Learn, learn, learn and learn again, because only if you learn will you be able to benefit your country. A great man, a beautiful thought and a real one, believe me. Or an upgrade that is probably alone in school never understood: A nation that has such a youth, or students, if you want, need not be afraid for their future. Let me get on with it. Mr. Minister, I've obtained a magnetogram of your opening remarks. Student services, which you don't separate and throw in the same basket, buy different Julians, and you say this affects the study. I don't understand how this could affect the study, but you probably already know. Next, thank you. [[on my part today probably first thank you]] for the fact that - I myself had a performance at 11am and 40 minutes - at 12.15 on the Ministry's website a survey was published. Aberrant! Thank you, Minister, for being able to get a survey. In your implementation, you said that the sample of the survey was 5,240 people. Your website says: "5,240 randomly selected people: 1,625 were unavailable, 2,410 did not want to participate in the Ministry survey, 505 did not match the model definitions," I don't know, they didn't give the right answers or they didn't have the right faith, I have no idea what these model definitions were. In short, only 700 people were surveyed in the end, which is significantly less than 5,200. And when you cited percentages, these percentages would be significantly different, respected Mr. Minister - you who do not deceive this National Assembly, do not deceive the public and do not deceive partners sitting on the balcony and those who watch us in front of television screens. This law is the first among the laws of the Partnership for Development. Bad travel of this government, poor travel of the partnership! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u141	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u142	Thank you for saying that again. I am convinced that we are all aware that the primary task of students should be to study and that the primary task of the country is to try to ensure that the conditions for this study are as high as possible. I also agree that it is right for students to work, but above all it would be more useful for them to work in areas related to their study, which would complement their actual knowledge in colleges. They are probably aware of both the students and the employers - and it would be good for us to be, too - that they are the ones most exploited by employers. And here's the thesis that we hear a lot of times that students do some casual work two or three hours a day, it's certainly not real. There's probably some work, too, but I know a lot of companies, a lot of areas where students work not only eight hours, even more than eight hours a day, for weeks, for months and so on. Just for information or for thought. Let's take a look at the call centers, let's look at some stores, and we'll see how many employees are there and how many students are there. And all these students don't have transportation to work, they don't usually have lunch, they're called when they need them, and they're definitely under constant pressure here. Here I would now touch some of the aces or demagogies spoken by my fellow Member, Dr. Gaber, on the immorality of the coalition, which is why we have now tried to secure a greater number of scholarships with this amendment in particular. The state does not even have the tolar, all it wants to achieve is to provide more funding to the scholarship fund, from those funds that students themselves create, and not that these funds are then transferred to student services and also often in a non-transparent way in student organisations. It was here that it was obvious that things were not aligned with the unions or that the unions supported a model such as was originally proposed. That's not true. If anyone remembers, support for such proposals has been expressed on the home working committee where we have dealt with these matters, not in the debate, but also by trade union representatives, or they wanted these matters to be more restrictive. Similarly, the representatives of the unemployed society expressed their support for student work. And they also stated nicely with concrete examples that student work is unfair competition and that some changes would be needed. I would now like to touch on the publication that we received from the student organisations. I agree, there are many areas of activity listed here, but I firmly believe that many societies or interest groups or anything financed from this money are fictitious. It means that they were looking for a way of trying to use the funds that flowed into student organisations and often in a non-transparent way. When I got this thing, I asked at least five students whether they knew or even used any of it, and you can believe that no one could tell me anything about these things. Apparently, only some of the chosen ones use these things. I am confident that with a model like this, there will still be sufficient resources for good projects in a number of student organisations. It is true, however, that in student services, many services will have to act more rationally and not be rich at the expense of student work. One last sentence. The transitional provisions of this Act provide for a slightly different percentage ratio and, on the basis of this, it will be possible to see the consequences of these legal provisions, if so adopted, on their functioning. If it turns out that anything needs to be changed here, this thing can still be corrected.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u143	Thank you, you. I call on Ambassador Marjan Pojbič. Were you appointed? [[You weren't.]] Here you go. My friend Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u144	Thank you, Chairman. Respectable. In our system, the charging of 10% of the concession fee by students' services is a specialty that is not known by EU Member States, because the work is provided to students by employment agencies and it is therefore justified to include the institution in the intervention of the work to students. As the institution will allocate the total amount of remuneration paid to the public fund, the public fund earmarked for the grant will also be increased. Let's ask ourselves, if we were students, we'd have two options. First, would you work through student services where 10% of concession fees would be distributed in a manner: 30% - scholarship fund, 35% - student services and 35% - student organization. Another way. I take the principal through the employment agency 10% of the amount from the recipient and he is fully committed to scholarships. I'm sure that's a very sensitive question. In addition to the partial increase in scholarships, I also support the functioning of student organisations and student services. What brings me to membership in a particular student organization? Depends on the function and position of the student. I'm sure there are at least material benefits for the employees and officials of student organisations, and for the rest of them, I wonder. There are many local societies in various fields, sports, culture, tourism, etc. that carry out their projects, which are not intended only for students. We have local youth councils, fire associations, not to mention further. Their leadership certainly does not work according to the principle of 'first themselves, only then for the others'. In addition, special mention must be made of college students who, in my opinion, are ideal for the implementation of projects of interest to students of individual colleges. They would need to increase their operating resources. Better and more cost-effective projects would certainly be implemented. With regard to student services, we now have an interesting position, employment agencies are carrying out their activity, which does not include student work, and student services are only performing their activities for student work. I think student services should also consider extending the scope of action. Many are already preparing for this change, so we have also adopted an amendment on the Committee to Article 62, which gives student services and indirectly to student organisations time until 1.1.2007 for amendments. [[...]] Dear colleagues, my friend! However, I would like to read again the letter that Mr Capuder has already read in part today, so that you can understand my debate and that is also an argument to my debate. It was sent to the National Assembly on 19 June 2006 to the Heads of State and Deputy Leaders of the Parliamentary Groups on the subject of: support for the amendment of the law in the work; it concerns concession fees. I quote: "The undersigned Marko Limbek refers to you with an opinion on the proposed distribution of funds derived from student work concession fees. In line with the fact that Slovenia urgently needs to increase the number of scholarships intended to help socially disadvantaged and students who have a basic residence far from the place of study, I express my support for the proposal for the allocation of funds, as it represents a necessary step towards disaggregating the problem of lack of scholarships. I believe that the autonomy of the student organisation will be fully maintained after the entry into force of this law, as it can, at the same time, make more and more rational internal use of the funds of the student organisation and ensure and implement its programmes with a smaller level of resources, while increasing assistance to vulnerable students is essential. I also believe that student services will continue to remain highly profitable institutions for the intervention of occasional work, as money is absolutely enough for everyone. I advocate the continued autonomy of student organisations, which, like an autonomous university, are an integral part of every democratic state, but autonomy does not only mean the Bianca waiting for the performance of arbitrary activities, but also brings with it a high responsibility to the society which has granted it autonomy, in this case especially the high responsibility for representing the views and representing its interest group of students. At the same time, this responsibility must be built on the exclusion of all political, financial and personal interests. Your decision and your personal desire for the students to be properly managed by means of the student fund, student work, with polite greetings. Student of the FMF, Graduate of Mathematics, Senator of the University of Ljubljana, member of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education." Dear colleagues, my friend! Now you can ask yourself when you said so loudly today, and you're looking at this from your point of view. I am convinced that this is one of the major arguments that follows the objective pursued by this bill. It's over. I have heard many times, and this really hurts my ears, how we will end the student work with this bill, abolish the student service, end the autonomy of the student organisation. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm sure that's the biggest lie I've ever heard. And not only that, it is an incredible and unacceptable deception of Slovenes, Slovenes, students and students. This bill will follow greater transparency, greater responsibility and better functioning of student organisations as well as student services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u145	Thank you. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u146	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, when we consider this law, we listen to the text that the unemployed person is to blame for it, given that he is a lazy man, does not want to have regular employment and engage in an active work relationship. That is why we have a repressive approach to the measures in this law on this segment. On the other hand, we are talking about the text of the amendments to Article 4, which is about how concession fees should be shared. On the one hand, we are also talking about what is well written in the letter of student organisations that the student organisation represents a partner. If he wants to be a student organisation partner, of course he expects a partner on the other hand. Today, much has been said about whether and in what way we should have a relationship with this partnership. I would, given that this has already been pointed out today, quote again, because in my opinion, someone else will be able to repeat later, the texts of the first reading of the text of this law. Mr Ivan Grill says the following: In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this law is good and will make an important contribution to reducing abuses, improving employment policies and regulating unemployment benefits, especially on the basis of such legislation, several thousand new scholarships will be possible. We will also fully support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Mr Franz Capuder: Solutions in the law on employment, unemployment insurance seem good to us and we will therefore support them in Novi Slovenija. Whether solutions are premeditated or not, the question depends on how we view it. The fact is that the solutions have been coordinated with the social partners, and this tells us a lot in Novi Slovenija. Today, many times it was said that there were conversions. And, of course, here today, when we hear words about students being naive, allowing exploitation, wealth on their own account, I wonder, of course, whether we are offering them a solution that is different from what they said, 10% of the concession fee at the expense of our work in the scholarship fund. I strongly support it to form and that in Slovenia every student or student is able to receive a scholarship. Of course, I wonder why this drastic twist has occurred, and not to tell me that the left hand does not know what the right hand has done, that this government coalition works in one way, when it comes to Parliament, but works in another way. And that the amendments fell from the sky, that no one in the government knew about it. In this way, the Slovenian public, as well as the students accompanying this debate today, could be greatly underestimated. In what way to have the contents of this article written down, it has been said today that we cannot see the forest because of the tree. And today, again, there is doubt as to what the students are writing to us about their work. I have to say that in my professional career, before I came here, I worked with students and students for 10 years. And if anything pleased me, I was glad that they always had a critical thought about what we older ones were doing. And the first time I stepped into a classroom in college or then high school, it was always, "I doubt it, so I did," because we're talking about dogma differently and, of course, it's very difficult for the unthinking to introduce a developmental critical thought. And today I wonder if it seems to us that the activities carried out by students in the course of the study, which in this way are actively spending their leisure time, for which today and in the past days, and even in this session, we will talk about the need to adopt restrictive methods of young people's movement in certain hours, and we do not point to ourselves, but we have a mirror. And today we don't want to hear this mirror of this young generation, this promising generation, who rightly disagrees with everything we do. And it is right that we take them into active dialogue to find the best solutions. I know, Mr. Capuder, you may find this funny. It's just funny to you for different reasons. We are simply trying to argue that it is possible to accurately read this content for the resources that students use and need autonomously. You know, it's possible that someone doesn't like it. I think today's vote will show exactly this point who doesn't like it, given that I will always stand up for students to make active decisions about spending their time, their moment, their period, which is significantly more relaxed than any period later. And if we do not give them the opportunity to be creative here, that they will also be able to afford a certain error with significantly smaller consequences than ever before, and with their competences, which we say should be substantially increased, they will significantly better enter the labour market into the future. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, let us think a little about our young years when we are talking about these content. We do not think that diversity in the thinking of young people is an obstacle to us. For me, it's the enlarging and enriching of my thinking, my correction of what I was able to learn when I was their age. And in this respect, I support the amendments that have been tabled to respect the agreement reached in partnership. And, of course, with the support of you, colleagues and colleagues, I want this amendment to be confirmed by Parliament today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u147	Thank you. Member Rudy Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I have to admit, I don't understand today's debates in my own way. Instead of taking as many scholarships as possible to make it easier for students to study so that they do not have to work, we talk as much as possible about student work. I'd say the world's wrong. In my opinion, students are exploited both by employers and by student services. That they are exploited by employers, I can claim that I myself have accompanied students' travels at the former company, and I know what work students have done - not eight hours, more than eight hours, not six to two hours, but from one, two to twelve and so on. In short, they used them, they used them. Also, student services, when legitimately gaining the right to take advantage of such a high percentage of the share, have never said: "Dear students, you who are working hard guarantee that we have so much and so much of it, and we will offer you, say, a holiday in our home or we will pay you a trip, some education or some part of the resources, say to the mothers of the students. In short, this money has been completely kept to itself and enriched. Students, not by their own fault, but by fault of those who have accepted such a system, also represent unfair competition for workers, workers. Look, the students earned it, at least in this company where I worked, from 110 to 120 thousand tolars, but the worker earned sometimes between 100 and 110 thousand tolars, worked in the same job, but because the benefits were so high and because the student benefits were 10% and later 12%, it is clear that the employer decided to make the most of it, he used the student work. For what purpose? Not with social, certainly not, but with a view to keeping him as much as possible in the end, let us be honest. Today’s government or ministry does not want to stop the student’s work, the student’s work wants to get into some normal framework so that students can work when it’s time for it, it’s time between vacations, every serious student can’t study properly besides work, I can say that with all responsibility. After hard physical work, there are mostly physical works, but you cannot concentrate properly, so today we meet with such a long time of study. I submit that both the government and everyone else are not interested in such a long delay in the study. Instead of getting involved as soon as possible and starting to return to society what has been invested in them so far, that time is constantly increasing and allowing it to be exploited. The government that has drawn up this new law wants nothing more than that these anomalies should be set aside, that we should slowly get on track and that students, with the share they deserve, are funding themselves. However, it is clear to me that this is not enough, and I would expect much more to compete for the fact that, in addition to the share that they will earn themselves, we will also demand from the State and make some suggestions on how to get the additional resources that are certainly necessary to be able to study in peace and quality and to study as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u149	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Member Happy Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. Since it has been said today, and before that, quite a lot of hard words have been said, that it is the abolition of a student's work, the attack on students and so on, I would first explain my attitude towards a student's work. Unfortunately, in Slovenia we are not so rich and students do not have such a favourable social position that they could survive without a student job. From this point of view, I welcome this as the possibility that more students can study, have a higher standard of living easier. But it's true if you put student work on the scale and study is first. Our mission or our goal must be to make it possible for students to study as best as possible so that they do not have to do the occasional work. One of these conditions is scholarships. The scholarships are those that ensure that students are able to attend the study. The other thing I want to explain is that because of this marriage, I don't know how many thousands, ten thousand students. For students, nothing will change, in any case, as far as student work is concerned. It remains the same payment and only the allocation of the concession fee will be different. We're not talking, I'm talking alone, okay? Nothing's going to change for the students. There's going to be the same pay. What's gonna change for the better is that they're gonna get, I don't know, 5,000 scholarships. Someone mentioned earlier that this is hypocrisy because we offer 5,000 scholarships to students who will earn them. It's not like that. In a way they will, but it's better to get the students 5,000 scholarships than to get the student service out of this bitch! And those students who live in difficult situations, of course, could understand that. Is this about revenge for students because they didn't listen to this government or, I don't know, to whom, is 5,000 extra payback scholarships bad? From the circles that are close to the student organisations, I'm listening, "yes, boys, gentlemen, and so on, but now you'll see, now the students will measure your measure." I think in this case, it's an abuse of a student organization, it's a politicization, it's not a majority opinion of students. Last but not least, if we wanted to find out about the majority of the students' opinions, we should probably ask ourselves how many students are coming to the student elections, not 50%, not 40, not 30, but just a little less. Therefore, I have very strong concerns about this opinion, whether this is a representative opinion. We have previously listened to what we would like to give up to fill this fund, pay, copyright fees, I don't know what everything, political tourism and so on, even if it were possible to put that Falcon in, or any other very good investment that has been in the past in today's country. If I finish slowly because I'm running out of time, I think the concept is that this concession fee is being distributed and invested in the scholarship fund. Of course, it is a question of whether this relationship is really ideal, whether it is still possible to think about it and whether it is actually a little different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u151	Thank you. I will inform the three following panellists that time has passed and that the words will not be given to Comrade Milenko Ziherl, colleague Tomaž Šteba and colleague Bojan Starman. The word has a Member of the Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u152	Unlike my speaker, I think that the concept is bad, that it is a tricky reform of the country, which has made a good move for itself, that the state budget has burdened a certain part of the funding that could go to the scholarship, and has given it to the students from their work, and will, as a result, also with this division into such percentages, in some way put an end to or reduce the co-financing that has now taken place in the widest possible spectrum of research activities. You don't think that, as a result, these funds coming from the student work now will come from the country for future student organisation, fig, that's not going to happen. The Media Fund will certainly not support student media and individual ministries in the distribution of money will certainly not have to finance those shares and parts that can now be financed by these student organisations. They will be able to respond to calls for individual projects, but not for the assistance that is now taking place under some general funds which are autonomously, I stress, now autonomously distributed. I'll be happy, Mr. President, if you keep this room quiet, I understand that they're a little tired, and that you won't be counting on me?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u153	No, Mrs Shirca, I am warning other Members and Members, if the debate is to develop, not those who have a word, I will interrupt the meeting, the decision is yours. Mrs. Shirca, please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u154	Certainly it was only a matter of time, Mr Jerovšek, when the students would turn, and I think it is right to renew the scenario that has taken place in the last year, two students. The students undoubtedly became a dangerous interlocutor when they went to the streets, when they raised the issue of tuition, student work concession fees and undoubtedly also the implementation of student reform or the implementation of reforms in the field of study. Of course, their dangers were recognized by the authorities. Mr Drobnič, you yourself are likely to have initiated some measures, undoubtedly in the subconscious long ago, but, however, systematic discrediting of students has begun. As a result, their bargaining power was reduced, and conflicts began to wane. My colleague spoke about the Fifth Column, but I will say that the intolerance and disagreements began to appear and demonstrate to the public, which was not good. They highlighted themselves and today almost the entire discussion of excesses, which undoubtedly have been made in the field of student work or services, and in the public eye there is an image of lazy students who do not want to invest in their own scholarships, let alone their own organisation. They prefer to study and not finance student groups involved in extinguishing, by the way - there is no such thing in there, and there are also societies that are ordered to fire only student homes or apartments where students live. In short, the tactics taken by the authorities were very interesting and allow me one regression in 1968 since 1979, 1971 and 1972, when in the Slovenian space there were key student riots, as said the president of the country, then Tito, when the first students appeared on the streets in Belgrade. He said, don't go over them with the police, but listen, create a dialogue and start talking to them, because there are really problems here. This is also documented in my past studies.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u155	Comrade Jerovšek, last warning, or I will ask you to remove yourself or I will be able to suspend the meeting. You don't want this, please. Be so considerate of the pay phone, Mrs. Shirca, and leave it to her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u156	I've got a few more seconds than you count. You also listened to the student talks by the government or coalition partners, and you agreed with them until the first hearing, and then you played them. And if I go back to 1968, then actually the party also talked to the students and understood their very explicitly exposed problems, which went not only to student issues, but to problems in society in general. But what happened after 1972, after the famous composition of the Faculty of Philosophy, then a block was built in a student settlement, and it was from the money the students themselves provided, and they arranged one playground in a pool or something. I mean, this pattern, I'm saying it's all going through that it's a continuity in the rule of this government with another story that's already been seen. If I go any further than point four when this scenario has been reversed in terms of playing some agreement that we may have heard too much about today, however, I am talking about disassemblying the system when, with these divisions, as they happen, they bring in a subset of a certain autonomy that has controlled one organisation according to the measure it has suited them. This organisation will not, for example, enter the country, when there is a lack of money, of course, organisations, from cultural, educational, media and all others, will turn to the state and the state has the power to decide whether or not to subsidise something, all the power in the creation of a specific policy, but also, of course, autonomy. Not to say that what you've all read here, one more superficial when you've read here, that it's a luxury, it's not a luxury, it's something that meant upgrading a system that was made at the request of students and it was useful to all of us. Those of you who may have also spoken have listened to the information that students' organisations working with their companies and clubs in Slovenia, not only in Ljubljana, because it is not just K4 and Metelkova, but what if you are afraid of it or other forms of organisation. Those who have created and strengthened some organization in their centres across Slovenia have also contributed greatly to returning students to rural areas or places they might have left if they were as dead as they were; if they were not organized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u157	Comrade Jerovšek, allow me to continue the session. Thank you. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u158	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I hope that you will support the amendment, or these amendments, which are part of this article concerning student work, the work of the student organisation, in particular that we will not by one stroke destroy everything that has happened through the student organisation of Slovenia not only in the centres but also in the countryside, in other places. What Mr Drobnič wants is, of course, the complete breakdown of the system and the destruction of the infrastructure of the student organisation. If we did a quick simulation, we'd see what's going to happen, they'd go to hell with the student press, they'd go to hell with student radio stations, they'd go to hell with student clubs, and, of course, all of this will be left to grace and mercy on those who like to manipulate like Mr. Petty Officer, who invents numbers against us, who falsifies the results and lies in our face and laughs at us. In this way it is not possible to talk and it is, in fact, quite understandable that someone, like Mr Marjan Pojbič, is reluctant to support the amendment first signed by Mr Rezman, and I think that something else will happen in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u159	Thank you. Member Joseph Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And it's just my turn. Colleagues and colleagues, I've heard a lot of demagogies today both on one side and on the other. The law itself, I don't think, contributes to the need for so much demagogy. Let me just mention a few details. One of our colleagues said we take student service 10%. No, 5%, if you're talking about 10%. Secondly, one of the colleagues said how the students were organised, how they monitored and so on. I also personally assess that it is necessary for them to be organised and to be organised and to be in the future. And that every time they do, they will react in a timely and correct way to the mistakes that politicians or others make. However, I must remind myself that it is probably the same leadership of the student organisation in 2004 not even the word "muksnilo" when the law on the full taxation of student work was passed. It was amended in December 2004 because it is expected to enter into force with 1.1.2005 by the one adopted in May. Furthermore, one of the colleagues said that it seems that most of us Members of the National Assembly do not even know what we are discussing in specific Article 4 or amendments. Let me tell her I know what this is all about. It's 10% that student work organizers keep for their work. The current legislation has said that 10%, which nominally means about 8 billion per year, is the work of student and student organisations, and 50% keep these job organizers for themselves, as a rule they are student services. The proposal, which was in the original text, is about the same or is the same as that of the eighteen signed fellow Members in the amendment. Otherwise, I was not on this committee or in this coordination, why and how it happened. However, it is only right that the students were organised, and that they will also support one of the amendments in the future, allowing the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the student organisation, the student organisation and anyone else to have such a provision in the third reading, allowing for an actual additional scholarship, including the reallocation of this work of money, since we do not interfere with the student work in this law and the eligibility of the student work, that we have said this with some other law, in what way and where it is taxed or where it does not tax the student work. That is why I will personally, as my colleague Brenčič said, support one of the amendments. This will open this article, which speaks of it. And from this place I also call on those who are involved in this carriage to prepare or prepare a solution that will be as fair as possible for most of the participants in this cake, which is called the student work or the distribution of concession funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u161	Thank you. Member Bojan Kontic has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Chairman. I have a feeling that the only thing that is coordinated in this room is that nothing is coordinated. Not between us, but even in the coalition, this coherence is a little more fragile or on foot than a person would say at first sight. The government wants to eliminate the anomalies with this proposal, but in what way and with what consequences. I have a feeling that the government wants to punish the disobedient, in this case students or student organisations. And I'm afraid he also wants to make an artificial dispute between the unemployed, among the students, among the pensioners, among the unions. Most of these are on the road, some literally, and some on the protests. That's what they have in common. And I'm afraid that's how the government wants to solve things. It is obvious that students are not going to the student elections, because also residents or citizens and citizens are not going to the national elections, but especially not with pleasure, but these discussions that we have are likely to lead to a slightly higher participation in the next parliamentary elections, at least I hope that this will be the case. Students to share in the way that this was done at the first reading, when we said 'good students are regularly studying and quickly studying, and those slightly lazyer ones are still working together', so it was understood at the previous meeting when we discussed the first reading. And when we ask ourselves why students work, it's probably not because they can't sleep in the morning or because they don't want any more fun in a hard and long-term study. They probably need that money, and they need it because they don't have enough scholarships. With this measure, it was said that 5,000 scholarships would be awarded. What is 5,000 scholarships for the number of students who are? We would arrange to grant 5,000 scholarships according to the criterion, but I am already afraid of what would be the criteria for the award of scholarships, and we would grant some kind of charity to the rest of them, perhaps even social assistance, but they would be prohibited from taking proper care of themselves. So the amendment is certainly to support Article 4. And another comparison was very interesting, a colleague earlier said, "In our company we did this, we broke legislation, we didn't respect anything." Why didn't you act when you were in this company? You've been waiting for you to come to the National Assembly and now you'll be taking action, but you didn't hope before? Like in the previous system, many did not dare to do anything, nothing to do when democracy happened, and then we all became courageous. At that time, it was also time to take action, and the anomalies needed to be removed, but not by punishing everything because you wanted to correct a single mistake. He was an example: 110,000 gets a student to work, used, a month of work already, indeed, that he can be used, and a worker in the same place gets exactly that much pay, but of course the costs are lower. Ask yourself, maybe it's a mother and a daughter or a mother and a son who work for this money to put together and cover all the costs they have during the month, when their son or daughter is studying, and the mother must somehow survive this family, and it's very modern that we now have single-parent families in Slovenia, and not a whole lot of problems. So, it is not possible to simplify these matters very much, and I would like to stress once again, let us not work artificially from the unemployed and students of those who do not care about work. Besides, we say, "Let's get students to college in regular time, fast." They go to college, and then there's no work. Why do they have to study quickly? Eventually, they know there's no work. Somewhere else, it will be necessary to make individual receptions so that students will be motivated to graduate because they will know that they will eventually have a job and will be able to get a regular job. This is certainly not the case in the current arrangement. It is therefore right to say that there are individual errors, that they need to be systematically corrected, but it is not meaningful to punish everyone in this way. And when we say that the students are exploited; why then defend this exploitation so frailly. This does not happen if someone is used to defend this arrangement with all four of them so that they can continue to exploit it. Change is needed, but very careful and thoughtful. And when we talk about partnership, let us also bring this partnership to life, both in politics and in particular between the social partners.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u163	Thank you. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. I would like to base the fourth amendment on Article 4. The Social Democrats' Group tabled this amendment in line with an agreement with the trade unions, where we introduced the word "appropriate employment and/or other similar work" narrowed down the area where there might be misunderstandings when the unemployed should take any form of humanitarian work and where they saw the possibility of unlawfully forcing the unemployed to take on humanitarian work, which in some circumstances could prove to them that it is not humanitarian work, but it is the work of an organisation dealing with social, pedagogical or cultural work. That is why I expect this amendment to receive support, and thus I am responding to the previously defiant evidence of non-dialogue with the social partners. Now, let me just quickly, because there will be more to be said about other amendments, I will only touch on the discussions that I am following with regard to the financing of student organisations, and I am thinking in particular about the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which is a representative organization of the Joint Students. If anyone meets five students and asks them, I'll meet five other students, and they'll tell me otherwise. If we have read the letters, then it would be good to read a letter signed by a student with a name and a surname that informs us that out of 700 students' families there are 400 of them who are members of an organised form of student activity and see in the reduced financial possibilities of the student organisation also reduced opportunities for themselves. I have asked the question of subsidised student beds for students' children as a special question, but the Ministry of Labour of the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Higher Education has been served as a hot bone, and there are still no systemic solutions, and this is regulated by other things. But if we're talking about increasing our scholarship fund with these funds, it's interesting how these scholarships grow. It started with a thousand scholarships, then they said two thousand, now there's five thousand. That's three billion. Nice and good, but what if I said another word at the expense of everything financed by a student organisation, and I couldn't imagine a quality student life without it. I can't imagine living without books published by Beletrin, without books published by Liter, I can't even imagine living in Maribor without Kibla co-financed by Maribor students, and many more. But, of course, in this country, reading culture is low, there is a need to save money in this country, it probably doesn't matter that students have developed cultural life, that they have their own announcements that they have their own radio stations. All of this is for others or for some just something that they can wave over. And that's why I can't agree to a different way of co-financing. Of course, there's a very clever maneuver in the back. And all those who say that we are Members and Members, who do not agree with government proposals, populists, the most populist of all is the government, who wants to hide everything for the scholarships and that students are against the scholarship. As far as student work and good students are concerned, the Bologna process will indeed require three years of intensive study from the student. I wonder how the government will make sure that students can have enough to study so intensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u165	Thank you. Member Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! Among other things, the Minister said that the new law lays down the obligation of the recipient of the monetary compensation to accept the appropriate work, including humanitarian and similar unpaid work, or that his remuneration is reduced. If you were someone like that, I believe you'd be sitting somewhere in the cold watching the World Cup in football, which is what most of the party of the Slovenian Democratic Party is doing. I have a question for my colleague Pojbič, who has so vehemently claimed that 10% of the concession fee is unknown in Europe. I hope that all three coalition members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, who are now listening, know this answer. I'd like to know him very much, I'm sorry, time has saved you again and you won't be able to show your knowledge. In his performance, Mr Pojbič read or strengthened his performance with one letter, received from a senior Ljubljana University official, whom he forgot to say at the end of his letter that he was a young man in New Slovenia. We have received this letter, and we do not boast about it here and thereby strengthen our knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u167	Thank you, Mr. Zagorec. Please give peace, distinguished visitors. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, Members, Government representatives, Visitors, Visitors! If at first I have to justify the competence to discuss the student work related to these amendments or the law that we are considering, I want to say that I know the student issue and life well. I have three students, and what they do at home, even through a student service, is all. If I can give them a little commendation or praise, in the 11 years of study, if I count all the study years, there was no repetition and they are excellent students. And once again, they're working through a student service. In doing so, I would like to say that I am not against the student work here, especially the coalition Members. But I would also like to say this in the introduction, the first scholarshipee, in my opinion, is the parent. And we didn't talk about it anywhere today. We're all just waiting to get a fried chicken on the plate, and if we're that willing to eat it, we'll eat it. It would be foolish for a government or coalition that would not choose students as its partners, and I think it is rude to report to the government today that it is working against students. Since there was so much talk about student work, I've analyzed the current situation at "speed" and I'll only tell you a few facts. Students and students were set up as non-profit organisations or public service in the public interest to work for students and employees, not to fill their pockets with their tax-intensive work. The largest of them, for illustration only, was once owned by the University of Maribor, owned by a handful of individuals of one family years ago. Among the fastest growing industries in our country has been the activity of student services in recent years. The balance sheet of these companies shows that net sales revenues have increased by around 30% per year in recent years. Although this is an activity that serves the public interest, the average annual growth in net return of capital in student services has been higher than 35% over the last four years. In recent years, the number of student services in Slovenia has increased significantly faster than the number of manufacturing - service companies. There is also money laundering in student services. Student work is paid, unfortunately not so much for students, and that is why I stand here for students, but rather for student services that provide work. Thus, often money resulting from student work is placed in portfolio investments, rather than being used to improve student’s study, residence, leisure or activity. One of the main problems of the student work I see myself is abuse and therefore something needs to be done in this area. And that is why I support the Government's proposal, which I hope will at least ease this issue. It can be a classic black job, it can be a job on the basis of another person's passport, such as the one doing the job, it can be a fictitious money transfer, and often also a non-payment of earnings to the student who has done the job. The common point of all these abuses is the fact that they are very difficult to detect, prove and therefore also sanction, as they are not often reported. Student work, it's been exposed once or twice today, and let me do it again. Student work also means unfair competition in the labour market. In the parliamentary debate last May, we drew attention to the cheap labour force, which allows for lower taxation of student labour. Today, in this debate, I do not think that it is right or that I am interpreting this as a misunderstanding of the logic of the Slovenian army or a misunderstanding of the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to NATO. Those who associate this, I think they are closer to the logic of NATO, closer to the logic of the Slovenian army, that they are closer to the logic of the Yugoslav human army. I am interested in, I do not have data in my hands, I really think that this National Assembly should have information about what proportion of revenue the Student Organisation of Slovenia actually devotes to its programmes, which I also call quality programs, maybe someone has this information, I don't have it, talk about the extremely low proportion and don't want to cause any problems or injustices to anyone. I conclude by saying that I am truly sorry that at the moment there are some turbulences in the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which is a partner with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that they simply cannot agree or elect their true leader. The Maribor students, as I know, did not support the candidate. I only sincerely wish to the students, to tell the students that they will elect their leadership as soon as possible and that negotiations with the government will proceed as soon as possible, and I am sure that they will reach quality agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. I will continue here, where my fellow Member, Joseph Horvat, began. It is indeed a great empire that has been built throughout this period of the rule of the Liberal Democracy, and I also understand their views today when they want to defend all that they have actually allowed to happen. To say that this government coalition is not in favour of students is, of course, completely pointless, but here it is necessary to say that we have actually adopted a law in this National Assembly, in which we wrote that both degrees of the Bologna study are free, which was not applicable under the law that was adopted at the time, Comrade Rob, when you were Prime Minister, when you wrote that one year of the second degree will have to be paid, namely that this college will be chosen by those who will be forgiven in that percentage. This is corrected that in Slovenia food is provided for students, this probably does not need to be repeated again, but this is a fact. And the fact that the number of scholarships is increasing. See, in 2004, the Student Organization, called the ŠOS, and services through concession gathered 8 billion Slovenian tolars. These are, say, the four budgets of the municipality from which I come, and this municipality represents 1% by territory and by population of the size of Slovenia. 8 billion Slovenian tolars. Of this it took half to operate a student organisation and, say here in these meetings, it has been published that the president of the student organisation, by the way, Mr Edwin Makuc, has 1.3 million gross wages, says so much in Ljubljana, it is said, then it is data and I do not know whether we really have to defend this position in this country in this way. Do you think it is really necessary for students to be paid extra during their studies? I don't think most Slovenian students think so. The last time was at Trenji's meeting, where Mr Rebolj quickly calculated that 80 billion Slovenian tolls would turn over the student's work, 80 billion money, to make it worth 150 thousand dollars' gross salary, as much as they would get in a large company in Slovenia, 46 thousand jobs, and if they paid their contributions and they would be scholarships of 500 thousand tolars per year - 60 thousand scholarships. This is one of the union presidents, Reboj, who spoke publicly on television. On the other hand, Mr Semolič is attending student demonstrations, and Mr Gaber is surprised at this confusion that we do not all understand that this is right. So something's wrong! But look, we're not discussing a student work cut today. Student work, thank God it is, so be it. There's a lot of people who need it. Perhaps if there are more scholarships, there will be fewer scholarships, we are simply discussing the fact that from this student work, from this work, which the state is giving up in the framework of tax duties, more of this money is going to be spent on scholarships. And I don't understand students who wouldn't generally advocate such solutions. I just don't understand, because both SOS and student services are basically exploiting the students who work. So this is one form of modern exploitation, whether we admit it or not. That is so, and if we put more of this into the fund, then Mr Potsch, it cannot be revenge, what you said or by Mr Gabr, punishment. While you say that if you would - your proposal is that if it is already a matter of revenge, it is within 10% as you suggest. We in the government coalition have decided that it is necessary to provide for the scholarship fund if we are to achieve some effect, a greater part. That is why it seems reasonable for us to adopt such a law as is now being prepared, and it will certainly be one of these very complex systems and some deviation of the system that the previous ruling sets in Slovenia have allowed, in some way, through this repair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Members of the coalition, and above all NSIs, speak of this intervention of the student's work as that crucial bed of evil, corruption, wealth, slave labor, and, as my colleague Horvat said, even money laundering. Mr Petty Officer is also presented as a great liberator in this area. On the other hand, they skillfully impose a discussion on the scholarship fund and the scholarship as some noble motive in order to reach out to this escaped system of intervention, with all the positive extensions and also the shortcomings that I will not talk about. But here we have to demystify this concern for scholarships. Basically, scholarships should not be provided from this share of student work intervention. This is basically never meant for this and it's a big hypocrisy. It is true that in these discussions students have also agreed to this and, let's just say, this can be acceptable for everyone. The main effect of this novel is the impact of the autonomy of student organisation. In order for the Tiny to be a liberator and to secure these glorious scholarships, everything that has been going on over the decades will be destroyed. Mr. Sok thinks it was some kind of LDS fortress. I myself was one of those people who, in the 1980s, with a student organization, agreed that even before the parties were created, it was possible to set up independent student organisations. These have taken over the media and have taken over the management of these services. Since then things have been going their way, and the student organization has largely financed Demos' activities as a political association, if you want us to talk about it, and this has not been disputed for anyone. Today this is controversial because you cannot control this segment of society and punish them in this way. The effect is not only in redistributing these funds, but - as has been said here skillfully - you have not chosen the right representatives, so we will make sure that things are, as they were, in front of the state and in front of the preacher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u173	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u174	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a replica of Mr. School's performance. He didn't understand me. I talked about college all the time. And there's something I'd like to tell you here. I thought you'd give me an answer about what percentage of the student organization Slovenia's revenue is intended for its programmes, which, once again, are of quality. But I also believe this, Mr Školč, that students are forced to work, and now I will say, especially the Pomurian students, because in your time when you had authority, you made a rule that assigns students a point of residence in a student's home only up to 100 kilometers. It is said that if a student comes from a distance that is more than 100 kilometers from Ljubljana, he does not get any additional points. This means, in other words, that the Pomurian students are not wanted to study at the University of Ljubljana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u175	Thank you. Another replica, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I don't know if I understand Mr. Skolcz correctly, but if that's true what he said, then it's very wrong and just shows how to change it. He says student organisations financed political parties. It is totally unacceptable, it is said, that we really need to look here in this area to see whether this is not the case today. And if this is happening as he said he was organizing students and helping them with advice on how to do these things, then there is something really wrong here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr. Skolcz, there are no replicas on the replica, but you have a chance of discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u178	Very briefly. I wouldn't expect Mr. Sok to admit it if he understood. I was talking about the '80s that there would be no misunderstanding, and then the laws would regulate it accordingly. I believe Mr. Horvath is for student work. And I was talking about him being against the autonomy of student organisation. We didn't get along with that. Reports of student organisations, what they do with the money they receive in one way or another, get each year, if they are interested, on the Internet or in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u180	During the 13th Amendments to Article 41, I would like to draw attention to the fifth amendment, which is of a nature such as to make the beneficiaries equal to the beneficiaries of monetary social assistance with the beneficiaries of a financial compensation which may refuse work, except in cases where the job offered is not lower than two educational levels. I think I need to draw attention to this, or forgive my ignorance, but I thought that the president of the Slovenian Student Organisation was Miha Ulčar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you won't. Anyone else want to join this article? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate and move on to Article 6 and to the debate on the two amendments, the first being put by a group of Members in the first-signed Mr Rezman and the second- tabled by the Group of Social Democrats. Please. Who wants a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate and move on to Article 19 and to the debate on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group of Members. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I conclude the debate and turn to the debate on Article 36 and on the amendments of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats, the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia and the three amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Who wants a word? Nobody. Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u182	Thank you. I would like to draw attention to the second amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, by which we want to correct the text that limits student work and we want to see that the part that introduces the restriction removed from the amended bill, as adopted by the Committee. That is why we expect this amendment to receive support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u183	Thank you. Anyone else to this article and to these amendments? Nobody. I conclude the debate and move on to Article 55 and to the debate on the amendment to this article tabled by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Please, anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The 12th indent of Article 70 of the Law is, according to the new law, really cruel. I have already warned the proposaler in coordination that it is dangerous that the desired target will be turned into abuse in the opposite direction, as has been the abuse now. If the implementation of this law is confirmed, I expect this to be rectified.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u185	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u186	When we talked to the Social Democrats about this law being very restrictive, Article 55 is just a confirmation of restrictiveity. That is why we have tabled an amendment by the Social Democrats to delete those parts of this article that are the most cruel of all those who are actually the job seekers, the unemployed are the most affected. Indeed, the purpose of the employment plan is to anticipate the ways and opportunities for the unemployed. Here in this article, which was adopted and completed at the meeting of the parent working body, it is of course written down what the unemployed person must do or when the institution ceases to keep an unemployed person in the register of unemployed persons and persons involved in the active employment policy programme. This is cleaning records, of course, and this can also be reducing statistical data. Therefore, it seems to us that at least some of these definitions should be drawn from both the parent work body and the proposed work body. This is the 10th, 11th and 12th indents that talk about when a job seeker loses this right to be included in the register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u187	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. I conclude the debate and move on to Article 60 and to the debate on the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to Article 62 and to the amendments tabled by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats and the substantively equal amendment of the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy and the Group of Members with the first-signed Mr Rezman. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to Article 64 and to the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u188	Thank you. In the opening recital, we tried to convince the bill's proposer to take into account the composition of the board of the institution that would allow a three-partite system and thus better negotiate all those involved in the operation of the institution. This proposal, which the Social Democrats have tried to implement already on the labour force, has not been adopted, but I would like to stress once again that we are advocating the possibility of tripartite representation in the world, so that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia appoints four members, four members of the state-level employers' association and four members would appoint trade unions representing the country. If you look at our proposed structure, it's 12 members plus 13. If we are talking about partnership, then we have the same structure here: government, employers' associations and trade unions. For good functioning, for good agreement between the social partners, it is also right in the management and other bodies owned by public institutions that the structure is tripartite and that it does not have any majority share. Why the government has to provide a majority through its members, it is perfectly clear, but if it is talking about partnership, if it is up to her to negotiate, if it is up to the dialogue she likes to refer to, then the coalition will support this amendment of the Social Democrats. For the Social Democrats, we believe that dialogue and partnership always depend on one who has power. And the government has power. This is also true for negotiating with other social partners, including for negotiating with the student organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that. Answer to the amendment to this Article first. The Economic Social Council is a place where social partners agree on the principle of equality. The Employment Office Council is a management world. Given that the Minister is also, in fact, directly responsible for the functioning of the institution, look at the Court of Auditors and the irregularities that appear at the Employment Office, in fact, the Minister is directly responsible. That's why it makes sense to put it that way. In the world of the institution proposed by the government, there is no government with its majority representatives. But they're all three partners. So, we're responding in the right way and the right way. Dear Members and Members! I have answered both substantive and technical questions. Now the final thought. The law before you is good. It probably doesn't match all the small partisan groups that don't want things to be arranged. It responds to the needs of those facing hardship, unemployment, those who are hard to get to work and who are working hard. This is also confirmed by the public opinion. And the poll I presented today. As the law is adopted, it is your responsibility, honourable Members and Members. This is not the responsibility of Members and Members of the ruling coalition. I hereby urge all Members and Members to keep in mind the unemployed, their hardships and the law with which we deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u191	Thank you, Minister. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 7th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.50. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the other hand, the proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the Insurance Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. For a moment, we'll wait for the government representatives to take their place. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation, mag. Signa Lavrič, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u192	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I'm going to introduce a law on changes and additions to the insurance law. This law was confirmed by the Government at its 69th regular meeting in April this year and then forwarded to the National Assembly for Review following a regular procedure. The basic objectives of the amendment are to bring into line with the rules of the European acquis, in particular the directive governing financial conglomerates and the directive establishing the new organisational structure of committees, the EU Financial Services Commission. However, certain amendments also eliminate minor non-compliances with certain other Directives relating to insurance. An important amendment to the bill is the creation or treatment of compensatory provisions. Given that insurance companies will have to apply international accounting standards from 1.1.2007 and taking into account the fact that at the same time a directive which provides for the compulsory establishment of insurance-type compensatory provisions is still in force, the draft law proposes a solution which provides for the creation of compensatory provisions only in the insurance-type of credit insurance. However, compensatory provisions for other types of insurance that will become excessive by the application of this law will have to be decommissioned by the insurance companies by 1.1.2007. The draft law also provides for amendments to the provisions defining the elements of the basic and additional capital of the insurance undertaking and the financial statements of the insurance undertakings. These changes are necessary for the entry into force of new Slovenian accounting standards, which have also introduced certain changes in the area of capital. A very important change is also the proposal for a new definition of the type of business that an insurance undertaking can carry out in addition to insurance. A solution is proposed allowing the insurance undertaking to also carry out a specific limited form of reinsurance and brokerage operations for the purchase or sale of mutual funds' investment vouchers. Such an expansion of business will, in our opinion, strengthen the competitive position of insurance undertakings in the wider insurance market, in particular taking into account the fact that such transactions can be carried out by insurance undertakings in accordance with legislation in other EU Member States. In addition, the proposal also eliminates certain nomotechnical deficiencies, uncertainties or legal gaps that have been demonstrated in its implementation in practice. We estimate that these solutions and the proposed changes are appropriate and necessary. I would also point out that in the preparation process the law was in line with the representatives of the insurance industry, it is said, the Slovenian Insurance Association, as well as the supervisory institution, the Insurance Supervisory Agency. The Government therefore proposes to the National Assembly that the proposed law be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u193	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! At its 19th meeting, on 6.6.2006, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and acceptance. The Committee received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service and comments on the series of articles. The Committee has taken most of its comments into account in the drafting and adoption of its amendments set out below. Amendments to Articles 42, 44, 79 and 91 of the proposed Act of 31.5. were further forwarded to the Committee and amendments to Articles 46 and 100 and to Articles 47 and 102 thereafter were tabled. The representative of the Government stressed that the law is in line with the Slovenian Insurance Association and the Insurance Supervisory Agency. The most discussed were the amendments to Articles 32, 47, 79 and 102 of the Law. The proposed law introduces a solution in Article 32 that, as a separate criterion in relation to life, accident and health insurance, exceptionally, the personal circumstances of the sex may be taken into account where insurance undertakings are used as a decisive factor in risk assessment on the basis of relevant and accurate actuarial and statistical data. This is where the legislative and legal service commented, which recalls the validity of the general principle of non-discrimination in relation to sex both in the Treaty establishing the European Community and in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government's representative further explained that this gender distinction in insurance was still valid until now and it is not about introducing a new solution. In spite of that additional explanation of the proposed solution, the discussion on the provision of Article 32 expressed an opinion on the opinion of inadmissibility, since such a solution is contrary to the Treaty establishing the European Community and the Slovenian Constitution and the applicable law. A proposal for an amendment to the Committee would be tabled in the debate to delete the new Article 7 paragraph 83 of the current law, as provided for in Article 32 of the proposed amendment. However, the Committee did not support the amendment. However, since, according to the assessment of the majority of the discussers, the provision of Article 32 needs to be further examined and, if further discussion at the meeting of the National Assembly is also necessary to amend or supplement the amendment, the Committee adopted the amendment to Article 32 below, which amends paragraph 7 to take into account the personal situation of the sex in the insurance type of health insurance provided for in the proposed solutions. Then we discussed the provisions of Articles 47 and 102 of the Regulation on the obligation to set up countervailing provisions that apply only to the insurance type of credit insurance and the other countervailing provisions should be transferred through the income of insurance undertakings to capital by 1.1.2007 when we move on to the application of international accounting standards. Here we have considered the proposal of a group of Social Democrats that this compensatory scheme, this money created in this way, should be directly transferred to the reserves of insurance companies, but government representatives thought that this must be carried over as income and, accordingly, the ability to use a three-year delay also to offset the tax obligations for the budget, which is about 700 million tolls per year. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered these amendments and adopted the amendments of the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party, the Democratic Party of Pensioners to Articles 42, 44, 79 and 91, but did not accept the amendments of the parliamentary group of Social Democrats to Articles 74 and 102. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the individual articles of the bill and received all the articles. We propose that we accept these amendments, as well as that this law also approves the national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u195	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u196	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, those who still insist on the 3rd item of the agenda and have not spent all the "munition" in the previous one. The 2002 legislation on insurance brought about changes mainly in the area of countervailing provisions. However, the basic purpose of the 2004 amendment and the 2004 amendment was to further harmonise Slovenian legislation with the European legal order in the field of insurance, which adopt provisions on capital adequacy and insurance, to new regulation of the operation of insurance intermediaries, bankruptcy and liquidation of insurance undertakings. The 2004 Insurance Act also touched on the area of countervailing provisions. The proposed amendments and additions to the Insurance Act or insurance companies seek to bring them into line with the European legal order, by means of directives which, and in respect of which the time limit for transposition into the Slovenian legal order has expired following the preparation of the last novelty of the Insurance Act, as well as directives transposing certain amendments, including the 2004 amendments. The provisions on the establishment or treatment of compensatory provisions and technical provisions for the risk of major damage shall also be amended, while the obligation to set up compensatory provisions is maintained only in the insurance type of credit insurance, and the types of transactions that may be carried out by insurance undertakings in addition to insurance transactions shall be defined. The Regulation provides that balancing reserves are no longer an item of technical provisions, but, according to their content, they are among the items of capital. Therefore, the law in question provides for a solution requiring the creation of compensatory provisions only in the insurance type of credit insurance. However, any compensatory provisions other than compensatory provisions for credit insurance that will become excessive from the date of the application of this law will have to be reduced to 0 by the insurance companies by 1.1.2007. Amendments to the Insurance Act also seek to regulate the creation of so-called other technical provisions. In the discussion at the home work body, the most concerns were addressed to the solution that, as a separation criterion in relation to life, accident and health insurance, exceptional consideration could be given to personal circumstances, gender, where insurance undertakings are used as a decisive factor in risk assessment on the basis of relevant and accurate actuarial and statistical data. In doing so, the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out the validity of the general principle of non-discrimination according to sex, where research is only possible on the basis of statistics and actuarial data. All of this could lead to further discrimination and it was also stressed that there are not yet adequate and accurate actuarial and statistical data available to insurance companies. After careful consideration, we have also signed an amendment to this article in the Slovenian People's Party's Group and will continue to support it. As mentioned above, this practice or practice has so far been used by insurance companies in the conclusion of both health and other insurance. In the debate on the Committee, attention was also paid to the amendments tabled that proposed deleting Article 47 and recasting Article 102 by transferring the compensatory provisions on 31.12.2006 among the reserves intended to cover the losses of insurance undertakings. As a result of the use of IFRSs, no Member State of the European Union should prohibit the establishment of compensatory provisions and should not be necessary because none of the Slovenian insurance companies currently traded their securities on the organised market of the Member States of the European Union. In the parliamentary group, we accept the government's assurance that it will advocate that funds from the breakdown of these provisions in insurance companies where the government acts as a direct or indirect owner will be transferred to the capital item and not to the management and supervisory boards or dividends. In our view, the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will fully support the relevant solutions to the dilemma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ambassadors and Members of the Government! In the DeSUS Group of Members, we will support the government's proposal for an insurance law, which is included in the parliamentary procedure. In the field of insurance, the government novelty introduces rules or guidelines for the European acquis, which means that it is a matter of harmonising our legislation with the European Directive. The solutions offered by the 106-Article proposal relate solely to the creation of compensatory provisions in the insurance type of credit insurance. All other forms of reservations will become too large and insurance companies will have to destroy them by 2007. These amendments and additions are certainly based on the international accounting standards envisaged, among which the standard covers the area of insurance contracts, which provides that the countervailing provisions no longer constitute the item of technical provisions, but fall within the content between the items of capital. Thus, these standards require harmonisation and uniformity of the use of all Member States of the European Union. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we believe that the precise definition of the elements of the basic and additional capital of the insurance undertaking, the transparency of the financial statements and the definition of the type of business should take into account the principle of equal treatment that insurance undertakings may carry out, the possibility of specific forms of integration, intervention in the purchase and sale of investment vouchers or in the sale of investment vouchers of mutual funds. In our Group of Members, we believe that such a transformation of balancing provisions is necessary to ensure more efficient development and strengthening of the value of insurance, comparability with European insurance companies, safety and quality of services or offers. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware of the importance of the stability of the Slovenian financial system, so we need to make it possible for the fast-growing funds of insurance companies, mainly from long-term reservations, to play a more effective role, not to take into account the ownership structure of insurance companies. We are confident that the decommissioning of these insurance provisions represents a variable solution and transfer of these to capital items, as we know that Slovenian insurance companies have obtained relatively high level of countervailing provisions compared to Europeans. Thus, the projected financial impact of tax revenues, the payment of tax over three years amounts to SIT 700 million per year and SIT 2.1 billion over a four-year period, represents a large budget inflow. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that, within the framework of the compensatory provisions, the transparency and efficiency of the capital structure of insurance undertakings is introduced in terms of increasing both the available capital and the capital adequacy of insurance undertakings. At the same time, we warn and stress that it is important for insurance companies not to forget the insurance profession and its mission in their desire for profit. As we have already said in the introduction, the DeSUS Members will support the amendment of the Insurance Act, which represents one of the broad economic laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u199	Mr Srečko Hvauc will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u200	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act. The new law provides for the establishment or treatment of balancing provisions and technical provisions for the risk of major damage, terminating the establishment of balancing provisions in all insurance types, except for the type of credit insurance. The current balance sheet situation must include insurance companies among the available capital items, thereby increasing this capital and increasing capital adequacy. In doing so, they will not be able to avoid an increase in the tax base on corporate income tax and the same principle applies to banks and investment firms when applying international accounting standards. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the harmonisation of the law with European rules, in particular Directives 2002/87 and 2005/1. This is a complement to the individual and consolidated supervision of supervised persons, such as banks, insurance companies, reinsurance companies, pension companies, brokerage companies and management companies, where these are part of the financial conglomerate. In addition, the information to be transmitted to the European Commission by Member States shall be clarified. We also support the definition of transactions which insurance companies can carry out in addition to insurance transactions. It is also possible for insurance undertakings to manage intervention in the purchase or sale of investment coupons for mutual funds. In our Group of Members, we also support provisions allowing insurance companies to take into account the personal circumstances of the sex when concluding life, accident and health insurance. Such arrangements shall allow each insurer to be treated against the risk it presents to the insurance undertaking. Different lifespans also allow for a different amount of the insurance premium. We believe that it is right to apply a fundamental principle in insurance, a fair, objective and non-discriminatory treatment of individual risks. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the proposed changes are necessary or create conditions for greater competitiveness and further development of insurance services. That is why we will support the amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u201	Thank you. Mr Marko Pavliha will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Representative of the Ministry! Insurance law is certainly one of the most difficult sectors of law in general, where the insurance economy, actuarialism, legal rules, technical sciences are intertwined and could still be listed. Therefore, in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we anticipate and hope that both the professional and industry have participated in the creation of a novel as important and difficult law as the Insurance Act. And as we have been informed, it was a novel - and this is positive - a predebate within the framework of the Slovenian Insurance Association. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support the goals aimed at achieving novelties, aligning with the acquis communityair, new arrangements for the creation of technical provisions and compensatory provisions for the risk of major damage, then defining the type of business that an insurance undertaking can carry out in addition to insurance and a whole range of other nominal technical deficiencies. In doing so, we regret that this last part has not been done more consistently, because in the end I will say something that has passed through the bailout committee; we cannot continue to amend, but the ministry of such absurdities that are emerging could still be taken into account. However, in Slovenia's Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that the proposaler did not consider the solution to the decommissioning of balancing reservations the most. In fact, the compensatory provisions are the last financial ones, you might say, to provide for future and catastrophic unforeseen damage, in which cases the insurance company can still pay damages to its insurers and avoid the worst - to go bankrupt. Evidence of this is the latest disasters, such as hurricanes, terrorist actions and could also be listed, which many reinsurance undertakings and insurance companies have hesitated to do, particularly because they did not have adequate compensatory provisions. Therefore, in my view and in our view, it is unacceptable that these countervailing provisions may be distributed among shareholders, as this is evidence that these insurance provisions, which are in the function of timely balancing the economic risk, belong to the insurers. And even in the event of liquidation, this asset would not have gone to the shareholders, but would have gone to the insurers. And if we take a concrete example, if we break down Triglav's and Sava's reinsurance companies, which together are supposed to be good at 16 billion balancing reserves, it means that about 4 billion tax dollars will have to be paid for the corporate income tax. Who will suffer as a result - of course, insurance companies and thus reinsurance companies will have no choice but to raise premiums as a result. With regard to the other cases, we have tabled three amendments to Article 32 or Article 83 of the original law. I'll talk a little bit more about these amendments later when we talk about them. Let me say that they refer, for the first time, to an unnecessary time limit for the termination of the life insurance contract - i.e. this is prescribed in the European Directive, and we already have a bond code. The second amendment concerns the mandatory components of the insurance contract. In fact, it is absolutely unnecessary to disclose in the insurance contract all the obligations of the insurance undertaking, such as the reimbursement of invested assets, but not only those obligations which the insurance undertaking is obliged to pay in the event of an insurance case. Well, the third amendment refers to the exception when it is really possible to consider sex as a factor of "risk management" or risk assessment. Finally, perhaps some kind remarks, but what is really absurd is to mention the new Article 14, paragraph 10. It's a completely incomprehensible dictatorship. In fact, it says that the insurance company can also conduct insurance transactions indirectly. The indirect way in the insurance jargon does not mean anything, but even less means the syntagma of 'optional quota reinsurance'. Well, that would suggest we put an end to it. Then, for example, Article 121 reads again that the insurance company on the securities of a covered asset or a covered fund must not describe the lien right, but on other assets it can and also the limitation of co-insurance is meaningless, but time is running out, perhaps something more informal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u203	Thank you. Mr Franc Horvat will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The novelty of the Insurance Act for the Social Democrats Group is not disputed in the work which means adapting EU regulations, nor in extending the range of activities and insurance products. Coordination has also been carried out in the framework of partnership. The issue of regulation or a solution to one of the biggest changes in the law remained open, this is already mentioned in the provision of compensation. The Group of Members proposed an addition to Article 47 to the Article 47 for the purpose of retaining compensatory provisions in the interest of the safety and development of insurance undertakings, as long as possible. The amendment was rejected by the government’s categorical argument that, given the adoption of international accounting standards with the amendment of the company law, this simply cannot be done or would be contrary to regulation in the European Union with the exception of credit insurance. We accept that argument. According to our assessment, the amendment to Article 102 of the bill was unduly rejected, under which insurance undertakings should transfer compensatory provisions after compulsory decommissioning between reserves. This would ensure the deliberate use of compensatory provisions in favour of the safety and development of insurance undertakings. It is also important to avoid the taxation of countervailing provisions. This was business sense and right not to say ethically to the insurers who created these reservations through premiums and not owners, including the state or the managers or the administration of insurance companies. Our aim is and remains to ensure that our insurance companies in the EU's open market and for the development and penetration of our insurance companies into new markets, while we must recognise that we are late, the funds created by compensatory provisions are fully geared towards reserves or capital, and to prevent any part of these assets from spilling into the consumption of insurance companies or owners, including countries. Unfortunately, the amendment could not be tabled because this 102nd article had not been opened and the problem remained open. In addition to the security and enhancement of the capital adequacy of insurance undertakings, the direction of the compensatory provisions directly and in particular through the taxation of the reduction would result in a higher price for the sale of State shares in insurance undertakings and a less likely increase in premiums in the future to cover the potential or likely risks. In fact, let me conclude with a question to the Secretary of State, which has already been mentioned, at the meeting of the parent working body, to ensure that the government, as owner or co-owner, will endeavour or act in a way that actually happens by unscathed reservations coming into capital, but the question is how this will happen and what will happen in those insurance undertakings where the state is not the owner or co-owner. The question is very specific and I ask the Secretary of State for an answer. It refers to the provision of the second paragraph of Article 102, which states that the transfer of unallocated reserves between the items of additional capital is ordered. However, my question is whether this is going to happen automatically, so directly, by spilling this raw information into capital - then, of course, the matter is fine - whether it will also be taxed. Of course, then the problem remains open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u205	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. Good-bye. Mr President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament. In the New Slovenia Group, we agree with the proposed amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. The proposed amendments and additions seek to achieve alignment with the European acquis, namely Directive 2002/87, which primarily relates to conglomerates, and Directive 2005/1. The main substantive changes, which we also support in the New Slovenia Group, relate to changes in the area of balancing reserves. According to the approximate data we have for 2005, we had 33% of the balance sheet in Slovenia in September 2005. Of this, there were 17 billion compensatory provisions on so-called remaining credit insurances, which are said to be more than half. The 16 billion remaining balancing reserves will be allocated to income by saying that 8 billion countervailable reserves were above the ceiling, which means that taxes have already been paid for these 8 billion so that the profit tax is paid only from the other 8 billion reserves. In the New Slovenia Group, we are absolutely committed to the fact that the distribution of profits resulting from the transfer of balancing reserves is decided by the owners. We cannot agree with the claims made by those who say that these are insurance assets if they have paid higher premiums due to compensatory provisions. It is necessary to know that there is great competition on the insurance market and that insurance is sold only by those with lower premiums. In Novi Slovenije we also advocate that the profits generated as a result of the partial cancellation of the compensatory provisions should not be allocated to salaries, prizes to supervisory committees and dividends. Wherever we have any influence as a coalition, we will strive consistently to allocate as many of these funds as possible to the capital adequacy of insurance undertakings, which are very low or at the European level at the lower limit of eligibility. It may also be interesting to note that in all the years since 1994, when reservations began to be made, we have not once used them for the purpose for which they were designed, this is to cover the loss. This conclusion also suggests that something needs to be changed here. The amendment will also allow insurance undertakings to operate in the reinsurance sector, in accordance with the arrangements in force in other European countries. Insurance companies will also be able to provide mediation services when purchasing or selling mutual funds' investment vouchers. The differentiation of insured persons by sex, as defined in Article 32, may also be interesting. Such a form shall be taken into account in life insurance, accident insurance and certain types of health insurance where women are a less risky group and will pay a smaller premium for the same insurance. The basis for such a decision will certainly be the statistics that already exist or will be obtained by insurance companies. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the proposal for amendments to the law and we are also convinced that there is no reason for this premium to be increased, as some of the applicants have justified in the submission of amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u207	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 20.6.2006. We are therefore moving on to a debate on Article 32 and the three amendments of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia and on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Who wants a word? Mr. Pavlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. How, can I talk about all three amendments or just the first?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u209	That's right, about all the amendments and the article.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u210	Okay, I'll be very short. So we're talking about Article 32 of the novel or Article 83 of the original law to make it more understandable. Our first amendment refers to Article 83, paragraph 4, which, in our view, is unnecessary. In fact, it introduces a time limit for the termination of a life insurance contract, which is already regulated by a regulation that regulates, among other things, insurance contract law. As we know, the Insurance Act is intended for the status law, with rare exceptions, and the Bond Code for the Insurance Contract Law, and such a notice period has already been set. Therefore, there is no need for us to blindly copy what is otherwise written in the European Directive. So, in other words, it doesn't hurt, of course, but it's unnecessary. And on that point, let me say that the bond code provides that the life insurance insurer may withdraw from the contract at any time by suspending the payment of the premium. This is his ultimate right, which we cannot limit by setting a deadline. It's the first amendment. The second amendment refers to the 7th point, the difference between the proposed point, which was also "burned" on the committee, and ours is to delete the one at the end, where it says "or the amount of all costs taken into account in the premium paid" so that this dictatorship is replaced, I will read, if you read from the comma ahead, "also about the amount of the premium which is the basis for determining the liability of the insurance undertaking to the insured person in the event of an insurance case". What's this all about? If we kept such a text as it is now, then this could also mean that in the insurance contract we should disclose all the investment assets that the insurance undertaking must also repay to the insurer. This is one of its obligations, and I think that this amendment is only a legal nomotechnical and also an insurance technical precision of what we want to say. I do not think that it is in the interests of the insurers that they want the insurance contract, which can actually be public, to reveal how much they actually have invested in the insurance company. And also the third amendment - it's actually difficult, I know, I wasn't on the committee, because I wasn't a member either, because there was a lot of controversy about how much personal circumstances could be taken into account, such as sex in risk assessment or in differentiation of the premium. And I must say that this proposal is quite a happy day here, so in principle, the gender of motherhood and pregnancy cannot be taken into account, and then exceptions are set in paragraph 7. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are aware that we cannot delete this paragraph, because then we would deny the centuries-old practice of insurance, sex was, is and will always play a role in certain equipment. However, with a view to further highlighting exceptions, not least in some distant light of Article 14 of the Constitution, although it is very difficult here to draw a parallel between the prohibition of discrimination or the principle of equality in order to make exceptions only in the case of relevant and accurate actuarial and statistical data to be approved by our regulator, the Authority in charge of such an area, that is, the Insurance Supervisory Agency. Therefore, we do not want to achieve anything else, as we say again, because in principle the Agency is supposed to judge or decide on actuarial and statistical data, but I do think that this would achieve that in order to warn insurance companies that, of course, they should not abuse such a vital factor as the personal sex. And that's all. I forgot to say the following before. In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we will be happy to support the bill if our proposals or our amendments are accepted. If they don't, we've just decided that everyone will vote in their own conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u211	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Hwauc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I would like to express the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group on the amendment to Article 32, tabled by the four members: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. But it's gender-related. If we look at the statistics, then it is clear that the life expectancy of a newborn male is 72.2 years and a girl 80.2 years. This difference then decreases slightly in life expectancy between a man and a woman of years, but it is clear and clear that this difference exists. In our view, gender disregard would constitute a certain type of discrimination for the sex in which statistics show that they pose a lower risk to the insurance undertaking. We therefore agree with this amendment to include health insurance in this different treatment, as is the result of the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u213	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the meeting's timing today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 7th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.50 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Love in the National Assembly. Since there are no government representatives yet, I am adjourning the meeting in five minutes and will continue at 4.20 p.m. Excuse me, I'm calling it off. The minister's just arrived. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Dr. Gregor Virant, Minister of Public Administration, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members! I'm sorry I'm half-minute late, but you finished your last point so quickly, I was a little surprised. I was in the lobby, though. I'm going to make a really short introduction. I just want to point out the following. If you ask me, this amendment to the law on elections to the National Assembly is not in the first place a novel on women's quotas. I think that other changes made by law are actually more important in practice, because this law facilitates or facilitates the exercise of electoral rights, allows those who, on electoral Sundays elsewhere and not at the place of their permanent residence, to be elected without having to go to a place where they have permanent residence, to make it significantly easier to vote for residents and expatriates, that is to say for those of our citizens who have permanent or temporary residence abroad, to make it significantly easier to give support to candidates, to suspend local jurisdiction and to allow that support to be given to any administrative unit, irrespective of their local presence, to align the law with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, in particular in the area of electoral law for those who have been deprived of their business ability and to those who have been deprived of it by reason of their right to vote, to vote on the grounds of their independence, to whom they are not. It allows voters to be informed of their candidate lists in a cheaper and more friendly way, that is, by distributing the brochure to all households instead of publishing it in the daily newspaper, which is more expensive and unfriendly to those who do not buy daily newspapers. That electoral material should be printed or ordered on the basis of a public invitation to tender, which has not been a practice so far, and that electoral work would be cheaper, rationalised, that we would receive a transparent electoral box from a solid material and that we would no longer have these cardboard boxes that need to be ordered for each election, and finally that the Republic Election Commission would become a state electoral commission 15 years after our country's independence. So much for the intro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u215	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u216	Thank you very much, President. Nice greetings, Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members! At its 21st regular session, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. The representative of the proposer, the Minister of Public Administration, in addition to his explanation to the members and members of the committee, gave substantial reasons for preparing amendments and supplementing the draft law, the basic objective of which is to bring it into line with article 80 of the Constitution and with certain decisions of the Constitutional Court. In doing so, he stressed that the draft law does not constitute any thorough interference with the electoral system, but it does lead to certain useful amendments and urgent corrections and improvements, in particular in terms of the voter's more favourable exercise of electoral rights, which could also be considered as measures in the context of removing administrative obstacles, the further introduction of so-called quotas to ensure greater participation of women in political life or, in particular, in elections to the National Assembly. A 35% quota is proposed, which means that at least 35% of the candidates or candidates of either sex must be on each list. The proposal for a law also represents the technical passage of the constitutional law in the addition of article 80 of the Constitution to the law on elections to the National Assembly. In particular, the proposed amendments are intended to ensure that elections are carried out more effectively and to facilitate the exercise of electoral rights, and the rationalisation of the elections must also be highlighted. However, some provisions also aim at greater transparency of elections, and in particular at preventing abuses on voters. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that most of the comments made by this service were taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. Therefore, it only drew attention to comments concerning Articles 5 and 33. The debate highlighted and raised questions concerning the amendment to Article 10, which was the amendment of the coalition groups and also the amendment of the group of Members with the first signed Majdo Shirca and the SD Group of Members wishing to increase the percentage relating to the so-called quota. According to some, it was said that it is unacceptable to apply a standard different from the electoral law in the European Parliament and the law on local elections. On the other hand, the majority view has prevailed that, despite the fact that the number of women on average in Slovenian politics or parliament is far from being satisfactory, we cannot and should not place all hopes in improving this situation simply by making these changes, which will still be in the form of an appropriate percentage, is 35% adopted under the so-called women's quotas. In view of the legislative and legal service's comment, which pointed out that the provision that no sex on the candidate list could be represented by less than 35% of the total number of candidates on the list and that this would make it impossible for three candidates to do so, the coalition parliamentary groups have tabled an amendment to Article 10, which also follows the comments of the legislative and legal service and has removed this obstacle. In view of the extensive debate on the problem, the representative stressed that these quotas meant an increase in the standard in any case, since many parties did not reach 35 or 25% in the candidates. Indeed, the average is around 25%, but those who have nominated more women are likely to be in the future, and this is only the lower limit. The Committee thus adopted the amendments of the coalition groups and the SD Group of Members to Article 8 and adopted its amendment to Article 10 and finally supported all the articles of the law together, which it also proposes to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u217	Thank you. Since the assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 16th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we are moving on to a debate on Article 10 and the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia and the substantive amendment of the Social Democrats Group. Who wants a word? Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u218	Thank you very much. I'm not going to deal with explanations I wouldn't torture for the first time. So let me, in explaining and wishing to support this amendment, adopt a less common principle, which is established in the National Assembly, but my intention is the same, not just statistics, but also some different form of dialogue, sometimes monologues on this subject, is the same. I would therefore like to use time to try to answer those questions, in the most populist and in the most common ways, from online forums to newspaper questions, to the usual and frequent questions that arise in the public. I will therefore summarise what is most often asked when the issue of quotas is raised. At the outset, I do not like to use this term, but the amendment of colleagues from the SD and our amendment follows one objective, namely that the objective of this instrument, which we have achieved by amending the Constitution in 2004, should be the same as that already incorporated in the law on local elections, including in national elections. This is, however, a specific objective that at least 40%, at least 40% of women, are expected to contribute to the candidate lists over a certain period of time. What happens most often in online and other places, or what is the most common question also by the male population, what is wrong with quotas? People often wonder, does the introduction of women's quotas not demean women? A woman asks if they're going to treat us like we're a species or something? Isn't this some kind of social engineering? We're women, I'm not gonna say humiliated, in the same words, we're women, we're already inequitable. I am responding when we do not always have the same baseline options and when we are not sufficiently involved in the management of common, public, political and other matters. Often the question is about women in elections, women in elections give votes to men and immediately mention the case of Mrs Barbara Brezigar. It's a misunderstanding to support someone because she's a woman. The point of equality is that we are different, but we must have equal opportunities for realisation itself. These adjustments that we are introducing are also improving with these tools. What else comes up often, which question? Who's defending you from not being involved because you have options and even permission in the constitution? We are also hampered by tradition and by history. The equality of women is the acquisition of the last century, and even in this century, it has been spread under the feet of this topic huge and far too. Equality is pointless to see women as men or to take their samples, your samples. We have to have the same options. If they are not in practice, this is said in some real life, but they need to be encouraged. Once in the future, this issue may not be necessary and such incentives may no longer be necessary. Indeed, by that time certain thought patterns will have to move in with us. What else do we hear? Whether quotas do not impede the freedom to choose voters or even parties who form ballots, or they are not too paternalistic. If this is a measure that has positive results, at least for these objectives that we are pursuing ourselves, and I have no doubt about it, this freedom of choice will be extended but not limited. What else is a common question? But there is no quota system for incapacitated, loyal, sexy, ambitious, ornamental, unfavourable savers. Farsa and the phrase. We are the most educated Slovenian women in Europe. In 93%, exactly 93.5% of women in Slovenia have secondary education; in Europe, the average is 80%. More than 56% of women in Slovenia have higher education, in Europe the average is lower, 55%, but we still earn less than men, by 9%, and we work more than men, longer and use and use less working time. In short, the instigation of unfulfilled feminists who immediately stick to this issue is merely a fear of the threat of quota status. What else comes up as a question? The quota system may bring, that's what women like to say, at the first stage of a painting that enhances the grayness in which the ties dominate, is it true? I said that we are among the most educated in Europe, I said that we are among the most working in Europe, but that a woman comes to a name or a leading position, she has to show, and this is nothing new, as I say - significantly more skills than men. The criteria are practically the same and the implementation of these criteria is not in practice the same. After all, with what markings we deserve our intellectual and political confirmation of women in Parliament or some women here in Parliament. We hear that we're hysterical, psychologically unstable, need gynaecological examinations and so on. And I really want to know if you parliamentarians get as many anonymous letters and disqualifications as you get me, women. And I want to know if you're being discredited because of your sex, if you're being influenced by pornographic glues coming through your home, and if they're getting involved in family life, even though some of us know they don't keep their hands off their children or passersby. This is often the case. If we put women in politics, then they'll want to go to the control worlds, science, universities, somewhere else. Yes, women need jobs, including those, and we also need enforcement. Unemployed women are 3% more than men and out of 946,000 active people and residents are only half women. They also sometimes ask: Can an administrative measure bring the desired results, that is to say this quota percentage? I say that a greater proportion of women in politics could bring a different view, not just a different weight in certain and specific issues, for example, social issues, because we are always attached to this, that we are mostly interested in, but perhaps also bring greater tolerance, which is lacking in our culture, or greater operationality, perhaps even greater correctness. And then lastly, the most common question that falls to the first range and also to the first mouth. If so, you have a choice, so why are there no more women in public life? Stay away, stay away from the responsibilities. In politics, it is often about values and ways that women are not close to. If we stay women out, these models reproduce. This is not for us, whether it be someone else or those who like it, who can do it and who hope to cope. And so somehow this vicious circle and the closed circle are preserved. But at the same time, social and social rises also carry traps. If you don't believe in him out of your own conviction, not in your own opinion, then you give up. I speak for the women. Yesterday, a woman resigned from her leading position, which was to be briefly named. Probably because she didn't agree with the enforced law that would make her work. Is that a win, or is that a defeat? Maybe it's a victory for her, maybe it's a defeat for a society that's enforced inappropriate rules, but she did. I am speaking because we might be able to reflect in why there are no more women in public life, including the principle of a principled approach that we are close to. I am convinced that a woman must be much smarter, more active, and more proof of certain leading and other places. But it's not true that women don't want to go into politics, that they don't want to take responsibility and leadership. But it is true that many of them are hindered by the fact that they are women. And both ours and your amendment are trying to move not only women but also men to change this political landscape, this space in Slovenia faster than it would have been if it hadn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u219	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u220	Thank you very much. It would be better for me if, on behalf of the Group of Members, I could express my satisfaction with the fully prepared law, even in the work concerning the implementation of Article 43 of the Constitution with regard to the promotion of equal opportunities, but unfortunately I cannot do so. I would have preferred to be able to commend the ruling coalition that it is in line with the big words expressed by representatives of some ruling coalition parties before they were in power, what needs to be done with the electoral system in order to be democratic and consistent with the constitution in order for what happened to happen to happen to them to not. We are therefore becoming only and only one question, not irrelevant, but also one issue where we cannot express satisfaction, is that, in the progress made over the past 10 years and more in this National Assembly, we have certainly also achieved on the issue of gender equality in elections, and yet I think for some very unknown reasons - and I would be extremely pleased if we heard them - we cannot achieve that the possibility of equal representation of women or both sexes would be established in the same way in the elections to the European Parliament, in the local elections and in the elections to the National Assembly. Does the coalition, which in every way wanted there to be a difference, want to show that elections are of different importance? Does it want to show that, according to her belief - in whatever way we speak about gender equality, we know that this moment is also accepted by quotas or, in particular, in order to ensure greater opportunity for women to run for the European Parliament - they can run for the European Parliament and be successfully elected? Or that municipal councillors, or mayors, may be able to keep a slight scepticism, proving that the possibility or guarantee of equal candidature is not 40, but only 35% at this point. If I hear from anyone about any argument, I'll try to think in peace whether he's smart or not. This moment, when I think about them myself, I would hardly say that there is anything wise to say, except that it is not yet time for perfect equality to be ensured. Except to say that we may have been persistent, demanding and perhaps overly worded on the left hand side of social democracy and liberal democracy, but we should not be wrong because you must be right, which you have most. Otherwise, I can't find a substantive argument. I hope that the last minute, because I don't believe we're going to be talking about this for hours, and I want to say no to myself, is that maybe the last minute is just going to convince most of us that the amendment we tabled in the Liberal Democracy and the Social Democrats will be supported and that we will achieve the unity of this regime in all the elections we have, regardless of the fact that the transitional period will still be a cruel one, but at least in the system. If not, we will have to settle for the fact that the majority for full equality has not yet matured and hope and wait for this to happen as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u221	Thank you. Mr. Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u222	The only amendment left to the two parliamentary groups or to the parliamentary club and to the Group of Social Democrats is the amendment concerning the so-called quotas. I think it's a really cheap debate. As we know that the law on local elections currently has a lower number, given that we currently have a clear number of MPs in Parliament and that there is already a practically threefold increase in the proposal in terms of the real situation that is required, it seems to me to increase this in order to actually move from incentive to coercion. I don't think this is the way to go. Talking about not having the same options is, of course, completely depressed because it is not true. I think this argument is already turning into violence against women in the home, and I would really avoid it. In the last month and a half, when we visited or had meetings with various parliaments - I will count Estonia, Slovakia, Ireland - we asked in informal talks [[Some of you were there too.]] whether they have a law that literally enforces legislation that forces how many women should be elected to Parliament - I will talk about women - because we know that this is the issue because men are still more and more in Slovenia, in Parliament and everywhere. They said they didn't think it was too banal. But after all these parliaments, they now have more women in Parliament than we have. Nevertheless, I am convinced that the incentive that I think the present number is already relatively large in view of the fact that we have to come from a real situation. And I'm sure no party has ever stopped women from running, I'm sure. However, that the biggest incentive of the current MPs in Parliament is for more candidates to run for the next election, and I think that on average you are Members of the good Members of this Parliament, and I am sure that the number of candidates and the number of elected Members in the next term will be at least 100% higher, I am sure. But by force, I'm really skeptical. In a man's way of assessing how women are involved in public life, it seems to me in some way to humiliate women themselves. The criteria can't just be profit, the amount of work, then you could say the lifetime if we started banalizing things where we came from. I don't think that's a good view of things. Women have a different approach to solving problems and things are complementary and usually less visible outside. To be perfectly honest, through many men women work and have influence and have influence and, I think, a quality impact on social life as well. If we look at other structures or other fields of social life that are very important, where women's principles are strongly dominated, journalism, education, judiciary. Well, that could be one aspect, if she's paying the criteria herself, you mean working in a teaching profession. I don't think so. I think it's closer to the women's principle of a pedagogical approach. I think it's in nature and that it's a difference, and I think it would be very dangerous to start introducing into the school system a man's quota, by force to change some natural approach. Let's look at the whole picture. It is not just Parliament's criteria for how many women are involved in social life, and, frankly, Slovenia is very much in the World Summit as regards women's participation in education. And, as I said, of course, it is probably also connected to the past culture of looking at government structures, but at the moment there are no more women in Parliament. Things are developing, but not forcefully, I am absolutely not in favour of imposing even greater standards if this happens in Parliament, and it is likely that the matter will come automatically to other areas, which I have mentioned earlier, where the problem is reversed. Of course, we are not afraid, I have worked in the teaching profession, and certainly it would be good for the educational process if there were more men, even in my view for the judiciary, but this is the situation and no one is talking about the need to introduce men's quotas. That's why I think it's a shame that we hear such a man's approach right out of a woman's mouth. I don't like it, but otherwise we're made to do the best we can in a couple. And I generally agree that it would be nice if there were 50:50 in Parliament, and I am also sure that we are going slowly in this direction. If we look at the Scandinavian parliaments, the situation is quite at this level, but it is interesting when they ask themselves where men are, if they are not in politics, if women are in politics and, say, in government, also mostly women. We cannot say here that there is no impact on the field of work in social life, of course there are more men in the economy. As I was saying, the Swedes just confirmed this picture, if the economy is well developed, then it is certainly one of the possibilities for greater engagement of men there and there is so much in politics. I think an increase of 5% in this case is really just a political pretense to discuss today and to talk about if there is no equal option, which is not true. I think that 35% is already an unrealistic figure and that we can even have more damage in certain environments than benefits if we are looking for women candidates who, for example, would not be interested in candidateing. We know that in some environments the thought is such that women do not want to enter the public scene. However, as I mentioned earlier, the matter must certainly come from some real situation in Slovenia. At the moment, I think it's about 12% - I think I said right - of the women in our Parliament, who I once again say are the best incentives, their work for candidates in the new elections, and I am sure they are a good incentive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u223	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u224	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! I am glad to have the opportunity to explain some things again, because obviously there are many times to be said, and the Slovenian proverb says that it is said twice in the mill. Parliament obviously needs to be said more than once, but it doesn't depend. In my teaching profession, I was taught that the answer depends on the question, and here I am turning to you, Mr Kokalj. If, when you walk across Europe, you ask if they have a specific number of women in Europe to be elected, it is clear that they consider this incoherent, but who understands at least a little about democracy, that they know who will be elected, whether electorate or electorate. But with this law, as with the law on local elections, we decide only on the possibility of running. Therefore, your account operation, which results from the number of 12 now present Members in this reference and how many of them should be completely illusory and unnecessary, because you cannot predict it. But you can increase the possibility of emancipation by increasing the number of women among the candidates. See, here's where some things open up to me in a different light than you do. Let me just tell you one more thing. The teacher’s companion, this was a 19th - century newspaper, which was designed for teaching, provides a number of information on how the teachers moved. As women struggled to get into the teaching profession, historical material was also collected. There were a number of restrictions, including the fact that they should not have married other than the teacher alone, and there were many other things I could have told you. They weren't supposed to go to school normally because they weren't supposed to go to school with men, but, now, that's the important part, they celebrated as better teachers than their male colleagues. They were rare, but they were good. Now, where women usually open up in their professional lives; where men leave them for a variety of reasons. But the Social Democrats are committed to partner democracy or parity democracy, which means that the normal state of affairs is to balance representation with the actual gender balance in life. The question that I have never received in all these many debates is why the coalition insists on number 35. Why the quota coalition did not set it to 40, as the quota was set at 40 in elections to the European Parliament and at local elections. We should leave it aside that at the local elections it has escaped by means of transitional provisions. In particular, I would like to point out that for elections to the European Parliament, a provision that states that one woman or one member of the other sex must be included in the upper part of the candidate list, of course she is a woman, but all the parties who wanted to be included in the above part of the candidate list have decided to take account of the bottlenecks in the European elections. And that is why we have in the European Parliament - honor and glory to the Slovenian electoral body! - Three MPs. But when we get to the local elections, it's a little dangerous. And we give a lower quota, 20%, and we let go of the zipper. We leave them some time away from the possibility of applying both the clamp and the 40% quota. But when we get to the national elections, of course, things are different. And I think the answer lies in that, because 40% of the quota would sooner or later have to face the possibility that there might ever be five women and six men on the candidate list in the electoral system like we have now; that there would ever be six women and five men, I don't hope, of course, if I don't mean small parties. And this is where I come up with a second argument. [[Back-up advertising.]] You're afraid of that, Mr. Bones, yes. You're afraid of that. What am I trying to say? The argument that we are at the level of 25% of what was on the 2004 election candidates' lists is even more attractive to the hair because, if we had any courage, we should only look at the percentage of those parties that are parliamentary parties. The analysis shows that the percentage of women on the candidate lists is inversely proportional to the success of the party in the elections - the most masturbating parties are most afraid to include women in such candidate posts, where their emancipation would be at least close to the likely one. It is true that we no longer have separate statistics to talk about whether the elective body is unfavorable to women and whether we are close to that stereotype that women do not vote for women. If women only have one representative available and have to make decisions for them, I have said several times that there must be a choice among women. That is why more candidates on the candidate lists are needed. To talk about rape, rape, and, I don't know what else is attracted to hair. If a party claims to have the best representation of women in this national assembly without quotas, then I really do not see the reason why it could not reach and respect quotas and there is no reason to oppose such a proposal and cannot consider it imposed, because it will only confirm the facts it is implementing. The Equal Opportunities Act, for political parties, also requires the adoption of action plans to tell the party how it will contribute to improving women's participation in decision-making. As long as all parties, including parliamentary, such action plans, do not have such plans, I am waiting for the Council to wake up to the Slovenian Government's Minister of Education and will find that some of the legal provisions are not respected, and then we may hear another debate, and now let me just say something else. We go beyond women after education, today it was said, men, the education structure is constantly increasing. But there's something else I have to say that even at the highest level of education, that's in the doctorate of science, women are the worst paid, compared to men in relation to other jobs. Why? Because they are eliminated from all the highest positions. We in Slovenia like to brag about how we have a good percentage of women in the management structure. Yes, the question is, how far do we cover this leadership structure, what are we counting, there are few women fighting at the top. While I am pleased that Slovenia is running for the European Institute for Gender Equality, and I am pleased to see those publications that have been prepared, but only the fact that there are three women sitting in the management of the clinical centre does not mean anything, as it is known from the research that men's networks like to choose to run women into projects that are doomed to failure, and here we should ask why the coalition has ever decided to choose a woman for leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u225	Thank you. Mr. Grill has the floor. Excuse me, replica, Mr. Bones, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u226	Mrs. Potts misunderstood me. I just said that I asked other parliamentarians across Europe if they had a similar marriage, and they told me not to. You have understood the matter through already electoral results, or that I have asked how many women are expected in Parliament. I just wanted to tell you that a lot of people don't know this kind of law, but they have more women in Parliament. Otherwise, I think that the commitment to greater participation of women in the Slovenian Parliament and politics can really be achieved by both the parliamentary group and both parties with good example in such a way that they already have such candidate lists in local elections, where at least 50% of the women will be upstairs, and if you do so, then I believe you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u227	Thank you. Mr. Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u228	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I myself strongly support the fact that the largest possible female population would also be involved in politics, I am truly pleased with every woman who has decided on politics, and even through my work, I have made a great deal of efforts in this direction. I also recognise equality at all, I make no distinctions, even though there are differences. If not in a different sense, mainly on the basis of or in the sense of some physical differences, but here I do not understand or understand how we mix or mix, both Mrs Potara and Mr Potrč, pears and apples in terms of elections to the European Parliament or local elections or the national elections. The key difference is to get 7 candidates and candidates for elections to the European Parliament rather than to the National Assembly, not to talk about drawing up lists in municipal councils. I am responsible for the operation of, say, 12 municipal committees of the SDS, a political or client matter, and I can tell you that there are major problems with some committees to get a sufficient number of women or motivate them to want to join politics or even now on the lists. I believe that in other political groups you will also have difficulties in providing this quota in some environments, so it is quite another thing from the parliamentary booth to look at women's participation in politics rather than on the ground. Whoever's involved in field work is certainly aware of this problem. I don't have the kind of experience that Shirtz's colleague used to explain how women are discriminated against in their professions. Before I became a member of the three companies, neither of these companies had any difference between men or women in order to be treated in any way. If the education and other qualifications required were the same, the salaries and all other conditions were identical. It might be possible to ask where are the reasons why women do not want to be involved in politics, because also men do not want to be involved in many things, perhaps there is a media image of politics as being valid in public, such as this, I will not say dirty, but not the most popular. It may be necessary to look for solutions or motivation in men, especially in women in kindergartens, schools, to try to get to know them in some way about the work of a politician or a politician. It is therefore necessary to start working in these areas as well. The very statutory quotas, but I am sure they cannot contribute to some rapid leap in order to have enough women interested in politics. And there's one more thing. I am sure that there is a danger, namely that with some so rigorous percentages we can achieve a completely different effect or result, because if we are looking for quotas between a smaller number of candidates than we could otherwise, I am sure that the choice is worse. Here with some of these solutions, when we have them in this law, I think they're the right way forward and there's no limit. Last but not least, it is possible to decide whether or not each policy option is also run by 50% or more of the parties. And that's all I'd say in the end. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, I remember both the candidates for the last State elections and all the time after that, we have always paid special attention to the gathering or search for candidates for the list or for the National Assembly as well as now for the municipal elections. Here to say that we are avoiding this or that we are pushing women away, that is not true. For our client, I can say with full responsibility that it is of great interest all the time to attract women to the candidacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u229	Thank you. Mrs. Potts wanted a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u230	Thank you. Mr Grill, it is true that the process of obtaining women on candidate lists is a demanding business, which is also linked to the political culture and tradition of a party's action. But look, in this law, the previous period remains. What our amendment is trying to introduce is that the quota for all laws remains at 40% for all elections. This is not a construct, but it is a result of experience from Europe, which is that if we want to talk about a different policy, about a changed relationship, about changed policy priorities, about greater female participation, the critical mass must be exceeded. The lowest percentage, which is to make policy different so that we can at least start to think about it, is 30% of the threshold, but it would be correct to have 40%. This is indeed a long-term procedure, and therefore transitional provisions are in place. It is also true that the atmosphere of the adoption of the electoral law in the European Parliament was different. I recall a public opinion survey that supported with 55% the claim that women in politics are not enough. And that was also related to how we discussed and how we all found that they needed to be obtained. Now this is our debate on the quotas at the elections, and at the local elections, it is now in the National Assembly that the climate has changed slightly and not everyone is so sure that the quotas can help. But the fact is that quotas in themselves are not going to bring anything yet, other measures need to be put in place. And in the parties of the leadership and the constituency, they know exactly how these things are served. The fact is that it is difficult to accept the argument that women do not just choose politics. They do not make decisions because they are credited with not being interested in politics because they are credited with many things. But look, every day we have to make a decision about a hundred small things and a little less small things. The decision is in the nature of our operation. Therefore, it is irresponsible and discriminatory to decide on other matters. It's true for me, I admit, the greatest election right for women in the 20th century. And countries that have given early and active electoral rights have a slightly different experience than we have. However, it is necessary - and you will admit that - to create an atmosphere and a willingness for women to adopt into politics because women must feel this acceptance. There is a study that tells us that Parliament for Women is a dangerous environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u231	Thank you. Mrs Potrata, this was not a replica, but it was a debate. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u232	Thank you very much. I am very reluctant to speak on this subject, because I know that on the other hand we have interlocutors with whom we are speaking. In particular, the right side of Parliament does not focus on this issue by giving a little thought to what it is actually about. First of all, I would like to say that it is absolutely not true that in those countries where the proportion of women in Parliament is already elected, 40 per cent and more, it is said that 40 per cent and more have been elected, that it did not start with legislation that forced customers to place at least 40% of women on the candidate lists. The fact is that this is called a sexual quota, not to say that women are specifically regarded as some protected type of animal in the red book, but to call it a sexual quota. In fact, this has started to ensure equal or at least approximately equal representation of women in parliaments, municipal councils and where the authorities are already loved. It should also be known that ensuring that women are truly elected to Parliament is not enough quotas in electoral law, but that the electoral system needs to be changed. With such an electoral system as we have, we will never achieve equal or equal representation of women. The electoral system is said to be a proportional electoral system that ensures equal representation of women, because it is possible to prescribe, watch out, prescribe the zip. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Not as tight as you invented 2.1.2.1, but the right zipper 1.1.1.1. [[...]] Only in this way can we ensure representation 1:1.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u233	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary! Subject to this amendment, which foresees [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the quota threshold for women to participate in the elections in the National Assembly, I must say that I personally opposed any quota in this area because I think it is primarily non-democratic procedures. [[...]] In fact, I am surprised that these thresholds are constantly trying to raise customers who are declaring themselves or at least think that some of the guardians of democracy are with us. They have such a self-image, but above all, I think that all this introduction of quotas in different areas and conductive procedures is not actually democratic and has a lot of negative consequences. And it is also in this area when we listen to these some debates from the position of combat feminism. It seems to me that this fighting feminism in today's modern world is already surviving and that I can actually agree here with one of the colleagues who said that if women are on the list, they must have the option of evolutionary choices between women. And I think it's useful then, because I think women in this choice would also choose between those who come from fighting feminism positions and other women who aren't burdened with it, for the sake of those candidates who are just practicing this fighting feminism. Speaking of what these conductive procedures are doing, what are the consequences. See, for example, I would like to point out that, in fact, there are a lot of negative consequences in Slovenian society. This is the introduction of a conductor's entry into the university through Gabra's prom. This case broke the normal relationship of many colleges, and professors at law school complained in person years ago that it brought this anomaly, that the profession was too feminized. And today we have too feminized a judiciary, as a result. The judiciary is just a few more male specimens, they are slowly feeling immortal, sublime and especially, with a special mission, in fact, they are already seen in certain functions when they are democratically replaced they do not want to withdraw and so on. And even in such a conductive process, of course, it is a terrible interest to succeed. And every year we have a senior affair. This year, of course, was designed to discredit the Minister of Education, so they even sent fields to Dnevnik that were mistrusted and so on. What's going on? Here of the two parties advocating democratic procedures as far as possible, the case in Kočev, when the principal, proven to have violated the secrecy at the graduation, the crime, read in the newspaper, these two parties supported such an illegal crime. And that headmistress that nothing should happen to a woman, or from any position, was protected in the community council as a headmistress. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u235	Mrs Pečanova, only Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u236	If I have correctly understood one of the speakers before, it is a reason that it is difficult to get women to run for lists, including a lack of political culture. I think it's insulting to women. I think because a woman won't run, she doesn't have a lower political culture. He may have a slightly lower political literacy, but he has every right not to be interested in politics. And unfortunately, in Slovenia, the practice is such that in fact very well-established women, who are universally established when you ask them to go to a list because they could be a great Member, do not agree with this. Personally, I think that this fighting feminism has actually done the most damage to the fear that the established women would not be identified as men or I don't know what and rather avoid it. We really need to respect this reality in Slovenia. This will come to pass, in Slovenia too, that this proportion of women applying to politics will be elected. Nor is it true or if, as it was said, the most mastic customers have the least elected Members, then, for example, the predecessor of the United List, as the party was called from 1996 to 2000, had quotas and no elected woman. This is said to have been the most mastic party. From this greatest machism, the movement then took place in a completely different direction, and we listen to these debates from the position of combat feminism. In fact, I am in a difficult situation, as I say, against all quotas both in politics and in other areas where it is not necessarily necessary, because it is not a tradition I do not know. In fact, I would prefer to see that in some way the amendment was adopted so that we could actually end it in the third reading, because I think we are not moving in the direction of greater democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u237	Thank you. I would like to draw attention to the content of the amendments and to the issue under discussion. If we were to stick strictly to the darkness, we could only discuss 35 or 40 percent and nothing else. But since no one has so far strictly adhered to the content and you've all given up, I can't have someone new, very harshly pretending not to stick to the darkness. Mrs. Kucler Dolinar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u238	Thank you very much. In view of this electrical atmosphere today in this room, the parallel could actually be drawn to the football atmosphere, where the ball is passed from one side to the other, and in the meantime some also score the goal. Above all, I would like to say that, despite the football climate, we have also won our part in the debates, including in the men's debates on today's law. At the 15th anniversary of Slovenian statehood, we also realized in our young country that the percentage of women in politics is largely at a low level in urban decision-making. As we have heard, and as we have read in this period, the views on quotas are very different. If I could conclude from past discussions, it seems to me that there is a certain desire to place some responsibility on others. I hope and wish that, in the framework of their political meetings, fellow Member Shirca, Mrs Potrata and Mrs Pečanov have also taught their colleagues such a lesson within their own parties. I hope that they will listen even more to them in this way. In particular, I would like to stress that it will not be possible that only Mrs Potrata knows about the Action Plan; also the Women's Association in New Slovenia has adopted an Action Plan, just before and during the post-adoption period, and the party at the Congress has also endorsed the Action Plan. And not only are we pleased to have women in New Slovenia, that we have a Vice-President Party, a European Member, two Members of the National Assembly, we have a Vice-President of the Council of Articles, a member of the Executive Committee, in the Council of the Party, in other bodies of the Party, and therefore I am looking at this today's measure, which we will introduce, in particular in the sense that if only one woman who would have been prevented from running on the candidate list would be allowed to run, we will do much on any candidate list: also on the LDS candidate list also on the SD candidate list. I want and sincerely allow all the candidates who are competing for this to come to the post and come to the right place after the election. Therefore, it seems to me that this measure is only one of the measures with the proposed 35% share of the second sex, the popular women's quota I think is appropriate, and above all the appropriate gradual introduction of this percentage. That's what I'm looking at from my personal point of view. I did not come into politics because of the quota, I came here for the trust of the New Slovenia Committee and for the trust of voters. I express this position today both in my personal name and on behalf of those women whom I have spoken with during this period and who agree with my position. So somehow I was surprised at the introduction when Mrs Shirca presented herself as the representative of all women. It is true that a woman in politics is the one who humanises her, who can add a different perspective to a particular task, but I agree with a fellow Member who said that she does not change that in the main. And I see the changes proposed by the government as a step forward, the possibility of complementary cooperation both between politicians and politicians and, above all, in an honest way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u239	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u240	Thank you very much. I find this argument to be about 5%, 35% or 40% rather unnecessary, and I find it difficult to understand these fiery debates about whether 35 or 40% will change, because this 5% will not change anything. Otherwise, I do not think that quotas as an administrative measure will really change anything about women's participation in politics. As far as the parties are concerned, I think it would be better if you wanted more women in the parliamentary groups to run for candidates in those constituencies that are electoral. Because if you don't, quotas are just a bluff. We have practical evidence for this in the National Assembly. The LDS proposed, for example, 28% of women candidates in previous elections and 13% of women candidates in the parliamentary group. So if we wanted to have more in the parliamentary group, we would probably run them in those districts that are easier to choose. I will not boast of the quotas myself as some achievement of my mandate. My position is very close to what Mr Jerovšek said before me. We have proposed the quotas mainly because we wanted to go to those who want these quotas, who think they will have a positive impact because we wanted the consensus on the electoral law to be as high as possible. So we could start by discussing why we think it should be 35% and not 40% of your 40%, we could go back to the starting point. We could talk about nothing and 40, for example, and then 35% of one is a bearable compromise. I myself firmly believe that quotas will not have an effect, that they are not the right measure. But I would be happy if there were a 50 - 50 ratio in the National Assembly. That would be very happy. No offense, fellow men, I think in this case more wisdom, sober judgment, would be taken if the relationship between men and women in politics were approximately balanced. However, I also think that a smart man listens to a woman's opinion, and that even through it, whether it's hot or unwilling, women are significantly more affected by political decisions than we usually think.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u241	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca, did you report to the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u242	I have two replicas for the performance of Mrs Dolinarova and Mr Minister. Mr. Virant first. If you think you're bluffing, as you say, regardless of how much you'd like to have 50-50, so you can enjoy it or like it, then leave them alone. Don't bluff and suggest them! But why are you proposing them? Because you're embarrassed. Because every time you meet a European environment, you blush, you've done it all the time. And when you come into the middle, who first asks the question of how to make a male representation in this middle, you're embarrassed. That's the way it's always been. That's what happened in the past. It wasn't just your client's, it was other people's. But standards, standards, values, criteria, and, above all, pressures are changing. I do not want to defend the issue that Europe is the one that may be forcing us into such solutions, but that its society is also helping us. And that's why this duality when we act like we're going to Brussels, and otherwise, it's inappropriate and I don't like it. After all, then you don't really have to propose what you are, because Mr Jerovšk doesn't like it, and he's against it. But if I go back to the first reason I wanted to replicate it. You're saying that what is this 5%, that this 5% is nothing. It's big. This is about one person. Specifically, if we meet with a 25% solution as it is supposed to be in a transitional period, then these are three places of one sex since eleven. But if we meet 35%, that's four of the sexes of eleven. So the difference is big and significant. Okay, it's not just you. There's a lot of people with problems. Liberal democracy doesn't have them here, and that's why it doesn't actually work in its own kind. Far from it. We have our statutes, we have the share that we have to achieve in each election, of course the higher one, it is a gradual exercise of these shares. And whether this law is adopted or not, for these elections we have a principle in our own rules. They don't have a lot of other clients, but that's why we're different. And if anything, we want and want to pursue our own, I mean, common goal, which is that these relationships change. I also wanted to replicate Mrs. Kucler Dolinar. Did we get a word in today's debate? Please! Who gave it to us, or could someone let us talk? They give us everything else. We have women, and thank God we know how to use them, and we're not enough to use them. We're different. In the Liberal Democracy, this solution now addresses its problem because the statutes and all the other internal regulations somehow command it. And also with you, Mrs Dolinar, I must admit that one way of discussing this is in Slovenia, and another way is that you use it when you represent Slovenia abroad. When you attended a meeting of the Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Paris, where you discussed, inter alia, the balanced representation of women in the Council of Europe bodies and when the report also addressed the problem of equal opportunities and also the incentives for the application of 40% of the share, you agreed, even more, that you were very proud of Slovenia, that our country has the best standard in terms of the current situation, that is 67% of the women in the parliamentary assembly in the delegation, that is more than the draft report itself. And here your standards fall immediately, they're lower, and now it's 25% less. What I'm trying to say is that it's necessary to be principled in all places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u243	Thank you. In the meantime, Mr Minister, the debate took place. He can come in any time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u244	Thank you. Just an answer. Honorably speaking, I have never been proud in my life because we do not have women's quotas in Slovenia. Even if I had brought a marriage without women's quotas to Parliament, I would certainly never have blushed in the future. But I've been in a bit of an awkward situation lately, talking to people, both female and male, and I had to explain whether I really am the minister who introduces women's quotas. I have to say, especially when I've been talking to women, all the way to the last, they think it's a lame move. When I talked to women who were not in politics, I was told until the last time that it seemed completely unnecessary to them and without a relationship. I find it very fun to watch an LDS member who has 13% of women in the parliamentary group, Members of Parliament, criticise in an angry way the New Slovenia delegation, which has 22% of women in the parliamentary group. There is a clear gap between words and actions or decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u245	Thank you. Mr Rugelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u246	Thank you very much. I think this percentage is pretty good, a little bit longer than 35%, that's that commitment: at least 35%. That means someone can have 65% or 95%. However, I am pleased in some way that this is exactly what will happen, that we will no longer have those feminist lists on which women themselves will, of course, now they want to compensate in some way for what these women will say and read to you, maybe they will not even elect you anymore, so I fully agree for this minimum. But we can't just legislate 50% now, of course, and we'd still like to see the voters vote 50 percent. But look, this is already an infringement of some constitutional rights, as let's say we're already dealing with it in essence in these fundamental constitutional rights. We're all human, and we all have to be able to run. And by forcing someone under duress, we take something away from someone by force. And it really happens that we get to what women themselves say is that in fact this matter is totally unnecessary for them, for those women who feel equal to men. Those women say that, of course, we can't say that about the other women. Perhaps I would also say what Mr Jerovšek had already mentioned, for the judiciary, when we confirm 90% of women as judges here, then there is no woman who would report on gender equality. Or, let's say a woman comes by or some man comes by, I don't know, even in other professions. The Shiva in Fox, for example, why don't we force so many men there, or in some other profession to force so many women. I tell you, there can be a little democracy. This issue will help to promote greater involvement of women in politics, but in the long run this is not a perspective. And it is right to encourage and, of course, throughout the long term, all our citizens and citizens must have equal opportunities for candidacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Well, it's a good thing you've had a good time, but still a little peace so we can talk. Mrs. Shirca, I didn't hear you quoted. Mr. Rugelj, did you quote her? [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] I didn't notice, but can I report you to Mrs. Shirtz for discussion? [[...]] Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u248	Thank you very much, distinguished president, distinguished minister, colleagues and colleagues! I would suggest something, but now also after sports, that we calm down this football, which is really a little overheated here this afternoon, black is warm outside quite a bit, and let's take a little look at it left, right, and small tolerance would be very useful for all of us in here. I think the quotas we're talking about today are either 35% or 45%. After all, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. I am deeply convinced that these quotas will not also fix the next term of the National Assembly anything better, but even less local elections, believe me. Let's write this down, and then you'll check things out. Personally, I don't support it. It's kind of a compulsion. That's what women who have nothing to do with politics tell me, not with a client. They say it's insulting for them to talk about women's quotas, which is offensive for them. And also those who would have any will to come to the list, that rejects them, I speak to the local level, that rejects them. Maybe it's a little different in places, but I'm talking again where I come from in this National Assembly. That's what they tell me. The first time we talked about this, they were really offended about how we talk about quotas. He's already so rude, so ugly that you can't believe it, but good, that's right. I think that these percentages are not so bad for the young democracy of Slovenia. We cannot compare ourselves with France and Sweden with Finland. They've been ahead of us for 50 years on these things. Let's wait, the time goes slowly forward and in these areas Slovenia will also mature. And if we've decided so to make some quotas, so-called, I think it's a big step that this big step has been taken. But it is true that the possibilities are given to all today, both men and women. The problem is that women in a particular environment simply have no interest in politics. There's been less men lately. Why is that, I don't know, but that's the way it is. I speak mainly of local lists of municipal councils. Of course, I would feel terrible in the national assembly only with men, the same for the municipal councils, definitely. But with these quotas, we can't solve this problem. Believe me, I may be wrong. I'm talking about the area where I come from. The second thing I think is local, national elections. This is quite a different matter, for we know that people for the National Assembly are preparing parties differently than they are preparing for local lists of municipal councils. It's not exactly the same. But good. We're gonna have to take that into account. We have a transitional period, which is also right to listen in some way to animated or to say ugly, "send" women to go into politics. At least that's how it's going to be in our client and probably in others in our environment. I'm talking about the local environment. But as for all of this when we're talking about where they are, where they're not. I think the number 35 is kind of an intermediate thing between 30 and 40. That's how you determined, something in between. I think it's quite appropriate. But none of this limits it, ladies and gentlemen. The ones you want, you can have 60, 70%, why not? And those who will have such candidates, who are also electoral, will put more women on the list, those who do not, will have to meet this quota in one way or another. They like it or they don't. Here, I think we're arguing a little too much about something that has no special connection in the context and in the long term, or that there will be 30% of women in Parliament, or that is today, when there are 13. That's not gonna help. This is my belief, so I think we're arguing about things that don't have content, and with some long-term issue, how many women will be in politics tomorrow, tomorrow, no common relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u249	Thank you. Mrs. Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u250	Thank you so much for saying that. The quotas are not the essence of this law, said the minister, but other improvements to the electoral system in the National Assembly. That is why I will also support this law, but I certainly would not support it because of quotas, nor would I if the amendment were adopted, because quotas are a very poor taste of this law. I remember the agricultural quotas. We had to introduce the odds because there was something too much. What's too much of us women as voters? So we remembered him, and we introduced one quota, 20, 30, 40%. Why don't you suggest 50%? The only thing acceptable to me is 50%, as much as it is in nature. We've heard today that we're educated, intelligent, good, I don't know what. Then why don't you risk it? The same options, equal opportunities must be given to both women and men, and I do not agree that marriage makes us second-rate, now even third-rate. You know what they say in the field? So you don't forget to give third place to a woman. At least that's what it said before, if she's capable, let her go hunting those voices. But now, don't forget to put them in third place. That's the point now of this marriage. They make us third-class and I don't agree to quotas. The law must give equal opportunities, and in particular men must be raised in their parties and placed at their own doorstep, and then we can reach a higher percentage in the national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u251	Thank you. Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u252	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I must say that, like Mrs Pecanova herself, I am very reluctant to talk about the so-called women's quotas or the share of women's representation in politics. Above all, I hate to talk about these things because I always feel very miserable. Probably as miserable as they felt at the beginning of the previous century as those women who advocated the introduction of active and passive electoral rights in their countries. And Mr Kokalj said - interestingly, he was in countries where they don't even think about such a law as to introduce so-called women's quotas. I propose that the National Assembly allow him to visit another country like that, to have a conversation with another such parliament, where he will be pleased to be told that the quotas have started with them. The quotas started with the action that eventually led to 40 percent or even more women being sent to national parliaments. Too bad Mr. Jerovsk isn't here. He, interestingly, always reveals to me a new truth that I never knew before. Today, for example, he said literally that it was an anomaly if some profession feminized. Interesting! So the anomaly is also what happens in the textile industry, of course, which happens in very difficult jobs, where most of the employees are women only, but, look at him, hell, director, boss, but the leader is man. This debate here is such - it shows us a very harsh fact where we are. The fact that Mr Janc, a colleague, has to say "orbi et urbi" here, we are all human beings. Yeah, for God's sake, if we didn't say it today, I wouldn't even know it. And you say it doesn't matter what quota we decide on. No, it's not, it doesn't matter. And even though I've heard some of these shows here today, if, in our client, we're looking at women being able to run more and more, I'm saying that all the customers are in some way very similar. They are similar in that, however, men who are the only ones in charge will generally decide where those women who speak for the elections will run, as Mr Minister has said - to put them on those candidate posts that are less elective if possible. And that's exactly where I see some positive influence that we have in our hands today. We can legislate by law that our male colleagues will have to act differently in our clients when it comes to creating candidate papers. This tool is in our hands today to do so. The minister said that he never blushes anywhere because there are so few women in politics in Slovenia. Let's just say we believe him. But you could blush, even more, you should blush. I remember well the last time we talked about the Council of Europe. It was precisely our delegation in the previous Council of Europe mandate that had to bear the burden of the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that delegations that were not properly and sexually constituted did not have the right to vote. And in the previous term, the delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia was composed of men. Then someone had to resign their seat to join the delegation of the Slovenian National Party from the previous mandate. We also stuttered in Europe in the interim period before the elections to the European Parliament, in which we also participated, when again our delegation of our Members was a temporary delegation to the European Parliament, so that they were only men. And that's where we listened to the critics. That is why it is good that we are in the EU, which is why it is good that we are in Europe. If we ourselves do not know how to put things the way we should, at least in some way we are forced by the EU to do so. But we're acting hypocritical here. What we have done for elections to the European Parliament is something we want to stand up for in the world and in a civilized Europe, and what we need for domestic use is not so important, we will do well in the old ways. So, as few women as possible on the candidate list, as few women as possible in the electorate places and as few members as possible in the national assembly or in the most important political functions. I'm not gonna say anything better before. See how many ministers we have been able to deal with in the present and in the previous governments of the Republic of Slovenia. They were very rare. And now we only have one. I don't agree that it's an anomaly if the profession is feminized. I also think that we cannot directly compare the feminisation of certain professions with the machisation of politics. Politics is something else than a profession. You decide for yourself a certain profession, here plays several factors an important role. But it is different in politics, and democracy, if indeed true, has this task to ensure that political representation is as adequate as possible. Sad is this picture that we are listening to today and is really just a mirror of what we are actually living and experiencing in our society. As far as the law we're talking about today is concerned, I'd say so. The Minister wonders why we talk so much about quotas, so-called women's quotas. I'll say it straight: it's the only thing that's even meaningful in this marriage. The law is a single cosmetics, and it's a cheap cosmetics. Therefore, there was no need to change the law, which we know must be reached by a two-thirds majority of the Members present. It is a waste of effort for these minimum achievements that we will implement with this change. You know, whether that box is clear or not, we could have waited a little longer for this transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u253	Thank you. The replica first. Mr. Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u254	Thank you very much, President. Dear Mrs Beblereva, I don't know if you think that quotas will save more members of the National Assembly, more saints, more mayors, in my opinion, you are very wrong. Secondly, I personally regret that there is no woman in this small group of ours, and we have tried very hard to do something and we have failed. I hope that the next term will be better, including at the expense of these quotas. I hope it gets better. But I'm afraid these quotas won't do any good. Finally, respectable Beblereva, I want as many municipal councillors as possible to all women in future local elections. I want to be honest with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u255	Thank you. Mr. Kokalj, I didn't hear you called. He was. Yes, there you go. [[The ad from the bench.]] You have not been quoted and therefore I propose to include you in the debate. [[...]] It'll be your turn soon. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u256	Thank you. First of all, it's about flushing. Mrs Bebler, I did not say that I am not blushing because there are not enough women in politics in Slovenia, but that I have never, and I will never blush because we do not have quotas. But it's true that I don't blush because of the first one, but I don't like it. I'd rather see more women in politics than there are. Besides, I think we should just let women decide whether they want to go to politics or not. And since at least as many of them are capable of men, the parties will also like to take them to the candidate list. I don't doubt that at all. As far as cosmetics is concerned. Explain, for example, to those 10,000 who now need to exercise their electoral rights on Sunday when elections, the way under their feet, are about 50, 100, 150 kilometers away. Tell 10,000 Slovenian voters in overseas countries who so far have almost been unable to exercise electoral rights that this is cosmetics. Just because your attitude towards these issues, which may seem to be really small, is what it is, if it's some insignificant cosmetics, we have a very, very liberal country today. We've got a lot of bureaucratic obstacles, because you're looking at things like it's some insignificant cosmetics. Mr Anderlič will, of course, say that it is my fault, anyway, because I was Secretary of State because I ran one Directorate or one Office at the Ministry of the Interior. You can imagine how I fought mills in the wind when it came to cosmetics. Whenever there was such a thing, whenever there was room for improvement, which is good for people, and at first glance it might be a little bit important, it was exactly that reaction: it was launched with a hand and it was said, it doesn't matter, it's cosmetics.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u257	Thank you. Mr Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u258	Thank you so much for saying that. The bill states that the minimum quota for one sex, which must be included on the candidate list, is 35%. The amendment says that this minimum share should be 40%. I myself think that this difference is 5% for such a long debate is really irrelevant and this is a debate on the backdrop of the shadow. I am aware that it can also be that quotas are being introduced and enacted, that this may also be a grey zone of constitutional gender equality. If something is forced to do so, it may also be a matter of constitutional judgment if someone raises that question with the Constitutional Court. I understand, however, that this proposal is in some way an incentive for both sexes to be involved as much as possible in political work and that this is some reason to justify this introduction. However, I think that this debate on whether it's 35 or 40, and of course we need to know what has already been said that this is just a minimum share, but of course everyone can also place a higher share, but not more than 65%. Before that, I think my colleague Janc said that 70% or 80% could as well. That's not because if we have a minimum, we have a maximum. So in that context, the thing is open. However, I think that no matter how much we set this minimum limit, the minimum framework for these shares will certainly be a very decisive and significant impact of women, if we talk about women, on politics, regardless of how much these quotas are. Just like he always was. Even if women were not at the forefront, they were in the background and, of course, they could have had an even more decisive influence in the background. But the joke's on the side. Earlier, a parliamentary delegation was mentioned in the Council of Europe, where there was 100% participation in the previous term, i.e. all members were men, represented only one sex. But in this mandate, the situation is the same, only that one sex has replaced another sex. Just to say that in this mandate all members of the Parliamentary Delegation of the Council of Europe are members of one sex, as they were in the previous term, only the sex has changed. [[..]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Two men are substitutes. [[...]] But I'm talking about members. Ma'am, I'm already mixing it up because it's very similar to what you're saying, but let me say it to the end, and then you can answer it. I believe that this is actually a debate that is actually irrelevant. However, if you feel that there is something else to be said about this, then I am Mrs Tretrate, who is so long and comprehensive to us about why instead of the lower limit of 35, you need 40, and you may also need my time, because you are running out of time, otherwise you would probably be given further clarifications and I can also give you my time at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u259	Mrs. Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u260	Mr Rugelj, I thank you for two very clear statements today that we have little democracy in Slovenia and that it is nice that we are all human. Today we have heard that we are people and women in Parliament. With regard to doubt and dilemma, as my forerunner has pointed out, as well as Mr Rugelj, about possible unconstitutionality. You can't have such a short memory, though! We went to amend the Constitution with almost 90%, even more, the percentage consensus in the previous term. We have changed the Constitution precisely because of experience from other countries and also because of our own knowledge, because of the problems that might have occurred if we had on the table the law that we have today, when we were talking about elections to the European Parliament or elections to local authorities, I would not have disputed with the Constitution any corrections and instruments for balanced representation in public decision-making places. That's why we changed the constitution. Under this amendment, you almost all signed. We were unanimous. And this was the first step, these were procedures that were not as thoughtful as today's so intolerable ease you're facing with this so insignificant question. It was a tactic, it was a way to use instruments to make certain adjustments that we obviously need, even though you all underestimate them. And these constitutional changes have now taken place with Article 43, which allows for derogations from the so-called equality or positive discrimination. But at that time it was far, as it will be once in the future, the moment when you decided with great ease to change the constitution on regions and landscapes, with great enthusiasm, when we then before implementation and solutions, how many landscapes, what to pass on, why, how will it be harder? At that time, changes in the Constitution may feel more distant. As far as feminization is concerned, or this perception of women’s predominance in certain professions. Don't forget, and I don't hear it for the first time today in this kind of relatively short time and memory in Parliamentary Halls. When it came to feminization of the profession, it was meant to manipulate the term. There are too many women employed in the judiciary, so it's not long since we heard this statement, but today the minister, at some point not, that's why there's a backlog. When it was said that we were going to a referendum to close trade on Sundays, it was only about trades, about trade workers, you finally once respected the correct pronunciation and gender distinction. Shops are the ones that have to be at home because in this profession, in stores, women work in health care the same way and so forth. That's why it's all wrong there. So with this feminization and planning characterization, what is feminized in professions, and what is not, please be careful. Let me just return one more point, which was quite clumsy, Mr Kokalja. As Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs and as a person who travels a lot, you obviously do not travel enough or talk to the wrong people or you do not have a wide range of interlocutors, as the Minister obviously does not. True, not all countries have laws in this area. Some of them have them. Those who now have the highest representation of women in their national parliaments, that is to say those who now have the highest representation of women in their national parliaments, that is to say, those who reach almost 50% are indeed countries that no longer have tools in their laws because they do not need to. They started in the '60s, they have precise rules in their clients and in their statutes, but they're high up front. They've got others. And those who are 22 places ahead of us. Currently, Slovenia ranks 22nd after the representation of women in Parliament. Before us not only Czechs, not only Lithuania, Portugal, Estonia, Poland, Luxembourg, Ireland and so on, but also clear countries with a large and cultured tradition and with great sensitivity to this issue, which, I doubt if it would happen at this level, to say today we have some starless amendment here on the table that we need to talk about. I don't know if there's only women left, but there's some democracy behind the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u261	Mr. Rugelj, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u262	They talked about me. It wasn't a replica, it was Mrs. Shirca's debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u263	That's up to me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u264	Thank you very much. I've already stressed it once, and I think the marriage is very good. 35% is the minimum quota we have to set. Everyone, including the LDS party or the party of the Social Democrats or anyone has the right to place more, including 65%. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I can and I don't think anyone's stopping them. And if so [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u265	I'd ask nicely, Mr. Rugelj speaks, and please calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u266	Thank you very much. I think you're thinking differently than you say. Because if you think the way you say it today, at least 50% of the women on the lists would be on the list, and I think it would be right to have them according to what you're defending. But I can't wait to see what you're really gonna do. All I see here is these options. What I was talking about earlier about democracy. Look, you're actually separating men and women here today, you're separating them. I've talked to a lot of women and men, because unfortunately we're talking about them in some way, and I tell you, everybody says that it's not necessary to do what we do. But in terms of women's increased engagement, I think it's okay to set some criteria and some norms, and we'll also promote greater women's engagement. I think it's more than a third, that's a good third, which is legally determined, that there's just enough for that, and then when time brings its, when women want to participate in politics, they'll have the same opportunities as they already have today. It's just today, unfortunately, that's not what everyone wants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u267	Mr. Kokalj, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u268	First of all, I thank you, as the third president, for giving me today the first opportunity to replicate, even though I have been under all the rules - and also in this doubt, Mr Anderlič. I'd just like to explain what I'm saying. I mentioned three countries with which I accidentally spoke to representatives of parliaments. I didn't speak for the EU. I think that these countries are particularly comparable after the period in which they have the option of electoral rights. We also have only 16 years of electoral rights and I do not think that we can compare ourselves with the Scandinavian countries in terms of this process, and I think that this statement is correct. I don't know the history of Sweden, Finland, Denmark and so on. Maybe he does, maybe he doesn't. The fact that you have said that they no longer have these laws is that they do not have it, but I think it is a shame that the debate has focused on some kind of confrontation between a man and a woman principle. We have little to do with Mrs Shirca's initial introduction, and I think that perhaps today was even too much time spent on some infertile conversation. I really think that 5% was just a reason, but we have an interesting debate, maybe more for the public than we are going to solve with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u269	Mr. Pike has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u270	It's an interesting discussion, by going over the side of the road several times. I think that now the debate is more or less about the amendments, and I will at least try to keep this avertably, and I think our coalition proposal is okay, that it is balanced, that it is too much to interfere and with the dosage quotas is wrong. So I'm gonna tell you, and I'm gonna try and explain why. Especially because no coercion or coercion is good in this case. Women's decision on politics needs to be matured in society. It is right to encourage this. I don't have a problem with that, because now we have a male quota on the local list in our environment, and I have two men out of five and three women on the list. So, I feel absolutely good about myself in a woman's society and, say, I'd like to see more women in our parliament, but Mr. Anderlich, that's not so when you're telling me [[...]] [[The voice from the hall.]] Yes, Mr Anderlič, if you were very practical, we would put you in an elective place and now there would be a lot less men there and more women in the Liberal Democracy. [[...]] That's right. It's okay. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u271	I'd like to ask if you're discussing this.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u272	I will point out once again that I think that the proposal is okay, that it is balanced, that the coercion is wrong and that it is necessary to achieve this in society over time and that we all have something to contribute to it. But we can all contribute in practice, not in theory. But in theory, it's more difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u273	Mr. Anderlich, you have the floor now. Because you've been reported before.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u274	Well, that's how it happens! Gentlemen say we're talking about irrelevant things, but why are we talking about irrelevant things, and what is the purpose of this exercise? This exercise is intended for fans, which is designed to impress the public with how we seriously change the electoral law. No, Mr. Secretary, no! Numbers manipulation - you listed it and Mr. Pajk listed it - out of 49 members of the coalition is, you know, how many women? Four. Calculate the percentage, if you don't, I'll tell you how much it is. One Member is a substitute, which means you can also take that into account. Because, in your discussion earlier, you said how you can talk among the ten Members of one parliamentary group about inadequate representation, because there are two Members. There are 3 Members and 2 alternates between the 23 Members and the Members. What are those numbers? What's the statistics say? We are quite poor, as far as this is concerned, and as a man I am disappointed that Mrs. Uhanova, Mrs. Darja, Mrs. Majda, Mrs. Kuclerova and so on - they are here to prove that one is right, that there is greater representation, and how others are daring to say that "what do you want, women do not decide" and "it is one serious bureaucracy with which we have nothing, it is the previous system made by the Secretary of State". I sat with him several times when we talked about changes to the electoral law, about the referendum law and so on. And now he calmly says, "I have nothing to do with this." Gentlemen - I save the ladies in this case - it is not an honor to negotiate for 35, 40 or 10 or I do not know what, or as "anyone who decides to enter politics will be welcome". No, that's not the point. Because that local list of five candidates and candidates doesn't mean anything. It doesn't mean anything if Mr. Pike comes first. Because it is a system whereby this gentleman is automatically elected in the first place, and preferences can mean that if this lady, who is on the fifth place on your list, is so convincing in the local environment that she skips. But he won't. He is the president of the SDS in the local environment, he is a municipal councilman, he has all the appointments on local television, he has all the terms on local radio, and God forbid that in democracy he should not be mentioned first as a state MP. But here at the end of the day, it's just a case. No, it's our responsibility, gentlemen! It's our responsibility. I have no good or bad conscience here, for I do not contribute to making the marriage better. Mr Virant knows well that the debate has been ongoing for a long time to really change the electoral law, in order for voters and voters to have a more decisive impact on the choice of Members and Members. We don't do that with this law. If it were different from when you represented the law in our parliamentary group when you said we would like to do it, and I believe that these are your starting points from four to five years ago when you were Secretary of State to radically change the electoral system, but you know, this is not going through in our parliamentary groups, in the coalition it is not going through that. Let's give these cosmetics and make these little changes, and we'll show that we've changed the electoral system. This is a small contribution, including those clear boxes, and the transparent boxes are also transparent, but now I ask you a question, is it really possible at a time when we are a democratic country and when we have electoral commissions, party observers and everyone else on the voter list, to really gain that there are transparent election boxes, so it is a mistrust. [[...]] So we're in some non-democratic system where we need to see and of course see it from the authorities, who's going to throw some kind of leaf into this box, to know if it's going to be a bad choice, that the punishment of God will come later. Is that why you don't work these boxes? Because in all these years of elections, it was possible that every civil duty had been carried out according to his conscience; not that those who were at the polling station were watching and watching, if someone did not close the voice well by accident, and that they saw how he voted and came to some February of the SDS local and found that an old man, poor man, had seen poorly and surrounded him wrongly, threw him in and then grabbed him, Oops, and you made no mistake, you were against us. You know how Jezek sang once, you know that story Jezkov, "You're not ours, you're not ours, because you threw in the wrong box" etc. Do you remember that? Don't you remember? Go learn a little! Ježek is ours - I hope to say - one of the major artists and Ježek had teaching stories. My intimate and modest wish is that the coalition in the composition of the SLS, NSI, DeSUS, SDS has more than 4 Members and Members of Parliament in the next term. And it is our duty, men, to admit that Peta is a substitute, by chance it happened, yes, Mr. Zicherl, to replace someone, she is not authentically elected, but rather replaces one gentleman who has been elected. [[...]] I'm sorry, I'm talking about the data. Because the minister had previously been vehemently explaining how they have a great percentage in New Slovenia, how we have a poor percentage in LDS. And I'm asking, what's the percentage in SDS, SLS, Desus? But you have a very good percentage in the coalition - I apologize to Marika! [[Back-up advertising.]] 50%? Marika is 100%. [[Laugh.]] But that's what we're talking about. I am sad that this discussion is accompanied by laughter, applause and the like. The numbers speak for themselves. So I don't think there's a claim on your part that says, "Well, when women decide to go to politics, they'll go to the list and they'll be elected." That's about what the Gorenjaks say: [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] No, no, I didn't mention you, and I think you're bad at Gorenj'c because you're on the border. When Gorenj'c said there in the background, "Oh, my God, if I could win the lottery," and again, "or I could win the lottery." Nothing, nothing, and he just doesn't. And then God gets angry and says, "For God's sake, buy me a fortune and you'll win for sure." And you put our esteemed lady on the list, and perhaps you will!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u275	Mr. Secretary has asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u276	Thank you. Well, this debate reminded me of the title of that movie "Look who's talking" or "Look who's talking." First of all, I would advise you to really sweep the quota before your threshold because your party has a total of 23 elected Members and Members of Parliament or a percentage of 13.04. So, first of all, you always have to put it in front of your own doorstep before you throw it in front of someone else's. Another time. When we talk about our role in electoral legislation, let me remind you that in the last term, a significant change in the electoral system has been proposed, as well as all the so-called cosmetic changes that I think are very important for voters, obviously not. And, look, just on behalf of Anton Anderlič, the then LDS leader, there are two lines in the vote. Because it was at that time that the head of the parliamentary group had an indemnity and could not support the changes in the electoral system. As for the transparent election box, I would suggest that you find a difference in the dictionary of the Slovenian book language between the word "transparent" and "transparent". Transparent is not the same as transparent.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u277	Mr Pike has a replica to implement Mr Anderlich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u278	Thank you, Chairman. I would tell my colleague Anderlich that if we had three MPs and one is a substitute, that replacement had to be in a place of choice, otherwise we wouldn't have come to the National Assembly. If she were there in an impossible place, she wouldn't be. That means she was. And thank him, too, for hooking me up a little bit into the stars and adding more things to me than I actually have in the local environment. I really thank him for that, but it wouldn't be necessary for her to be overly grateful. But I only took care of a woman's quota once in my life and when I got married, yes. Otherwise, I always look at my fellowmen according to their abilities, especially their abilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u279	Mr. Anderlich, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u280	I could have had six votes in my previous term, Mr Virant, and I would not have succeeded in that feat you were planning. I could've had six. And also, because it was a similar scam to now - or, I'm not going to say fraud, that's maybe a rough word, manipulation, that we're changing, I don't know what's big, but we didn't have a plan for it. The then government, with you at the head of the State Secretary, who was in charge of these matters. Three months before the election, you resigned because you had so much conscience. I must be honest with you that you would probably be embarrassed if you stayed until the election as Secretary of State and then continued what you had previously successfully blocked in the new government. But that's another thing. I took this lesson, transparently and transparently, so I thank you for your advice here as well. But in the end, it's not about how many elected women there are in Parliament. It's about how and how the leaves are made up. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia had already placed a third of women on the candidate lists in its statutes. You can go look at this in 1992 Yes, the statute is important. [[...]] When you go to the administrative unit and the statute, and Mr Virant knows this very well when you bring the status into registration as a political party, it must be clearly written there, by what rule the candidate lists are drawn up, how with the authorities, how with all the procedure. And the LDS had, believe it or not, over a third representation. And I still don't understand how you say it's since 49, let's take five, more women than 23, women three, that there's more to the government coalition. If you can prove it, I'll take it from Mr. Mohet right away, so, I'll order math training for the whole summer if you prove that it's from 49, five more [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u281	Mr. Anderlich, time's up. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u282	I don't know where to start. First of all, in his efforts to magnify my role in the mandate of the previous government, Mr Anderlič went now even so far as to put me in charge of the former government for a moment when he said, "Government, with you principle." That's very interesting to hear. That's literally what was said. Secondly, I have worked very hard in a number of areas, there is also documentation to eliminate some bureaucratic nonsense, and it has always been said that these are irrelevant things, that it is already too late, that it is agreed and so on. I still vividly remember the debate on car stickers at the time that the law was in force, but there was a time when the stickers had not yet been introduced to cancel, and then I warned Minister Bohinec about this, and he gave me a very clear signal that it was too late for this debate, and I felt like he was going to say it, which is already agreed on, and this is already agreed. And a similar story is with location information and similar bureaucratic nonsense, but let's just leave it. Three months before the elections, I gave up for a very clear reason, when I decided to go to politics, and that was before the elections, when I decided to join the electoral campaign, then I resigned from my position in the government to keep the situation clean. Where, for whom I'm rooting, if I may say so, that's how you've probably known and seen each other all along. But as far as math is concerned, the thing is, you have to have a little look at the magnetogram again, what I said. You can't attribute words I didn't say. I did not say that the coalition has more Members than you have, I said that I find very amusing when a member of the party that has 13% of the MPs, that is, women in the parliamentary group, reads the left-wing members from a party that has 22% of the women in the parliamentary group. That's all I said. This is actually a state, these are numbers, dry, "hard data," as they say, hard, dry, unforgivable numbers. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u283	Once again, I would like to point out that we are talking about Article 10 and the amendments to Article 10. And please, if this is how we continue these discussions, then it will not be the turn of those who have applied for the debate. You want a replica, Mr. Anderlich?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u284	Of course not, but it is necessary to clarify whether it is an eccentric error or a delusion. You know, stickers have as much to do with horse racing as we think about whether the sun will rise tomorrow morning or not. It'll work. You were trying to argue with the stickers. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u285	Excuse me, Mr. Anderlich. Please, once again, from what was in the previous term, from the stickers and so on, we are talking about Article 10. And please, if there's a replica of the Minister's execution on Article 10.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u286	I just wanted to say that this article has nothing to do with the stickers mentioned by Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u287	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u288	But I'll tell you again that when we go looking at numbers, we need to look at the whole Parliament. Not only is it to single out one party, another party and there is simply not enough representation of women in this House. And this is our common concern not the individual party and on this exam we all fell together and I hope it will be better in the future. It'd be better than 40 than 35, I hope you vote it out, and that would be right.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u289	And our common ground. Mr. Ljublješek, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u290	Thank you very much. I was really wondering if I would decide to discuss this, given that I have the feeling that when we talk about women's quotas, when we talk about women's quotas, we're male chauvinists. I'm really afraid that with my debate on women's quotas in the term "disputed" to respectable colleagues, I really wouldn't want to get black spots with you. I would really like there to be more women in this House, I would like to have two colleagues on my left and right, I would feel good, even though I feel very good with both colleagues. I think there have been too many words about these women's quotas at first reading as well as today. Mrs Shirca's and Mrs Potrate's introductory explanations were good, I was satisfied, and I would be sure that they are based on the right assumptions and women's quotas or quotas are certainly not the right assumption in terms of why there are not enough women in politics. I think that quotas are unnecessary, I think, personally, even if women are offensive, even today's debates, as if the colleagues were somehow asking for these quotas, I think they are even discriminatory, and I think that the existing legislation is nowhere to prevent women from being included in politics forever. No law prevents this, no man prevents women from getting involved in politics. Why don't larger numbers include where the causes are? Women probably have other priorities, these are personal reasons, priority must be family, private life, non-exposure to the environment, to the public. Where are the reasons why a woman's electoral database, which is over 51%, doesn't support women? Perhaps even if there were more women on the lists, there would be a greater choice and this matter would be slightly improved. So why don't women vote for women? I stand by my own belief, my own personal belief, that you can't achieve anything by coerced marriage or achieve very little. And these quotas are an administrative measure, and this is a legal coercion that will not bring success. I would have expected it to be done, perhaps even on the basis of today's debate, that there would be a sociologist who would do a certain professional analysis that would show where the reasons were. And on the basis of these causes, slowly conditions are created for women to be slowly involved in politics as well. I myself will support any measure that will help to ensure that more women are involved in politics. And I think this first measure, 35%, is the first measure that will help make more women in politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u291	Mr. Mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u292	I also think that a long debate on this is not necessary, but I will make use of the time available so as not to be distributed by 20 candidates in the end. In fact, I must say that although we have only 20% of women with the Hungarian Nationality Group, I must say that there are not two of the four Members sitting here just by chance. For in the elections we put them on the constituencies and achieved the second and third results by number of votes, and only because of the unequal distribution of the number of voters across the constituencies were they not elected. We do not have a problem with putting on women's election candidates, but the problem is that if anyone wants to, they can discriminate against women in such a way as to put them in less interesting places. And given that, despite the seemingly pointless percentage that we would set up, I think that this possibility of manipulation or planned discrimination falls by increasing the percentage to half, because we simply cannot go through it, given that we are supposed to be equal. From this point of view, I myself will support this amendment, although I do not believe it will be accepted and I do not want to have bad conscience from this point of view, precisely because no woman has been able to bring us into Parliament in any way or other. It is true, however, that I myself believe that often a female candidate is entangled between a decision between home and family or between a profession and politics, because, in my opinion, ambitious women, and also practice shows that they prefer to go to the economy or in the profession to achieve as much as possible in a policy where, among other things, wages are lower than on those sides. There is no such reward as to draw women who are very rational and understand what it means to pay for an hour where Members are close to the power plant. This may also be the reason why they do not run for Members in any elections. Many of you laugh, but I have calculated this several times, and I am close to the truth about this, especially when it comes to engaged Members and the time to put into that prize. But I must say that, despite the fact that there is no absolute way of achieving the right sex ratio in parliaments or in government services, ministerial positions, etc., there is no established quorum everywhere, if I may say, set in advance, I think that many have been introduced for this reason and that it could help and, if it can help, we have no objection. By the way, we think that the law must be supported in any case, it brings certain technical improvements to the elections, and we think that something will be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u293	Mr Tercheon also applied for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u294	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll try to be brief. I have to say that I find it difficult to understand this bartering with these percentages and that in some ways, in my opinion, it's debilitating whether it's 35 or 40 percent. I have to, I would say, sort of circle around the claims made by Members of the ruling coalition that it is necessary to wait for the situation to mature and I don't know what. After all, Slovenia is one of the most developed countries! I don't know what to wait for, because this development has also brought some problems that we also have in this area. We note that we have too little representation of women in politics, on the other hand we have professions that are fully feminized, and it is likely that future development will bring more. I must say that I do not understand and that we are very unhappy in turning equality into numbers because this is what this law is about. In fact, these numbers are not comparable to anything, the population majority, because this is what we get minority quotas. That's practically incomprehensible, I think. Mr. Vice President, you obviously can't hear me if you calm down there. Thank you. So, again, it's hard to understand that the population majority has to fight for some minority quotas. I understand this, however, that this is somehow a gradual desire to get some principled and actual equality in politics, but this story cannot end in any other way than to get some comparable criteria. And of course I wonder if we would make one system that would be comparable to something, and I wonder why we would not introduce the system 50:50 if we were talking about equality. Or, why don't we introduce a system 51,13:48,87, such as sex? This can be measured before each election at the end of the day and thus put an application for candidate lists, if there must already be quotas. Because, according to our electoral system for the National Assembly, this still means that one or the other sex, in extreme cases, could not be in Parliament at all, because the electorate is in the final stage of the decision. I don't understand why we have to barter with these minority quotas that are not comparable to anything and why we don't actually introduce the right quotas, such as those that would be comparable to the number of people or sex, 50-50, or why we should stop talking about it, which could also be good in some way.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u295	Mr. Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u296	Thank you very much. I'd like to pick up just for a moment. I will not support the amendment, because it makes what we are about to legislate even more difficult and will have a major problem at local level. Of course, we did not want to do this, but it seemed right for us to correct the law in this sense. However, I must say that I was very surprised by what I heard from my fellow Member, Anderlich, who here admitted that, by amending the law proposed in the previous term, they had no intention of actually following what is enshrined in the Constitution. And today, somehow here, he's questioning our conscience and saying that these adjustments in this marriage are just cosmetic. I remember, too, that at that time, as the leader of the parliamentary group for those changes he said today that they were not taken seriously, he did not vote, but put his cell phone on his ear at the time of the vote and left the Chamber. Well, that surprised me very much, and of course it was hypocrisy. Now I don't know if he's had complete amnesia about it or whether it's old senility. Well, I would expect him to be so honest because he says that to others, and he doesn't mention what he did if he doesn't tell the truth. Not that it points to others today, but that he, as the leader of the largest party in the then government coalition, acted differently and even admitted here today that he did not have the will to change anything about what they had adopted and registered in the constitution, even in the legislative field. So we have proposed what we, of course, had consensus in the government coalition and what we think will be adopted today. And this quota change is, of course, a very important and very big change in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u297	Mr. Anderlich, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u298	The change is very great for those who have never believed that it would be right for both sexes to participate equally in political activities, in public matters, to decide together, because, of course, it is an extremely masturbating party. But when you talk about what happened, you have to be precise, Mr. Sok. Do not be offended by who he left behind, and you must state precisely what was the subject of the amendments to the electoral legislation almost four years ago. Certainly not this change, which is cosmetic, which is seemingly truly manipulative. And this is about this: the debate is unnecessary, but it is right that people deal with this debate, that they listen and that we can, in the background, this ruling coalition, rule, do everything we do, in the human resources, financial and all other areas. That's why this law is important. In order for the public to point out tonight and tomorrow what a change in electoral legislation this government has just proposed - something big. I'm talking about no, and when I'm talking about what you're saying, you didn't have a purpose in the previous term! Of course, it was a serious purpose - not Mr. Sok, go read the magnetogram and you will see that at that time and also at those meetings where coordination is not a matter of coalition and opposition, but when it comes to the issue of two-thirds majority, when it comes to the issue of state policy as such, it would be just as it was in the previous term - and you are at those meetings when we spoke about electoral legislation, sitting down, now you thought that with those 49 votes you could come, change legislation in a vehement way and say what you did. No, it's just one thing: do we all think it's right - in this amendment, we're talking about the amendment, but not about what happened four years ago and so many years ago - whether it's right that the representation of the opposite sex, so to speak, is talking about equal representation that will reach 40% and you're against it. So you're against more women participating in public functions in the current case, that's all it is. But we are for this to increase to 40% to stimulate all the customers. As LDS, we have already legislated this at our client congress with our statutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u299	I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote, which is at 19.25 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u300	Dear Members and Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must shine on the right hand side of the card. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the Assembly will vote on the law on international development cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia [[under point 3]] Done on Friday, 23 June 2006, in the framework of the vote. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on employment and unemployment insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 2. Mr. Rob, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u301	Dear Members and honourable Members! Allow me to explain very briefly the reasons why we have decided to prepare this amendment. So, in the current law, the active employment policy has been the fundamental right of the unemployed person in Slovenia. This was an important commitment of the Employment Office, the Ministry of Labour and everyone who implemented an active employment policy in Slovenia. Following the new proposal and amendments to the law, those who are unemployed will be included in the active employment policy only through programmes and in accordance with the programme to be prepared by the Employment Service and approved by the Minister responsible for work. We believe that this is bad, that this is not good and that it reduces the chances of including those who are unemployed in active employment policy programmes. Last but not least, I have already presented to you in the morning some specific cases and comparisons, as shown in the government's analysis, that everything in the field of employment, in the area of the resolution of unemployment problems, is earmarked by the effective Member States of the European Union for an active employment policy and an even greater share of these funds in the gross domestic product. So in the House of Representatives, on the one hand, we support those measures which constitute an obligation for those who are unemployed to participate in active employment policy programmes, to take up work and to be responsible. On the other hand, we are committed, we are fighting and we are going to fight for the unemployed to have the opportunity to participate in employment policy programmes, to get the opportunity and opportunity to get rid of the problems they are in, and from the life situation they are in. To make this easier to achieve, of course, we need an active employment policy. And it will be easier to realize and more easily secure funds for it if we define it as the fundamental right of all those who are unemployed. I therefore appeal to all of you to support this amendment to support this opportunity and the opportunity for the unemployed to be included in active employment policy programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u302	We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 39. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on amendment number 1 to Article 4 of the first-signed Vila Rezman Group. Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u303	Thank you very much. If you allow me, colleagues and colleagues, not to interpret the amendment or the position of the Group of Members on each amendment to Article 6, I say that we will vote in favour of all the amendments tabled by the three opposition parties and the group of Members with the first-signed Rezman. We will vote for them in order to ensure that the agreement between the social partners is respected, this is a government and students made with regard to the possibility of further student work, regarding the possibility of further funding of the student organisation. The solutions proposed by the ruling coalition without DeSUS, with the support of the government or the competent minister, not only constitute a breach of the agreements, but also a setback, a real failure to finance many student activities, which mean ensuring their cultural work, their sporting activities, the operation of their student clubs, which we know at the top of everything in many ways, including many social assistance to students and their families. It is reckless for the authorities and the government to solve problems of discontent that students have resisted and have not been prepared to accept all the solutions that they have proposed both through the thumb and with a firm hand in order to prevent their independence and political action. I also hope, in view of the discussions that have taken place today, that decisions will indeed be taken that will leave this article open, but not only that, but that they will leave this article open and enough time for a common language to be found among the partners in Parliament, especially with the student organisation and the content solutions that will be acceptable for the majority. Members and Members of the Social Democrats will therefore support and expect at least one of the proposed solutions to be adopted in order to find an acceptable solution later on in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u304	Mr. Mag. Mr Gniedaršič on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u305	Thank you very much, Chairman. Our parliamentary group will support this amendment mainly because the Committee has adopted a different solution than it has been coordinated in the negotiations with the student organisation, which is not good, given that the ministry and the government in this way are losing confidence when negotiating with the partners in the process. We also think that overnight the dramatic reduction in funds to be spent by the student organisation for its research activities is a bad solution, and this is just what is being proposed right now. We think it would be right and fair that, when trying to change the agreed procedure, we should discuss it again with the student organisation and if it agreed to such a solution, then we would also experience our support. Since this has not happened, we think it is right that what has been agreed is to determine in this time available in the next period whether the system works, whether there will be more money for scholarships, whether there will be a reduction in the volume of student work and whether it will be possible to employ students also through the employment agency, for which we have information that this moment and for some time will not be able to organise this job. It is also not necessary that there is no black forecast that there may be a significant reduction in student work, as smaller services will fail. And if that's the case, then the calculation that's supposed to mean more money for scholarships is just hypothetical and it doesn't have to be realized. And lastly, we are convinced that students are certainly not against having more scholarships and have chosen, so they oppose this solution probably very argumentative in the sense of seeing possible negative consequences, and because in any case it is about their benefit, or through scholarships or through money for what they are already doing, it is right that it is their decision, their choice, their landing, their consent. In this sense, we will support this amendment, which has also been prepared for this purpose, and we think that this must be supported in a broader sense in order not to waste our confidence in this very important civil society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u306	Mr. Gulic, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u307	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I think that this amendment should be supported primarily because it prevents everything that has been built in all these years, infrastructure, then all student activity, not just here in Ljubljana or Maribor, in these larger centres, but mainly in the countryside. I know exactly what will happen to student clubs in other places, under what social pressure they will not only be students who are already handicapped in some way, because it certainly costs a lot more to study elsewhere than if you are at home in Ljubljana or Maribor. All these things will disappear slowly, and on the other hand they will mean even more student work, only now it will not be as controlled as it has been so far, but it will become even grayer or blacker. Basically, you're breaking up a system that worked relatively well. Those errors that have occurred could be removed entirely differently by regular inspection services. And it turns out that the student population is completely in your way, not only social, but also the one you call natural. Most of these are stigmatized humanistic studies with one exception, and I will not say which one, because we have talked about this a lot. At the same time, all you're doing right now is a collective punishment for being students against the current government.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u308	Mrs. Žginer Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u309	Thank you so much for saying that. I will speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, which supports the amendments tabled, the amendments tabled by all three opposition groups and the amendments tabled in cooperation with the coalition parties, the DeSUS and the Slovenian People's Party. The fact is, I will stress once again, the content of this Article without adopted amendments is inconsistent; it is not coordinated with the social partners and with the students concerned by the content of this Article. Let me repeat in explanation that this is an important marriage. The unions warned that it was even a marriage. It's not fair from this government, from this minister - Minister Drobnič, it's not fair on your part - to talk about honesty, how honest we are. On the other hand, change your attitude overnight. 6.6. You advocated solutions such as [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u310	Mrs Žgajner, I would like to ask you to explain your voice and not to polymise with Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u311	Mr President, allow me to explain why the Slovenian National Party will vote in favour of [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u312	Please, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u313	Amendments tabled. [[...]] Let me tell you some facts and one of the important facts is that Minister 6.6 speaks like this after he has aligned himself with the social partners, students, not least with the partners in the development partnership. 7.6. The Minister speaks differently. And today we have the content [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u314	Mrs. Žgajner, I'm warning you again, or I'll take your word for it. Please, please, if you'll please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u315	Mr President, I will agree, but allow me because the content of this article is inconsistent. She's uncoordinated because of the Minister's will or maybe because he got instructions from above. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, we will vote in favour of amendments in the Slovenian National Party, which we have prepared in cooperation with the student organisation, not least with some coalition partners who have gathered so much wisdom that they have gone to the amendments or to return the content of the law to the existing content.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u316	Mr. Kangler, you have the floor. On behalf of the delegation? In my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u317	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I myself will support the amendment under Article 4, the amendment of the Group of Members. I signed it myself. And I signed it for a number of reasons. For the first time in my personal conviction, because I think I am good, smart, because I have already made it clear in the debate itself in the National Assembly that I fear drastic interventions with this law, which will also intervene in the student work at the time of adoption, not only those who have already completed their studies. The second thing is, we give the possibility if we accept this amendment for third reading, we are somehow trying to reach what we have or are, in politics on the one hand, and on the other hand, the student organisation has also agreed. In politics, it doesn't matter who signs anything. In politics, what is agreed upon and what is respected is very important. And we need to respect the arrangements. This is a mirror of every serious policy and every face of politics must be such that it respects what it has promised. I am convinced that, due to the adoption of such an amendment, there must be no problem in the coalition, not in the opposition, and that this is an opportunity and an opportunity to correct what needs to be corrected by opening this article. As some of my fellow Members have pointed out in the debate itself, it would be wise and wise to accept this amendment, support it and try to agree on an amendment in the coalition as well. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u318	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u319	for the third reading and such a coordinated amendment, we should also accept it. [[...]] I will support this amendment myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u320	Mr. Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u321	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I will not support the amendment because I believe that this proposed division is appropriate and legal. The system itself is a kind of anomaly, as is the anomaly of this student work. I would say that it would be much smarter to agree on how to distribute 60, 70 or 80 billion that the state devotes to the student population, and everyone else benefits from it as students. The State cancels all taxes, all pension contributions, all health contributions. That's about twice the amount. No one has talked about this and we should agree that a part of the pension may be paid to students, a part of the health insurance that is mainly paid by the municipalities. Let's share. 30% of 80 billion is 24 billion. 30% of 8 or 6 billion is either two billion 400 or two billion 200. I think it's pointless and that we're going to have to agree on this student work and solve this system because it's pointless. I am not against student work, but it is necessary to place the normal situation that this work is also competitive in the market. In this way, I support students and I think they can get their resources for student work, for organisations and for all the needs of students in another way directly from the budget, not in relation to student work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u322	Mr. Zagorac, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u323	Thank you for your word. I will, of course, support the proposed amendments myself. The reason for that is quite something. But one has to be highlighted in particular. This is the Minister's implementation today, not only of implementation, but also of intervention. Several times during today's debate, the Minister forwarded to his ministry to cover up the cases that he was misleading us both here, 90 Members, as well as all those valued people who listened to our debate. This is one of the fundamental reasons why I will support the amendments. The second reason why I will support the amendments is that I have not been convinced by many debaters on the part of the ruling coalition. They didn't convince me because they simply read the texts that someone has prepared for them, and simply about the student work, about the student life, and about the study of the wrinkle. One of these is the one who mentioned that nowhere in Europe can we find such an arrangement as it is in Slovenia, and so far we have not been able to explain what these countries are like. And I doubt he'll come forward to explain his voice to me. Just because it's not written. Someone mentioned the right students. You know, there are also real Members. I believe all students are real students. Everyone goes to college with the intention of studying. All Members sitting here are true Members of Parliament, whether elected or appointed to this National Assembly. Someone was talking about modern exploitation. Is it possible that this law does not allow modern exploitation by the Roman Catholic Church when it comes to humanitarian work? Someone was talking about the public fund. Mr. Minister, you haven't told us how, who, how, what funds [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u324	I'd like to ask you nicely. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u325	He'll get the money from this fund. [[...]] And someone was talking about the political organizations that students are opening up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u326	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u327	Gentlemen, you have read from your ranks here as an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Sayovic, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u329	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman! Colleagues and colleagues! The amendment that regulates the student's work and keeps it, I'll be happy to support it. There are several reasons for this. Most importantly, if we have introduced a coordination institute, then a given word must be kept in every way and at all costs. If we are looking for bonds, as in this case, then we are taking on Slovenian policy credibility. I will also support the student work because I come from a congregation that has the highest unemployment rate in Gorenjska and the lowest personal income. I know what work means. Work is of great value. Why would they deny it to the students? Last but not least, I will support the work because about 700 student families in this country are helping and can survive because of their student work. Did we not say that Natalie and our descendants are a major and serious problem that we will deal with seriously and responsibly? There have been many irregularities that accompany this student work. But if someone breaks a fingernail, that's why you don't cut off his whole head. Irregularities must be demonstrated, detected and properly sanctioned. The reasons for maintaining this work could continue to be mentioned. But I think that's enough and let's support this. We will see how it works, and then we will be able to decide on further steps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u330	Dr. Slavinac, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u331	Thank you so much for saying that! The government's arguments have not convinced me either, so I will be very happy to support the amendments. I will support them because such a proposal without amendments does not solve what has often been said to be a scholarship policy. It is not right that students finance scholarships themselves. The scholarship must be provided from other sources. It is also not right to destroy student services mainly in places outside university centres in small places, because they are even more important there, as they also finance local student clubs. In particular, for Mursko Sobota, I know that the oldest student club in Slovenia, the former club of pomurski academics, will now be left with no important source of funds if the law is adopted in its intended form. And even a long-term scholarship fund won't have money for scholarships. These scholarships are pigeons on the roof, because the fund will not be charged with the money you predict here if student services do not work, but work will take over the employment agency. Another important thing is why I won't back this up. Because it is not compatible with the social partners, it is not consistent with the students. The form, as it was in line with the students, was later changed. The government in this place plays a dirty game with students and pulls them by the nose and students are not naive. Such measures will certainly not be disciplined by the government. No, there won't be, the other way around. That is why I support the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u332	Mr. Mag. Capuder. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u333	Thank you very much! As far as the students' work is concerned, I have to do it again. I think the work of the students stays and doesn't even stop. A student's job isn't over. However, it is the purpose of the changes proposed by members of the coalition, in particular that they take on student services, is said to be the intermediaries of the student work and to be taken on behalf of some individuals who have become rich at the expense of the student work. And I think that this division, as we suggested, accounts for 30% of the funding for the public scholarship fund, is given to students in particular. I think that's good. Now half the money from concession fees has been earmarked for the operation of student services. It should be mentioned that this money, the concession fee, is the money that the state has also given up on the well-being of student organisations and for the benefit of the student services that have abused this money. That is why we also support the measure proposed by the government to share the work of the student work through the employment agency. Because, I think the institution knows the situation in the labour market, it has the capacity to do so and, above all, all instruments to prevent abuse in the use of student work. By no means, these proposals that we have amended on the committee are not punishments for students. I think that this is, above all, an incentive for even better work by students through special means, which will be allocated to the public fund for student scholarships.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u334	Mr. Ziherl, you have the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u335	Thank you for your word! I will not support the amendments myself, because I do not want to support the irregularities observed so far in the field of student work. Overpayments were made through student travel, various fees were paid on a regular basis, they were used to hire students and so on. The financial scheme itself shows. At the factory where I was previously employed, 1,000 tolars were paid to the student per hour, and the student received 610 tolars. This means that at monthly employment, there were 72,000 tolls left of the student service for one paper, which was for one customer, and for one transfer of his salary. I certainly understand that student services continue to fight for such privileges. This method of funding was mainly maintained by student bureaucrats or these permanent officials. The letter we received was also signed by the previous president, although we can see in the media that his term has long expired, was not elected, or is no longer a credible interlocutor. Because of all the irregularities mentioned, or because we would like to introduce some more order in these or student work, a student’s work is necessary. During the holiday season, people who go on vacation have to be replaced, but there must be more order to eventually get a student or new funding for a scholarship. Basically, winning must be on the student side, not on the bureaucrat side. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u336	Mrs. Shirca, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u337	For the time being, Minister Petty Officer, Mendra, patsy and changes the concept that is not an anomaly. It's not an anomaly. But it's a special form of organization. I would even call it a flexible form of temporary employment, which benefits students to deserve to live easier, to benefit from the autonomy of the student organisation, to organise autonomously their social, cultural, educational and other activities that burden the country, to finance these activities and after the new scholarships or after the old building of student homes. It would therefore be foolish not to support such solutions that correct the broken words of the coalition or this very arrogant authority.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u338	Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u339	Thank you very much, Mr President! I will also support the amendments myself, because the government's arguments were simply false today. Unfortunately, the distinguished minister, I didn't find that out alone, many of the predecessors found before me that you actually hope to lie on the air. The law isn't in line with the students. Government Members, members of the government coalition, I would personally ask you not to look at the reminders you have received today, in those "plonk bricks" you have received and be so smart and vote for your conscience. If you didn't understand this, I would tell you this, in terms of what you're listening to on Sundays, "Help yourself, and God will help you." That's a scripture statement. Let the students help themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u340	There's something I'd like to ask you. It's hard to follow the 90s under the bench. So please, when you answer, raise your hand high. Please don't disagree. I don't want you to be, but please raise your hand so you can see it. Thank you, Mr. Stebe. Mr. Brenčič has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Under this law, a student’s work cannot and must not be terminated. It must also not endanger and eliminate the organisation of students and their autonomy through the products they offer. If this is resolved, the state will have to find a different source through public funds. Otherwise, it's not going to work. However, something is true that this amendment is not good and I cannot support it. First of all, because the key to sharing is unsettling for the providers - or should I say - of the intermediaries for student work, which has a lot of realisation. This split key is too large. On this basis, they will continue to generate excessive profits. Nor is it fair for the employment agency to create the same profit or even greater if the supply volume is transferred to the institution. Because with this amendment, we are now exposing this. Smaller services must certainly have this key. And even for student work the key doesn't have to be changed. But it must be set for content and justly for the right place. This amendment does not at all give this effect to the fact that the institution which has the instrumentation which is a state institution will charge you the same percentage for the intervention of work as all other small student services. That's not working. This amendment brings it. I can't support it. But I'll be 100% supportive of the amendment. I hope we're in large numbers. the eighth amendment to keep the article open. This Article must be processed in a substantive and deliberate manner during the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u342	Mr. Milan Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u343	Thank you, Chairman! So, I have to say, when I listen to this debate, I just can't understand that most of us have studied in Slovenia and that we have experienced student difficulties alone, i.e. student life. Today - I would say - in such a strange way we are changing those views and those views that we probably all felt as students. Whether we worked in cultural institutions or we worked in advisory organisations or we worked in some student organisations because we also needed funds. I believe that we have benefited from these funds and treated them very carefully. We, however, have the primary doubts about the current leadership of the student organization because there have been some irregularities. No one has ever been able to tell who this man who was doing the wrong thing, who is this student institution that was doing the wrong thing. So that someone could serve to say they're right, we're changing the law because it's Mr. Petty Officer, I call it, a student sleazeball. You've taken over this coed instead of looking at yourself and finding that you can control yourself, that you can control yourself. When proper control and control creates opportunities for these abuses not to occur, then I think we have an opportunity to look students in the eye. Those who do not know the student organisation in the field, who do not know that, for example, they finance the student singing choir APZ Tomšič, APZ Maribor singing choir, that Litera is in there, that various student publications are financed. All these people need funds. You are objectively reducing these funds to the extent that they have no working conditions. The creativity of the student organization will fall. As a result, gentlemen of the coalition, one more thought about this amendment. I support this amendment. I suggest you support him here if you want students, students' organisations, our intellectuals, future Members, those who will replace us well on their way of life. I support the amendment myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u344	Mr. Pache, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u345	Your Honors are here! As has been said by representatives of the Slovenian National Party Group, this article represents a grave, in particular a reckless intervention by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has not even had the courage to sign itself under the amended content, but this content, the authorship attributed to individual ruling Members, represents something extremely bad, particularly when we are talking about an organisation that can actually boast that, in addition to meeting the needs, it is useful for a wider society to work in the field of culture to be involved in social activities, social activities. And some of these or rather, almost all of these activities were listed during today’s debate. With this amended funding system, we will reach out with a new division - unfortunately, I am afraid that you will succeed - to reach out to the designated base source of funding for the umbrella student organisation. At the same time, allow me to point out, at least in my opinion, that it is also a very important matter to deal with individual matter. If we have been promised, mainly through the media, that Slovenia is approaching a new stream of events, and especially the reception process, which will be based primarily on communication, we can witness this new government approach today and in the past few days. And we cannot in any way label this as a quality approach. According to our assessment, it's a shift of responsibility. From this address as my fellow Members, I myself intend to support the amendments that have been tabled to allow the student organisation to receive its share of funding as in the past. Allow me, Mr Vice-President, if you have allowed yourself to remind Members and Members of Parliament of the way to raise their hands, to remind you, as a colleague of the Vice-President, that your professional associate, who is responsible for assisting you and looking at the Chamber, is sitting next to you, but not to direct his views under his desk. Use it, believe well-intentioned advice.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u346	Dear Mr. Vice President! I thank you for this lesson. Mr. Gaber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u347	On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Vice-President. Allow me to say two words about how the whole debate is being held here today and why it shows support for these supplements. Look, the whole day has shown that we need, on the basis of different arguments, an additional time - time to come up with the solution that lies ahead. This additional time can only be obtained in this way - and with Mr Brenčič I agree here - that at least one of the additions has been accepted. I admit that I personally don't care which one, because I know the problem for the minister, for the government, for the student organization, is too complicated for us all to solve here today, in this place. If we want to seriously cut down after the removal of irregularities, which of course exist in the field of student work, if we want to prevent some, on the basis of student credit cards, from actually paying out funds for which it is wrong to pay here, if we want to regulate the system in such a way that there will be no room for enormous profits, if we do not want to see irregularities in the relation of student services and this work, then the Minister is obliged here with partners to put in extra effort and find a mechanism that will also allow me, if this proves to be acceptable to the partners in this dialogue, a differentiated burden on the intervention of the work that does. But all of this will fall if no supplement is accepted. Therefore, in these votes on the scale, the maturity of Parliament and the conviction that Parliament is not primarily the stage on which it is spoken, as some misinterpret the creation of Parliament, but that Parliament is, above all, a place to agree and decide. And if we want to set a good example, both for this case and for those big decisions that still await us - I'm talking about reform - then I suggest - and our Group of Members will do so - to support, at least one complement must be made if we want good policy in Slovenia and Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u348	Mr. Mag. You're welcome, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u349	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm just adverting myself to make a public statement. Slovenian interest and service policy has so far not understood the social aspect nor the aspect of fulfilling the study obligations, both regular and quality studies. The student services were not interested in the provision of work and the student organisations were interested in the provision of services to students. Intermediation and services to students had virtually no serious links to the study. The students are expected to work mainly for the purpose of complementing studies and social needs, and in no way to the detriment of studies. However, the scholarship fund or scholarships and other social and public assistance to students are basic aid mechanisms for socially disadvantaged students and students who are extremely gifted or have special study conditions. I find this to be the most controversial in addition to the enormous impact on the economy, the labour market, employment, business activity and speculation. We're only partially correcting the existing system, which is a pretty elaborate system, but we're not shutting it down. It is based on the legally founded autonomy of money sources of student organisations and special organisations, which are essentially student services, which with their money source and full organisational autonomy operate as they do. Clearly, money is still corrupt in this system, especially because it is weak, especially because it is not properly controlled. There are also many speculations about student work, irregularities in job providers. From a tenth of the student's work, her third will certainly be better secured on purpose in scholarships and fund. Since the Fund will have to operate according to clear and excessive rules based on purposes, trust in the Fund is justified. And if the Fund really proves itself in practice, it could have an even greater share of the current tenth of the student's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u350	Mr. Pavlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u351	The great Slovenian culture Fran Saleški Finžgar once wrote down that the student should be. Minister of the current government structure mag. Janez Petty Officer says there won't be a student. I ask you: Dear Members and Members, are we still under the free sun? I'll be very supportive of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u352	Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u353	Thank you very much, Chairman. One of you will remember quite a few years ago when the then government tried to tax student services somewhat differently. A little different, or a little more. And someone convinced the students that they had come before the National Assembly to demonstrate, to protest that this was not acceptable, because the student services had told them that it would also affect their merits. Then that didn't happen. The situation remained about the same as it was, but these students were also encouraged by some Members or some political options. It is interesting, however, that it is these political options today that have a drastic impact on student work and the sharing of the student's earnings. The solution contained in Article 6 of the Law and the solution contained in the amendment differ significantly. It is closer to me, despite all the amendments that are also so far from acceptable to all, but closer to a suitable solution. At the same time, however, there are some reasons why if we accept at least one amendment, it is possible for further arrangements to be made for someone to come closer. We will probably not be here among them, closer to our circle, or I say that it will be agreed, but the possibility will still remain, because today's debate shows that there is still a need for an agreement, which is also why I will support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u354	Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u355	Thank you very much. I will not support the amendment. We're talking billions here today. Let me just quickly tell you what this calculation looks like. Thus, if the concession fee in 2004 was 8 billion Slovenian tolars, if 30% of this is allocated to the scholarship fund, that is to say 24 thousand scholarships at the annual level. If this scholarship amounts to 500,000 tolls per year and everything stays with the students, everything, just sharing is different. 5.6 billion then splits, half gets a student organisation and half the services. If we take it that they get student services 2.8 billion and we say that somewhere the average salary is 3.6 million, it's still 4,000 jobs. That's what it looks like in numbers. Students’ organisations can also use 2.8 billion for all of the things you mentioned here today. But if there will be more student work in the future, because this law in no way restricts student work, in no way, those who say it, the other I cannot say as if you are making it up, and then, of course, these numbers can be even bigger and all of this remains for the students. Can we then say that students don't want scholarships anymore? Is it against the students then? Let the student be, we can hear it here. Is this measure against students? You are misinterpreting gentlemen and without a bad conscience I will vote in favour of this law and against this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u356	Mr. Bones, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u357	The choice regarding the amendment is very simple. It is that, according to my assessment, student services and student organisations have been set up by students mainly to enable better implementation of their mission, this is a study. Study, quality and study, timely study. This is the basic mission that students have. I'm sure these two organizations are meant to do this. Here is the dilemma only about whether it is back to allowing for a more quality study of 30% or 10% of the concession. I think it is perfectly clear with regard to the mission of student service organisations, as much as possible, the better. It seems to me that there are still 70% of the funds left by both organisations absolutely too much, given that they are actually managing and managing the work. However, it is clear from the debate of some fellow Members that this matter has exceeded - I will say - the basic mission and the basic function and has crossed the political lines without self-restraint, of which Dr. Gaber is particularly able to tell us much about the other Members. I would also ask the other Members who have not completed any studies to date not to teach us how to study and what it is - I will say - the student life especially those who have not, without student organisations and student services, completed our studies in four or five years and these are few of us here.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u358	Mrs. Pechanova. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u359	Thank you very much. I'll support all the amendments. Nevertheless, I hope that the first will be supported or voted on. But if this is not all that allow for the first time that the student organisation will, in principle, be guaranteed autonomy of action and that the resources with which the functions of this organization have been legalized in 1994, are actually expected to be financed from a source such as the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, in coalition with their own, thank God, a somewhat scrupulous coalition, proposes or insidious, corrupt in a very ugly and divisive way, what has been agreed not only with the student organisation, but also with the members, with the partners in the development partnership, simply on a side-by-side path, on a roll, as is the custom of this coalition, it also changes. And because I believe that the Members of those coalition parties that you are advertising today, that you are not embarrassed in front of the students, because you are beating their rights or trampling them on the committee for work, family and social affairs, should correct this ugly mistake and confirm at least this first amendment, where it is also proposed by one of your coalition partners. I think it would be appropriate and right to support it, and then, of course, as the colleague suggested, let us do it in the third reading so that we may not make too much money for student services that operate in the way they do.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u360	Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u361	Thank you very much. We are increasingly witnessing that the government cannot make an effort to harmonise legislation with the public concerned. Whether it is a law on higher education, or whether it is a national programme of higher education, or whether it is a law that we are talking about today. Only with the power position has the government managed to break some people in the economy so far. She has managed to break some media, and today, gentlemen, we are not witnessing to be either more honest or unfair. The point is that this article is the same as it was amended by the amendment, in fact one of the levers to break a student organisation. This article is essentially a political account with a student organisation and if once in a given past it was considered that someone had submitted, "oro et lab", pray and work. Later, capitalists turned this into: "Listen and do." Then I'm sure today is the purpose of showing up to the students, listening and studying, and you're gonna be fine and good and don't get involved in this sphere anymore. Because of this and also because of the uprightness for all that this young generation has done in the past for us, previous generations, and even what this works, I am not going to limit his freedom. I think in the vast majority they've spent these funds very carefully and well. That is why I will be very happy to support this amendment. And please have at least so much sense that we do not go like a tank across the battlefield and in the third reading we find a common language.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u362	Ma'am mag. Spending, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u363	Thank you. I am not among the signatories and signatories to this amendment, for a very simple reason. Because before that, the Social Democrats' Group tabled its amendments to Article 4 of the bill. That doesn't mean I won't support the amendment. Earlier, the leader of the parliamentary group said that we would also support this amendment, in addition to all those who return the decisions to the original text, because we cannot agree to some of the solutions that restrict them actually limit the possibility of obtaining funds for the functioning of the student organisation. Probably someone else has received a letter from a 24-year-old graduate with an average score of 9.27, who graduated earlier than the graduates' internship, which has also been working all the time through the student service and which this morning accompanied a multi-year debate and which she is sorry for - moving around whether one of them has earned too much or not, seems inappropriate in view of the benefits she has had as a student with a student's job. And there's a lot of students like that. And those who are now pessimistic, because they do not have the job opportunities, are far too much to help those who help themselves with their student work to cope with the lack of resources needed to study too much to close their doors to study.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u364	Mr. Joseph Horvat has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u365	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I won't support the amendment. I will not repeat the quantitative calculations mentioned before me by colleague Sok and colleague Bojan of the SDS. Again, I would like to say as in the discussion that I would like to take sides with students, including those who sign a petition and demand that compulsory membership in the SOS or any other student organisation be abolished in order to allow for the free establishment of new student organisations, so that all student organisations and all students before the law and the state are equal. And this petition refers to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights [[Article 20, second paragraph]] and to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia [[Article 42, second paragraph]] . And in this place, I agree with my colleague, Dr Slavko Gabr, who invites us all to come up with things to think about, and we also need to think about this in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u366	We're moving on to decision-making. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u367	Thank you. For tactical reasons, I would also like to support any of these amendments. Not because each one brings a better solution than the ones recorded. It is common to all these amendments to prevent the maintenance of the student work instrument. The key purpose of the government is to burn down the student population through the way these funds are redistributed, just as it burned the media. Just like he's trying to burn the economy. This should therefore be supported and the possibility of a new round opened. And I will support these amendments also because Minister Petty Officer is a little fraud. He promises his partners something at the negotiating table, and then he arranges with his fellows for something third and brings it to Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u368	Mr. Scholch, I'd like to ask you nicely, without a dispute with Mr. Secretary. Please explain your voice. There is a debate or explanation of vote. Please. Before I give you my word that you continue, please ask everyone on the balcony to respect the order of this national assembly, sit down and calm down and do not perform the circus.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u369	Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u370	Here you go, Mr. Scholch!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u371	If you understand my words as controversial.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u372	Mr. Skull, you know it automatically shuts down if you make a suggestion. Thank you very much. Mr Kokalj has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u373	What I was going to suggest happened was the only thing that happened. I wanted you to take a word with the gentleman because he's calling fellow Members "friends." I think this is offensive and does not belong to this Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u374	Thank you very much. Mr. Kokalj, I reminded him. I interrupt the session for five minutes, and please, if on the balcony you students calm down and take your seats. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the session. Thank you very much. All those present on the balcony have calmed down and occupied their seats, thus allowing me to continue the meeting. Mr Školč, because I reached out to him earlier because of what's happening on the balloon, I'm giving him half a minute to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u375	Thank you very much. That'll be all right. What Mr Minister has done is this kind of work that Parliament should not be involved in. This is the last reason why I am going to vote for any of these amendments, that Parliament does not participate in the small frauds that the Minister with his own - I will say - prominent co-workers are implementing in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u376	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u377	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I will not support these amendments for a simple reason, because we have a final government to prepare the grant law. There has been no scholarship law in the last 12 years or since we have a country of our own. This government has taken this seriously. And these amendments, which are written here, don't work against students or commit to students' mouths. I myself am right in these times from a few years ago, and also now students who can work, but so much so that they can study. It's completely different. And these funds, which will already be used for scholarships, are actually increasing the possibility of studying those who are unable to study today. At the expense of the students, however, some have capitalised richly and savagely, as has been the practice of the last 12 years. Therefore, dear students, dear students know that if anyone favors you, this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u378	We're moving on to decision-making. Before we vote, I would like to remind you of the following. If this amendment is adopted, all amendments to Article 4 shall become irrelevant. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same applicants to Article 62. If the amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 62 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 42. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Mr. Mogue procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u379	Thank you very much. In doing so, I express my sorrow for my conduct, [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u380	Thank you very much, Mr. Mogue. This is not procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u381	At the same time, I predict obstruction, Mr Vice-President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u382	Okay. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Head of the Group of Members shall obstruct them. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u383	Yes, you can!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u384	If that's what Mr. Moge said. Here you go, Mr. Rope.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u385	Mr. Chairman! On behalf of the Group of Members, I request a 15-minute recess. For consultation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u386	I'll authorize a recess before the vote. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under number 2, the SNS delegation to Article 4. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u387	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we are giving you another option at this time, and we are giving you another opportunity not least to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Minister Drobnič, because the amendment we are proposing in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group is identical - I say - to the same content signed by Minister Drobnič. It's about, and I'll say copy paste. The ones you know in this computer language, Minister Drobnič. In order to assist you or support you, given that I fear that you do not have as much influence as the Minister does on his own Members, to give them a signal at this moment to support the amendment and thus give them the opportunity to allow time for negotiations to continue and to achieve what is yet to be achieved in the third reading. The Slovenian national party at the moment with this amendment, as has already been said, offers another option. Dear colleagues, don't waste this opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u388	Mr. Zagorac, would you like a word? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u389	Thank you for your word. I want it, and I think your co-worker saw that I wanted it. Mr Minister, the amendment that is now before you is essentially helping your lack of misunderstanding, your inability to convince your own Members to support what you said you were supporting, is a law of harmony.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u390	Mr. Zagorac!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u391	I'll be there as an amendment for that very reason. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u392	Please, let me say it. Explanation of vote, I follow the Rules of Procedure, and please do not derail or offend the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u393	Thanks again for saying that. I hope you'll give me back four seconds of your time you stole from me. What I said at the beginning.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u394	Mr. Zagorac, don't insult me either.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u395	I didn't insult you with that, but I only demanded what was in my rules of procedure. The reason I'm going to support this amendment is also the one I said at the beginning. So I am giving the Minister the opportunity to convince his Members, in 15 minutes, to follow what he himself said 6.6. Someone was talking about billions of student services. Dear students, student services are, among other things, a share company. There's a law that lays down the rules of the game. This is a law on companies. If you do not respect him and if others do not respect him, there are instruments for this to be respected. Don't destroy student services. Some of your children, respected leaders of coalition parties, stood before Parliament when it was necessary to demonstrate for this law, let them follow at least their opinions, if you already have, I don't know, a Prime Minister in a higher instance than your own children. Someone said to study, to learn, to learn, to learn, and to learn again. Dear colleagues, allow them to learn. Study isn't free. Allow them to work so that they can pay for their studies. Otherwise, they can't. I speak your words. I agree, Comrade Kokalj, that those who did not try to study should not be sending us the brains, but most of them, respected colleagues, have sent us today a mind that the study has not seen far and has told us about comparisons with the European Union. Not at all. You graduated at a time when student work was allowed, also allow them to graduate at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u396	Since no one is answering for explanations of vote, we conclude and, at the same time, give a 15-minute recess at the request of the LDS leader. We continue the meeting at 8:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u397	We continue with the adjourned meeting of the National Assembly. Before we proceed and proceed to the decision on the amendment, I ask: Does the leader of the LDS Group want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u398	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u399	Here you go, Mr. Rope.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u400	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! We held a consultation at the parliamentary club on what happened here in the National Assembly. We note that despite the six hours of discussion, despite the many arguments that we have cited here today, they have been argued in every way possible, with figures and explanations that you have not so far wanted to listen to any comments, not to the arguments, nor to the previous comments of the social partners, and in particular not to the arguments of the student organisations and students. We are confident that if you do not accept any of the amendments that are here today, that the law that will be supplemented will be bad, that this law will not lead to greater flexibility of the labour market in Slovenia, that this law will be restrictive, that on the one hand it will be restrictive, that will take many people's employment opportunities, so unemployed, both students for work, for study, for progress and for development, and that this has nothing to do with development reforms and that we need all together, probably you, to think about whether it is right, however, that any of the amendments that are before you, you accept that you are listening to arguments. That is why we have decided to wait for one of the amendments to be put to the vote on the next amendment, and that, even if you will not listen to any of us, any of us members of the opposition, this time you will also go to the vote and close this opportunity to open the article and negotiate with the student organisations and the social partners in accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure in such a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u401	Thank you very much. Mr. Potts. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u402	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We also held consultations in the outgoing Social Democrats Group. Our firm belief is that all the arguments are said, to retell them to each other makes no sense because we speak to deaf ears. The arguments don't want to be heard. To talk about you in the ruling coalition choosing which amendments are right for confirmation, which is wrong, is simply playing with power and nerves. You know well that if any amendment is adopted, an article will be open and it will be possible to speak substantively about it and we could show the least will and amendment we have rejected. I hope you will find this time that the next amendment, which is the same by content, is worthy of confirmation and is worth reconsidering. I stress once again what I said earlier in explaining, including the time needed to coordinate the student organisation, but not on the basis of some of the letters you receive from your organisations. For this reason, it does not seem reasonable for us to remain in the vote at any other amendment, even ours, which is the same as the amendments that we are about to vote on. That's why we're counting on wisdom on your part. We expect that the willingness to accept the amendment, which is now on the table, does not make sense to vote on any of the same amendments and to explain to each other how we do not understand each other. That is why we, too, in the Group of Social Democrats, will obstruct the meeting for this item on the agenda if this amendment is not voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u403	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u404	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u405	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u406	Thank you for your word. Fifteen minutes is enough time, Minister, to keep your word, and I hope that you have managed to convince your own Members to follow your words, which you have said publicly, to the words of 6.6.2006 when you said "in the government we support a harmonised bill." Then something else happened on the parental committee - you made the marriage uncoordinated again. You have one of the partners in this interview on your balcony. Even so, if in fifteen minutes you have failed to identify your mistakes, your lies, your deception by both the people who look at us and the people who are with us on the balcony, we will also announce obstruction for this item in the Slovenian National Party in accordance with Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Simply because the law is uncoordinated, non-lifely and does not allow students to do what they decided to do after high school. There is another reason for such a decision: the partnership should be based on consensus. You broke the consensus in the first law you proposed to this national council. As I said, the obstruction will be announced if you do not support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u407	Here you go, Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u408	Procedurally, Mr. Vice President. I want him not to break the constitution. I am an autonomous Member of Parliament after the stop, and I cannot be influenced by the Minister in this intermesia. Therefore, before the entire assembly, I would like to say that the Slovenian People's Party does not propose any amendment, although we do not support a different solution, which is now present. We will certainly support this with the aim of opening an article to the eighth amendment. If that does not happen, we will support the 12th proposed by the Liberal Democracy Club. But surely we will cooperate in the third reading to get this article to have the image it must have. However, I would like it not to be in violation of the Constitution in my status as a Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u409	Mr. Brenčič, I didn't quite understand what you meant by that. Thank you very much. If that's what you thought you had to answer, okay? We're moving on. Procedural question of Mr Žnidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u410	Procedurally. The DeSUS Group does not announce obstruction in voting on these amendments, but this may happen if no amendment is adopted that would allow the third reading to achieve an appropriate solution, which would be as acceptable to the student organisation as possible. In a procedural sense, by reference to the relevant Rule of the Rules of Procedure, I foresee a possible obstruction in this case, which has been cited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u411	Thank you very much. Once again, I ask you, distinguished students and students, we would like to work in peace, you are calm, but please, if you take your seats and sit down, just as this National Assembly has appointed for visitors. I'd like you to sit down and respect the National Assembly. Can I help you, Mr. Battelli?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u412	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Procedurally. The Rules of Procedure say that during the meeting you explain the rules of procedure, and I think you're right when you invite students to sit down. We work here for their own good.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u413	Thank you very much. I'm asking you again if you'd like to sit down. Please, if you cooperate with us and sit down, or I'll interrupt the session. Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. If this amendment is adopted, all the remaining amendments to Article 4 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. I note that from 77 Members present and Members present, 35 votes in favour, 42 votes in favour. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 42.]] I therefore note that the amendment has not been adopted. I note that, as they have announced, the three parliamentary groups obstruct the continuation of the meeting, namely the LDS Group, the Social Democrats Group and the Slovenian National Party Group. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under the number 3 of the LDS Group to Article 4. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 4 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, with two votes against 45. [[The vote was 2.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 4 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, with two votes against 45. [[The vote was 2.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 4 of Article 5 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, with a vote of 4 to 43. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under the number 6 of the LDS Group to Article 4. If this amendment is adopted, the amendments under numbers 7 and 8 will become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, with 2 votes against 44. [[The vote was 2.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 4 of Article 7 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, with two votes against 45. [[The vote was 2.]] [[Against 45.]] We are moving on to an amendment decision under Article 8 of the SDS and NSI. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 4 of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. If this amendment is adopted, amendments under numbers 10, 11 and 13 will become irrelevant. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same applicants to Article 62. If the amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 62 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, with 3 votes against 43. [[The vote was 3.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under the number 10 of the LDS Group to Article 4. Note. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the same proposer under numbers 11 and 13 will become irrelevant. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same applicants to Article 62. If the amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 62 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, with 4 votes against 43. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Thus, the amendment of the same proposer under numbers 11 and 13 is irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 12 of the LDS Group. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, who voted 2 to 45. [[The vote was 2.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members with first-signed William Rezman to Article 6. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 42. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 6 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, who voted in favour of 2 votes against 44. [[The vote was 2.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of Article 19 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, with 1 to 45 votes in favour. [[The vote was 1.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of Article 19 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 45 Members and Members present, and there was a vote in favour - non-conclusion. We'll do it again, another time. We are voting on the second amendment to Article 19. There are 48 Members and Members present, who voted in favour of 2 votes against 43. [[You voted for two.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision under Article 36 of Article 1 of the Social Democrats Group. The footnote does not apply because the fourth amendment to this Article has been corrected. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, with 3 votes against 42. [[3 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] The amendment was not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under the number 2 of the LDS Group to Article 36. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, who voted in favour of 2 votes against 44. [[You voted for two.]] [[Against 44.]] The amendment was not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 36 of Article 3 of the SDS and NSI. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under the number 4 of the LDS Group to Article 36. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, who voted 2 to 45. (For which you voted, 2.)(against 45.) The amendment was not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 36 of Article 5 of the SDS and NSI. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. As this amendment has been adopted, the amendment under number 7 becomes irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 36 of Article 6 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. I note that 48 Members and Members voted for 2 to 45. [[You voted for two.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Excuse me! A few minutes off. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Since the fifth amendment has been adopted, the seventh amendment is also voted on. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 36 of Article 7 of the SDS and NSI. We're voting. 46 Members and Members voted against 45. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 55 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There were 48 votes in favour, 1 in favour, and 43 in favour. [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 60. We're voting. There were 48 votes in favour and 2 in favour against 45. [[You voted for two.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I note that all the three amendments to Article 62 are irrelevant because the basic amendments were not adopted, that is to say the first, second and third. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 64 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There were 48 votes in favour of 1 in favour and 45 in favour. [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give my word to the bill-maker. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u414	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose, on behalf of the proposer, that the third consideration of this Act take place at the same meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u415	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, on the basis of paragraph 1 of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal, no decision will be taken if more than one third of the Members present oppose it. Mr. Brenčič, an explanation. Excuse me. Procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u416	Procedurally. We will not support this decision. We argue that this proposal for a law started a procedural path in the coalition last April, and nothing is in such a hurry that we are not able to carry out a third hearing at the next meeting due to the necessary regulation of Article 4. If such a law goes forward, the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will not support the law in the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u417	Mr. Tanko. Please, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u418	Yes, procedurally. We propose that this law be discussed at the next meeting in accordance with the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party. We believe that this necessary debate needs to be held tomorrow and that an appropriate solution for this adopted amendment h does not know which article already exists.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u419	We are moving on to a decision on the proposal made by the Minister, which is to say that we continue despite the proposals that have been made so that we do not continue. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 35. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Since the proposed decision has not been adopted, the assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: "The draft law for third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." We're voting. I didn't know about the double meaning of your move. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one's against it.]] I therefore note that the proposed decision to draw up a proposal for a third-reading law is adopted by the Government. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Complements of the Insurance Act. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. Please, Mr. Rop, a procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u420	Mr. Chairman. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 65 at this point, and I will do so every day today, because such a decision is a Member's Club, we predict obstruction. Because of the way we work, because of the functioning of the National Assembly, we have decided not to participate in the work of the National Assembly today. We believe that such a way is unacceptable, that it is bad, and that it makes no real sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u421	Mr. Rob, just one question. You did not explain the way he was doing it or who was doing it wrong. Please, no comment. Mr. Rob, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u422	I have already explained this at the previous point and I am reinterpreting this, also because of the calls we have just heard. If there is no dialogue in this National Assembly [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u423	Please, calm down!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u424	If it is not possible to present arguments in this national assembly, if there is a struggle in this national assembly, if intolerance prevails in this national assembly and if the adoption of laws takes place in such a way that one of the amendments of the opposition is not adopted, if it is decided in this national assembly and adopts laws against which the social partners oppose the laws in which students oppose the laws, if we silence students in this national assembly in such a way that students are silent and we do not allow them to normally monitor the meetings of the national assembly, then we believe that something needs to be changed in the work of the national assembly. That is the way we are protesting and therefore obstructing each of the agenda items of today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u425	Thank you very much. Please, calm down. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 32 of Article 1 of the LDS Group. We're voting. I note that 54 Members and Members voted in favour of 9 votes to 43. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 32 of the LDS Parliamentary Group number 2. We're voting. 55 Members and Members voted in favour of 10 on Route 45. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to a decision on amendment number 3 of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups to Article 32. We're voting. There were 54 votes in favour and 48 against 2. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on amendment number 4 of the LDS Group to Article 32. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, for 5, for 45. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Can I have a procedural question, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u426	Thank you for your word. I'm very glad I got it at all because, Mr Pleven, you've been watching me since I got to the hall, and you've noticed me, but you've probably forgotten the chairman's "hand" to keep my hand in the air. It all took a while. Five minutes, even my coalition colleagues saw me holding my hand. Very interesting meeting management. However, I must say that because you have decided, dear friends from the coalition, that you are going into power today, to what the elections have given you, the power to vote, and you are forgetting the vitality, even in the Slovenian National Party, in accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, we are predicting obstruction for this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u427	Thank you. That's what I'd like to say to you. [[Laugh.]] We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give my word to the bill-maker. [[You don't want a word.]] Thank you. The assembly will hold its third reading of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: The draft law for the third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. I note that of the 47 members present, 45 votes against 1 in favour of the proposed decision were voted in favour. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the electoral law to the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. What can I do for you, Mr. Potts? Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u428	Procedurally, yes. Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! As we know that a qualified majority is required to decide on the electoral law and that this moment is not enough for us in the national assembly to be able to decide, I propose, in accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, that we stop this point and postpone it to tomorrow or to the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u429	I would like to remind you that today we are only voting on the amendments. If the Minister proposes, then we will vote on the law on Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u430	Mr President and Vice-President! Even if we only vote on the amendments, I have the right to propose this, and I have proposed that we stop and postpone the decision later before deciding on the amendments. Because we also need a qualified majority for amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u431	I am putting the proposal to the vote, on the amendments and on the law we will take at the next meeting, at one of the following meetings. Once again, if you repeat your proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u432	To be held at tomorrow's meeting, to interrupt today's agenda item and to be held at tomorrow's meeting, in accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u433	Voting on amendments and law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u434	And the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-21-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u435	I'm telling you again. The proposal is to vote on the amendments and the law at tomorrow's meeting. I'm putting the motion to a vote. There are 54 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 13. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 13.]] I'd like to remind you of that, please. Tomorrow we can only vote on the amendments, not the law. About the law in the next session. I hereby terminate this point and the 18th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night.
