ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, Mr Minister, Secretary of State and other representatives of the Government, good morning! I begin the continuation of the 23rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. At this beginning, let me remind you of our former colleague, Mr Toneto Partljić, who wrote Contributions to the understanding of Slovenian Parliamentarianism, and he said: "There are nightbirds and tics, nightmares, night watches, but there are also night sessions of Parliament, which are nothing more than daylight." And I find that we're a little different the next morning. But anyway, this is also a list of those who cannot attend today's session, and let me read it in the next ten minutes: Anton Anderlich, Roberto Battelli, Just Bevk from 16.00 p.m. on, mag. Franz Capuder from 6.30 p.m. to 3 p.m., Dr. Pavel Gantar, Ljubo Germić, Matjaž Han, Ferry Horvat, Ivan Jelen, Aurelio Juri, mag. Your Clavora, mag. Janez Kramberger, Rudolf Mogue from 12.00 p.m. on, my trifle [[Dr. Marko Pavliha]] From 4.30 p.m. to 4.30 p.m., Milan Petek, Maria Possonec, Srečko Friend, Jožef Školč, Matjaž Švagan, Davorin Terčon and Franc Kangler. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Defence of the supplementary proposal for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 (EPA 1095-IV). We have six hours and 29 minutes to discuss. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted the supplementary draft budget to the National Assembly for consideration. I give the floor to Mr Finance Minister, Dr Bayuk, who will present the 2008 Complementary Draft Budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At the presentation of the 2007 Draft amending budget, I presented in detail all the innovations and changes we are introducing in the next financial year. The contents of the 2008 budget proposal represent the continuation or continuity of the proposal for amendments for 2007. In this way, the 2008 budget proposal brings us closer to the fiscal targets outlined and enables us to continue to implement the Lisbon Strategy and Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, I will briefly present only the key aggregates of the 2008 budget. As in the preparation of the 2007 Draft amending budget, we also assessed the revenue for the preparation of the 2008 Draft Budget on the basis of the macroeconomic assumptions in the 2006 Spring Report prepared by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development in May 2006. The reason for the use of these macro-economic baselines is in the chosen so-called "top-down" approach to the preparation of the budget, where the budget balance is primarily important and is targeted, and in the principles of sound budgetary revenue planning, which provide for conservative planning. Overestimated revenue forecasts may cause difficult and unfavourable measures to be implemented during the year, as it would be necessary to reduce already allocated spending rights for budgetary users, otherwise the budget balance would deteriorate. The selection of spring macroeconomic baselines in the preparation of income projections thus reduces the risks resulting from uncertainty in the economic, political and international environment. According to favourable economic activity projections, there are also movements of public finance aggregates in 2008. Thus, the downward trend in public financial expenditure continues in 2008. Compared to the estimated implementation for 2007, government expenditure will fall by 0.8% of GDP in 2005 and the government deficit by 0.1% of GDP. However, public financial revenues will decrease by an additional 0.7% of GDP in 2008 compared to 2007, which will contribute to further decommissioning of the economy and help to increase competitiveness. The 2008 draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia totals EUR 7.1 billion of tax revenue, EUR 400.7 million of tax revenue and EUR 608.9 million of funds received from the European Union. A total of EUR 8.1 billion of budget revenue is foreseen in 2008, representing 24% of GDP. The share of tax revenues in GDP is declining compared to 2007. The new tax legislation will also bring an additional burden on direct taxes in 2008, in addition to being a gradual phase-out of the pay tax. Your Honor! In view of the debate and the desire to understand the revenue planning process so far, I reiterate that the proposed law on budget implementation does not include any changes to the value added tax rates and that before any proposal to amend and supplement the law on the implementation of the 2008 budget, the Government will, within a year, carefully examine the assessment of any changes in the expected macroeconomic scenario, re-examine the expected effects of reducing public spending on the basis of the legislation just adopted and the expected effects of additional legislative changes currently in preparation and all other options for providing sufficient funding in 2008, without having to increase the VAT rates. The 2008 draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia totals €8.4 billion of expenditure, representing 24.99% of GDP. Dear Members and Members! The same as I did in favour of the 2007 draft amending budget, I would like to stress that in 2008, economic resources are increasing by 22.7 in relation to the 2008 budget adopted; that the funds for the 2008 programme of active employment policy continue to increase by 44.7% in full in terms of implementation in 2004 and are planned to amount to SIT 25.5 billion. Science and technological development funds are increasing by more than 8 percentage points compared to the 2007 budget adopted; the funding of tertiary education is even closer to the funding target of 1.3% of GDP from public funds. A further reduction in the number of judicial arrears is also envisaged as a result of the continued implementation of the Lukend programme. Finally, according to the principle of environmental charging, the Government will implement individual economic instruments such as emissions trading, financial guarantees for environmental protection, joint investment in environmental protection projects and the introduction of an environmental and environmental management sign. All the mechanisms or measures mentioned above will have a positive impact on the improvement of the economic or fiscal position of the Republic of Slovenia. This will reduce the budget deficit by 0.1% of GDP in 2008 compared to 2007 and will amount to €73.5 billion or €306.6 million. Your Honor! The figures and measures presented mean that this Government is serious when it comes to achieving its economic and fiscal objectives. The facts or figures already realized this year show that we are on the right track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The supplementary draft budget was also considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Starman, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I say hello to everything! At its 23rd urgent meeting, on 13.11.2006, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008. The Committee also considered the amendments tabled by the individual parliamentary groups: the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group of 8.11.2006, the Slovenian National Party of 9.11.2006 and 10.11.2006, the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club of 10.11.2006, and the Social Democrats Group of 10.11.2006. In the debate, the Minister of Finance briefly explained the supplementary draft budget for 2008. Above all, the debate by the opposition was quite critical that the budget was unrealistic and based on unrealistic assumptions. However, opinions on the Committee have been such that the implementation of the 2005 budget rebalancing as well as the 2006 budget indicates that the items we have planned so far or the proposals we have received are quite correct and do not deviate much from the plans. We have spent a lot of time on the VAT item in the 2008 budget, which is supposed to be unrealistically large and is expected to result in an urgent change in VAT rates. Of course, it has also been found here, and the fact is that we have also just considered the draft amending budget for 2007 and found that VAT is being reduced from the planned 713 billion tolars to the estimated or changes in the budget of the proposed 679 million tolar inflows. It is said that it decreased by 76 million tolars and we did not propose for 2007 or the Government did not propose any change in VAT because the structure of revenue and expenditure allowed this not to be necessary. This has been explained many times by the Minister, and I also believe that there will be no need for a change in VAT in the coming year and that it will be done in the same way as in the 2007 amendments. There have also been critical or sceptical assumptions about the European Union's planned funds for use, but here too things are improving rapidly and we expect that the funds will be used to the same extent as in the 2008 draft budget. Of the 52 amendments, the Committee has not adopted any amendments, which means that it agrees in some way with the proposal tabled by the Government. Maybe there's a few more numbers at the end that we're talking about. GDP in 2008 is €33 billion 793 million, of which €14 billion 725 million will be spent in total public spending, 43.3% of the gross domestic product, of which €8 billion is €445 million, €4 billion is a pension allowance of €310 million, then €1 billion 935 and €735 million is a public health commodity. This is what we are talking about, what we are at our disposal, but it is still likely that this amount is 43.3% still too high a share of public spending, although it is satisfactory that the deficit is planned only at 0.8% of GDP. I propose that this budget be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first one has the word Mr Potz on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Complementing the draft budget represents only minimal changes in the light of the initial proposal and does not provide answers to the range of dilemmas and questions that we have already raised in the debates. While some changes and unaltered overall scope may be positive, it is our assessment that some changes and unaltered overall scales can be positive. For example, more funds for homes for the elderly and more funds for state roads, but this is practically everything. At the same time, and much more worryingly, is the reduction in social transfers funds, as there are no strong assurances that they will not be needed or will not threaten the situation of the socially disadvantaged. The argument that part of the current social transfers will be compensated with a higher level of employment can also be found on the broken legs, both as regards domestic policy and as regards the forecasts made by the European Community authorities. Economic growth and employment forecasts for two years, 2007 and 2008 are not exclusively and only pink. Therefore, the level of funding for active employment programmes, according to our assessment, is not sufficient and can cause additional problems, especially as unemployed young people and hard to employ older people are increasing. Both lose perspective and do not solve their problems. Without quality jobs, and in addition to market orientation and a better part of businesses, active employment policies can also help, there can be a misunderstanding of the flexibility of work, as offered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs; that is, that forgiveness has been greatly facilitated, but that there are not enough concrete measures to provide new jobs, adequate compensation for the unemployed at a time when they are preparing for new employment, and rapid new employment. For those who wait for months and months and many times for years and years, the fine words about flexibility in the labour market do not mean much. As regards the reality of the 2008 budget, even more than in the 2007 budget, a number of issues and risks are open. The 2008 budget will have the impact of entering the euro area. We look forward to this and will undoubtedly benefit from it in the long run, but uncertainty is also evident regarding the short-term effects. Already in the planning of expenditure for some very important purposes - for development, competitiveness, employment, the social state - it is clear that this will also be an electoral year, that we will be chairing the EU this year and that what we will not do in the course of one year from now will virtually not be possible to do. There are therefore more uncertainties and uncertainties in the 2008 budget revenue than there are in 2007. New tax legislation is among them; effects or negative consequences of income; what will be the actual impact of corporate income tax; undisputedly positive but binding reductions in the tax on the payment sheet for the budget. All of this will result in a higher revenue drop in 2008 than in 2007. However, it is not clear from the supplementary draft budget how the Government intends to patch up this gap, to balance the budget in a global way or whether the budget deficit can be provided without clear objectives, where and how, and whether it can thus provide the necessary development and social objectives. There is not even much room to solve these questions. In the current measures and projections, there is no real intention of the Government to save and reduce public spending by two percentage points, although this was its parade horse at the time of the announcement and every year's promises of what will be done. It will certainly have an excuse and, in part, a reasonable answer that it must even employ additional staff in the coming year in order to fulfil its responsibilities under the presidency, and it will be even more difficult at this point to ensure these objectives. The sustainability and stability of public finances are constantly being pointed out by the international institutions of the EU, as well as by the International Monetary Fund. If there are no more decisive austerity measures, there is an additional threat in the air to increase value added tax, which the Government does not exclude in the supplementary draft budget. Indisputable and quite uniform, however, the warnings at home and abroad that if this happens, the increased VAT will have a series of negative and almost no positive consequences. It will be positive only on the formal fissure and negative on the economic and social situation of citizens and citizens as well as businesses. Even for 2008, the problem remains high uncertainty and readiness, the ability of our country to make the most of EU funds, and this remains the most important for quality economic and social development. Despite improved use in October, especially at the expense of agriculture and pre-paid payments, and these guaranteed payments will no longer be available in the future, with the Government's readiness to make better use of us, we cannot and must not be satisfied. This is also confirmed by information from government circles, since after 1.1.2007 the new financial perspective will still have significantly greater resources at its disposal, but it will also require our better organisation in every way in order to provide them. However, we have information, not individual, that the Government is forcing good and experienced people to realize in the European monetary and development field and that there is actually no one else to make it up to. For 2008 too, the issue remains open whether the Government in the budget provides funds for the implementation of national development projects to ensure, as the Government claims, a new development breakthrough. If that is not the case, this resolution, as some have warned, can indeed remain a great disappointment and a misleading pre-election prank instead of a developmental orientation. When considering and adopting amendments to the 2007 budget and the 2008 supplementary budget, we cannot go beyond the way in which these documents are handled and adopted. The fact that we organised work in the National Assembly in order to deal with such important documents was extremely short deadlines, that we organised work in the National Assembly in such a way that there was as little opportunity for a quality debate as possible, that there was never such a gap between deciding and rejecting everything that was proposed by the opposition, that is doubtless, and government parties distributed candy and cakes, in their political interests. All of this confirms our legitimate concern about the content and quality of the budget and how it was prepared. We therefore expect that, with such a budget, the coalition will also be able to ensure its formal adoption, but not to seek our cooperation here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Testen has the following word on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u8	Dear President, a warm welcome to the Minister and ministers with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! The updated draft budget for 2008 also follows the objectives of the Slovenian Development Strategy, as assessed by the New Slovenia Group. It provides conditions for greater economic growth and competitiveness while improving the quality of public finances. In the New Slovenia Group, we note that these objectives are followed by both revenue and expenditure. The public financial deficit of the global public funding balance, covering the state budget, cash and pension insurance, and municipal budgets, is estimated at 0.8% of gross social product for 2008. In the New Slovenia Group, we strongly reject the allegations that the proposed budget documents will not withstand pressure and the public financial deficit will increase. The fact is that its average value within the mandate of the current Government is significantly lower than previous periods and significantly below the limit permitted by the Stability and Growth Pact. The projected reduction in income progression will allow the accelerated growth of private consumption by about three tenths of a percentage point, while still moving in macroeconomicly sustainable frameworks and will not increase the risk of overheating the economy. The amendment of the Law on corporate income tax, which gradually reduces the tax rate from 25% to 20% in the period until 2010, will have a positive impact on strengthening investment. Investment activity and employment will continue to be positively affected by the gradual abolition of the pay tax, which will be definitively abolished in 2009. Public financial expenditure for 2008 is estimated at 43.28% of gross social product and is lower by 1.16% compared to 2005. The proposed expenditure of EUR 2,023 billion or EUR 8 billion 445 million is nominally higher by 4.4% in 2007 and the share of the state budget in the gross social product decreases by 0.5%. For the sake of faster and more coordinated development of the country, their structure is also changing. Let me just point out the most important. The funds for the economy increase by 22.7% most in the area of competitiveness in 2008. Thus, the Ministry of Economy is estimated to have $9.6 billion for competition programmes for 2008. Funding for entrepreneurship, technology transfer and new businesses is also increasing. Given that tourism is a sector with outstanding multiplier effects, special attention is paid within this ministry to tourism, specifically to increasing the visibility of Slovenia and its tourism offer. Since 2004, resources for science and technological development have been increasing every year. In total, these funds will be so high in 2008 by 62%. With this intensity, the applicant is pursuing the Lisbon Strategy's objective of earmarking 1% of GDP for R & D from public funds in 2010. As we know, achieving this goal is not only important because of the university and economic cooperation strategy, but also, in particular, because of the increased competitiveness of our economy in international markets. Actual figures show that EUR 162 million is earmarked in total for the purposes of science and technology development in 2008. We especially want to expose Lukend's program. The number of judges and professional workers also needs to be increased in order to remedy the backlog. Over the next two years, 170 additional judges and 750 experts will be employed, and information and other working conditions will be improved. The Ministry of Justice is provided 4 billion tolars for these purposes in 2008. The area of construction and maintenance of state roads will receive more than 100% more funding at the average level by 2008 compared to the period 2000-2005. In particular, in the investment maintenance and construction of state roads, we see spending rights rising by a good 14 billion tolar in 2007 and further by about 12 billion tolars in 2008. There is also a significant increase in funding for investment activities in rail infrastructure, as estimates will increase from 597 million in 2006 to 10 billion in 2008. Similarly, a substantial number of funds are devoted to the financing of municipalities. Almost all municipalities will receive an increase in funding under the law in force by means of the Law on Community Financing. From the national budget, the municipalities shall be provided with a financial balance representing the appropriations allocated to the municipality during the individual financial year, which cannot finance their eligible expenditure by virtue of the revenue provided for by the law. The revised Community funding system reduces the dependence of most municipalities on the state budget as the level of financial compensation decreases and increases funding from tax resources belonging to municipalities. During the transitional period of five years following the entry into force of the law, by reducing the proportion of the municipality's own revenues, which are intended to finance the appropriate consumption of municipalities, will increase the proportion of decommissioned revenues. The change in the Community funding system will affect the revenue as well as the expenditure of the state budget. For 2008, it is estimated that the state budget's revenues will be reduced by almost 52 billion dollars or 216 million euros, while the lower planned expenditure of the state budget, which is intended to be offset by 51 billion dollars or 213 million euros. They allocate an additional 3% of eligible spending on public infrastructure investments. By 2012, this percentage will increase to 6%. In the New Slovenia Group, we are pleased to note that the funds allocated to municipalities have been increasing steadily since 2005, when the amount of appropriate spending was increased by as much as 10% for the first time. It thus seeks to eliminate the discrepancies between the municipalities entrusted with the tasks and the means to carry them out. It is clear from the applicant's explanation that the Government has adopted a decision and the powers of the Minister of the Interior to notify the Council of the readiness of the Republic of Slovenia to take over the Schengen regime. The test evaluation of land, sea, air borders and data protection carried out in early 2006 showed that the Republic of Slovenia is well prepared in the field of the acquis of the European Union and the Schengen Code, but that the situation in the field of equipment, infrastructure and human resources needs to be improved. In accordance with the above, the long-term objective of the main programme and all projects within this framework is the full readiness of the Republic of Slovenia to enter the Schengen area, provided for in deadlines in all areas. For this purpose, it is allocated from the budget of € 135 million in 2007 and €49 million in 2008. Since many amendments are proposed to reduce the resources for defence, let me mention that in the New Slovenia Group we are aware of Slovenia's commitments at the time of entry into NATO to allocate 2% of GDP for defence expenditure by 2008. This was the decision of the then government due to the complexity of the effects, including participation in the scientific, technological and information flows of the most developed part of the world, the low level of risk for foreign direct investment and economic cooperation with the most developed countries. In the New Slovenia Group, we also support the updated draft budget in this work and, as a result, we cannot support other proposed amendments. In the New Slovenia Group, we are aware that the adoption of the budget is one of the most important tasks of the National Assembly. The autumn report in the post-2008 economic trend scenario estimates that the overall implementation of the envisaged reform measures will allow for a breakthrough to a higher level of development. Although accelerated economic growth will relatively calm down, with the optimal implementation of economic and social reforms, we can expect a new level of potential GDP growth. This will allow Slovenia to achieve a strategic goal, greater prosperity and quality of life for all Slovenians and Slovenes. In this light, in the New Slovenia Group, we express our support for the 2008 supplementary draft budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u9	I invite Mr Bajc to the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, good morning and good afternoon, despite the two, three hours we have managed to break through probably in one way or another from the previous item on the agenda. The 2008 draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia is in many ways similar to the 2007 draft amending budget, which we considered yesterday or today in the early morning. The 2008 budget is also considered to be very much in the preparation and adoption of the 2008 budget, and there is always a lack of funding. We view the 2008 budget proposal as a compromise, which represents an optimal solution in terms of budgetary sustainability and stability of the country's development. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we note that the 2008 budget proposal follows the basic orientations of the Slovenian Development Strategy, which was adopted in 2005. In our view, the budget also follows the objective of faster economic development in Slovenia. It follows the provision of a more efficient and cheaper country or state administration, which is clearly important in particular in terms of budget savings and the reallocation of these funds to investment and development programmes, which in our view all resources intended for the development of the economy, the improvement of transport infrastructure in all areas, as well as the resources allocated to local communities for the implementation of their development programmes. In our view, the Government has also followed the objective of reducing the public financial deficit in the preparation of the 2008 budget proposal. The country's further indebtedness is declining and the government budget deficit for 2008 will be only 0.8% of GDP, which means an additional tenth of the percentage that it has so far. In this presentation, I would not like to repeat and highlight our view of those areas of the budget that I mentioned yesterday or today. The 2008 budget also follows detailed guidelines as discussed yesterday's 2007 budget. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the draft budget for 2008 is development-oriented, which is why we will support it. However, we would like to point out that it is likely that the 2008 budget will need to be adjusted in particular if the effects of the tax reform adopted at the previous meeting of the National Assembly are likely to have a different financial impact from those expected in the following year. However, we allow this option in the Slovenian People's Party's Group and, of course, it will be possible to correct the budget in one year when we consider, probably at least, and accept the changes to the 2008 budget. The consideration of this budget, of course, raises in particular the question of what will happen if sufficient public finances are not provided. It has been heard on several occasions mainly from opposition parties that the Government will certainly increase the value added tax rate in this case. Let me reiterate once again that we believe that both the Minister of Finance and the Government have assured that the VAT rate will not be raised, although the legal basis for this is already in force. We therefore believe that the 2008 budget proposal is acceptable and follows the right objectives. For this reason, we will also support it in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We will also support all coordinated amendments on the parent's working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Pece has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u12	Respectable present. Minister Bajuk said at his opening presentation: "We are indeed on the right track." Unfortunately, we cannot believe these words in the National Party because, on the basis of the act before us today and of course, the acts accompanying the 2008 budget of the Republic of Slovenia do not indicate that Slovenia would be on the right track. A hand-to-heart, irrespective of the words of the President of the Government in the presentation of the budget for 2007 and the Minister of Finance for the 2008 budget, is the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia still does not use tax instruments selectively. That the tax policy within our country, within the Ministry of Finance, is, last but not least, exceptional to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and is extremely negative towards citizens and citizens. It is therefore inappropriate to talk about economic growth as a mirror image or current reflection of the investment period. According to our assessment, the calculation of the Republic of Slovenia, resulting from the figures under this act, is reducing incentives for investment; I stress that the incentives for investment are declining. Investments are simply subject to excessive tax burdens and, of course, we can expect them to be fewer in the coming years. And everyone who knows little about macroeconomics can safely claim that, if investment incentives are reduced, there will, of course, be a reallocation of funds and thus a minor impact on investment, which means that the main macroeconomic indicator or instrument, whose or whose mouth is full or which is better spoken by a government representative, will be changed. Ask her how it's gonna be. This, of course, is economic growth. I want to tell you that the incentives for investment in relation to economic growth and the reduction of investment cannot be expected, unfortunately, to grow in a high trend, as demonstrated by the Minister of Finance. It's just that these two things just don't go together. Of course, from this title we fear for the future of public finances within our country. Allow me to touch in particular the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia in the framework of the general work. Several times it has been said, even today during the presentation, but not least in the last 14 days, about so-called tax revenues. So those incomes you want don't burden any of us, let it be in the form of a natural, legal person, whatever. And unless, of course, the tax liability is settled, sanctions follow. From this title, of course, it is to say and to point out that this is one of the easiest sources of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia to simply, in the domestic sense, impose tax rates in order to introduce new taxes and through this way that the whole wasteful state or, rather, a wasteful government. The figures resulting from the 2008 Proposal for a Budget of the Republic of Slovenia and these figures or amounts in euros have, of course, been prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a more specific Ministry of Finance, suggesting that the so-called tax revenues in relation to the non-taxables will only be increased. Also throughout the tax revenue structure. The difference in the realisation assessment for this year, i.e. in 2006, shows that we have tax revenues of EUR 6 billion 665 million. And in the 2008 budget proposal of the Republic of Slovenia, this will amount to, or this amount, tax revenues, to a large extent exceed EUR 7 billion. This means that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has increased our tax revenues at this stage and thus burdens our citizens and citizens by over 6.7%. Under its Act, the government points to a minor change in tax revenues of only 4.9%. Why is there a significant difference between the increase of 4.9% of tax rates and between 6.7%? This is because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers the draft amending budget for 2007 and the non-realised images in 2006. In addition, it is in order to emphasise that a significant indexation in a negative direction for citizens and citizens and in a positive direction for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be given to the financial item 704, which in other words means value added tax or tax, which will increase by, I say, 11.9%. However, what is quite interesting is the so-called non-tax revenue, which stagnates or is lagging behind the so-called tax revenues compared to tax revenues. Well, from this title, at least for us, it is a very interesting question of what happens to income from participation in the profits and dividends of public enterprises, public funds and public financial institutions, given that this account is missing or is below 100; in other words, about 8% less than in the past period. Of course, there can be two answers to this question, whether this is due to the sale of state property, not least you are also taking a decision on the sale of state financial and real property, whether it is poor management, poor management of government personnel within these companies where the State, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has its representatives. However, if the answer to my question is why the lack of resources in this area is that it is a sale, then I am interested in how that the sales revenues do not reach a realization higher than in previous years, because the fact is, at least, that is how the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has written that the revenues from sales are at 100, that is to say, unchanged. From this title, it seems to us that, insofar as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is pursuing a simple objective to leave the so-called non-tax revenue at peace and not to worry about high profit participation or just profit participation or, on the other hand, dividend income under securities, and there is little concern about why 8% is missing and, on the other hand, this replaces and goes well beyond introducing new tax burdens on our citizens. Well, at least in the National Party, we are convinced that everything that is bad or catastrophic needs to be built and, on the other hand, at least the part of the budget that points to something a little brighter in this whole bunch of negative things. On this basis, we welcome the indexation from the European Union's funds received, in particular as regards the areas of structural policy, cohesion policy and, last but not least, the other funds received from the European Union budget. It is true that these indices - in a row I will count - are 140,6, 140,4 and 71 and 171, respectively, only the funds of the European Union's financial contribution. From this title, we wish to ensure that the public finances of the Republic of Slovenia and all users are actually drawn. But this is only one segment of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to make it easier to speak, let me define these segments as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has written on one of the many lists accompanying the basic public financial act. For 7 billion and some so-called tax revenues, we have 400 million so-called non-tax revenues, so in the context of tax revenues I've been talking about billions, this time in much smaller amounts. Capital revenues, donations and transfer revenue are marked at this amount by number 13 and the funds received from the European Union budget by number 608, which means that from the so-called promised Europe, despite an increase of 40% from the first source, from the second source by 40.2% and from the third source, that is to say, the other resources, 70%, still do not reach 8% of the so-called tax revenues, i.e. those of our citizens and citizens. At the same time, I think it is extremely important, at least in a given situation, to stop at that unloving conversation, that is, value added tax. Allow me to read from the budget framework of the Republic of Slovenia, the explanation of the general part of the proposal for 2008, under the sub-chapter of the Indirect Tax. Why would you want to read this - because I've heard a lot of speakers before me, that we've got government assurances. We have received the government's guarantee, you say, which says or claims that there will be no VAT increase. Not long ago, I think about 20 days when I personally asked the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, about the future of tax burdens for our citizens. The answer was that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had not forwarded any act to Parliament to determine the increase in the VAT rate. The Minister of Finance was a little more careful in his statements. Allow me to read page 5 to all of you, all of you who want to follow my words, three lines of value added tax. The increase in value added tax is in the material we received, which is extremely large, extensive, only covers three lines. They read: "The 2008 draft budget is planned for 3 billion 172" and so on, "euro of value added tax revenue, nominally 11.9% more than a year ago. Well, more than 2007. And the Government of the Republic of Slovenia further says: "By increasing the VAT rate from 8.5% to 9% and the standard rate from 20% to 21%," the hard form will "compensate tax reductions from corporate tax". The Government of the Republic of Slovenia recognises, of course, that there will be an increase in VAT in 2008. And, lastly, the basis for this, honourable Members and Members, has been given to them by you with the adoption of the VAT law - I think it is 145th Article - which stipulates autonomously, or let go of the word autonomously, but only the right of access to VAT. Once upon a time, in the old Value Added Tax Act - I think this content was contained in Article 65. From this place I have to remind you once again that it was the people who today make up the Government of the Republic of Slovenia who were once in opposition. And it was through the amendment that they tried to influence the basic proposal of the value added tax law and the amendment, with the first signed by Mr. Janez Janša, to destroy the possibility for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to raise the value added tax. Gentlemen, what you've been doing, if I'm not mistaken, in 1999, you're doing quite the opposite today. Without the adoption of an amendment by the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, which would allow people to know which taxes and how much taxes await them in the coming period - this has been rejected; even more, you write something down, the President of the Government, of course, declares quite another. Once again, the ratio of the value added tax to 11.9%, of course, represents exactly the amount of the reduction in the lower and medium or higher, however you wish, the existing rates of value added tax - once again I stress - from 8 and a half percent to 9 percent and of course the standard rates from 20 to 21%. But we all know what VAT is all about. So much for this increased value added tax rate and government measures to increase fertility, to reduce housing problems, to increase small economies, crafts and everything. Simply, with the tax as you introduce it in the coming year, whose amount and collection system is defined in the Budget Act, the Budget Implementation Act and, last but not least, the VAT Act. From this place, of course, I think, at least in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, two things are unacceptable. For the first time you have agreed to the game of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, you, honourable Members and Members of the ruling parties, after raising tax burdens in the coming years. Secondly, it is unacceptable that you continue to keep secret what is actually stated in the 2008 draft budget and which is signed by government representatives. Let me touch two more things in this implementation. In the beginning, like the words of the Minister of Finance, "we are indeed on the right track" - yes, as long as we are pursuing a 100% tax or fiscal burden on citizens and citizens, this would also be true - one of the presentations by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the sustainability of the public financial act that is before us today. So, the government representative claimed the sustainability of this act. But let me tell you from this town that the cabinet of the President of the Government, namely, Mr Janez Janša, increases the financial resources by over 10% to be within the so-called government services - and we all know where government services belong - increase the financial resources by over 30%. I'm not going into any department. I believe that all those who follow and know the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, its structure, is clear enough that no one in this country can speak about sustainability in a credible way if they wish to speak his word. However, I would touch on three more budget lines, namely the Ministry of Defence, where we have been, as I have already said yesterday, so today I will not talk about this, during the period of agitation or better said agiprostances to enter the military connection.Then there are not many times in this Chamber, through the media and through all media or public opinion broadcasters, that Slovenia will have several synergies with its entry into NATO; and one of them on which it was built is also a reduction in defence funds. This is not the case, the resources for defence within the Ministry of Defence are increasing strongly in the coming years by more than 16%. What is interesting about this title is that we have a number of other institutions that do not reach even 100% or even last year's level of funds received. But from this city, let me also point out the Ministry of Justice, to which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia grants additional funds. More than once, many were put forward, especially with regard to the Law on Courts, the Law on Judicial Service, various projects to reduce judicial backlogs. But whenever then the government representative, whether the Minister or the President of the Government, talks about the so-called judicial backlogs, always stresses that only these have been reduced in the past year. Yes, but let's be so correct and let's talk about why only these have been reduced. Due to the fact that the statistics on judicial backlogs are conducted in one very strange way within this government, based on the number of judges. How much is the case for a single judge. However, we all know that Slovenia has greatly increased the number of judges and therefore it is not a question of the effectiveness of the judicial system, that is, the question of being better judged, quality, within a reasonable time frame, but is the answer to the palm. There has been no reduction in judicial backlogs, and there has been an increase in judges in our country. The backlogs are still the same, only the key to showing the functioning of Slovenian courts has changed and the content has not changed. From this title, we find it so controversial that, on the one hand, one of the Supreme Institutions of the judiciary, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia reduces financial resources, for example, the Supreme Court of Slovenia, where it does not reach even the level before the year, and on the other hand increases the Ministry of Justice's financial resources for a stronger than 10%. Of course, from this title, we find it quite unacceptable that you are not allowing financial resources to be provided to the contractor himself, who should actually care about the quality of the judiciary, but to the Ministry of Justice to increase his funds. On the other hand, once again, I am sorry that the work of Slovenian judges is not more effective and it is not the quality of work that you speak so much about, the element that would naturally trigger smaller judicial backlogs, but you have simply increased the number of judges, changed the conditions for judicial function and all other things, and the question is how this will positively affect the development of judicial backlogs in the past and in the future. From this city, I would also touch the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, whose indexation is 2.3%, despite the fact that I still, as far as I last looked at the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, was yesterday, it says that Slovenia is a social state. We therefore find it unacceptable that individual ministers, following the example of Mr Drobnič, agree to accept this budget, also welcome it within the framework of New Slovenia, while the resources they run are so much rewarded if they are ever rewarded. From this address and all other addresses of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 in the National Party will not be supported. However, further explanations will be provided in the examination of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u13	I invite Mr Rezman to the floor on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My presentation of the DeSUS Group's views will be relatively short and has only three objectives. First time. To say very briefly that we intend to support the proposed budget. Another time. To say that we also intend to support some of the amendments that have been proposed or proposed ourselves. Third time. To express our dissatisfaction with the preparation and manner of work in the adoption of budgets. As far as the budget is concerned, it is fortunate that we are preparing it in relatively favourable social, economic and public financial circumstances and that it will be possible to keep this good trend, which is now showing, in such a way as to improve the implementation of the budget. Another time. We are pleased that some of the amendments have been adopted in the adoption process, and we are particularly pleased that those who are slightly improving or introducing social protection programmes have been adopted. With regard to the way we work, the adoption of budgets or the rebalancing and amendments, probably no one is satisfied with us. As far as the amendments are concerned, it should be mentioned that there was a multitude of them, that some had been accepted, but that those who had been accepted were mostly some kind of a kind, would say, "Apaurinian" amendments, in order to appease the spirits within the coalition. They weren't rationally designed, they were just adopted by some logic that wasn't the most vindictive. Some others or a number of other amendments to those proposing, which in particular advocate for the budget to be cost-effective, have also been within the global scope of budgets - and so is today - and therefore do not contribute specifically to saving. They intend to redirect from one item to items that may not be close enough for the applicant to items that are closer to them. But that doesn't mean that everyone would be bad right now. I am confident that some of the amendments that will be rejected today will come about in the future. After the urgency of matters, they will have to come because the reality calls for some amendments to be implemented. We also estimate that the length of the debate, of this strong tirade, is, I would say, a sort of parliamentary larpurlarism, quite excessive. For it appears that the length and number of discussions in the inverse proportion to efficiency - the more we are debated, the less we accept, the more empty the performance, and this is inconsistent with the efficiency of our work and also with the economy of our work. Let me say something else about the amendments that we support - today we will surely or at least some of our Group of Members will support our amendment, which speaks of the need to fulfil the requirement of the Coalition Treaty and otherwise to create the Ombudsman of the Patient's Rights. However, we believe that the amendment proposing the establishment of the Ombudsman is also justified, and both have a basis in our coalition contract. The contract says that we will provide a friendly environment for children and young people, and that is something that needs to be sacrificed. In financial and institutional terms as well. I hope that sufficient support will also be given to other coalition Members and Members and the National Assembly in general so that these amendments can be implemented. And I hope that there will be no great resentment if, at least some, we do not oppose all the opposition amendments, if we support some, if we are not able to be against some, because that would be against our conscience. And yet I guarantee that our votes will go in the direction of budget support, because there are also some reserves that I do not have time to list in which direction they are going. Even if the budget had not been implemented, as envisaged, it could still be thrown down, they would call it, some kind of brakes that would have prevented some kind of disaster.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u15	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Tank to the floor on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you. In 2002, we introduced two successive budgets and four-year planning of development programmes or projects into our national budgetary planning by amending the Public Finance Act. With this change, which may have been necessary in order to facilitate the planning and maintenance of the fiscal discipline of the country, we have also committed ourselves to making adjustments to this budget, because it is simply not possible to plan it precisely enough as a person might expect. It is worth noting that the 2007 and 2008 budgetary memorandum is based on the Government's assessment that the government's budget deficit, the state budget according to the national methodology for 2008 will be only 0.9% of GDP and therefore the content will also be adjusted to that objective, or that changes for 2008. In the 2008 draft budget, with nominal 6.7% growth in gross domestic product, the government is planning an increase of 4.8% in nominal total government budget revenues and 4.4% in expenditure, which means that further real cuts in budgetary expenditure are planned, and thus a step towards a gradual, gradual correction of the structural deficit. This reduction of the budget deficit by 0.1%, this small step represents a 10% reduction in deficits in relation to the previous year. I don't think this little step is that small. The basic objective of the public financial policy over the period 2007 to 2011 is to address the structural financial deficit and comply with the rules of the Stability Pact, which stipulate that the public finances of the Member States of the European Union should be compensated in the medium term. These steps also gradually achieve this goal. In addition to the relatively high nominal growth of gross social product, and also a relatively stable rate of inflation, some other macroeconomic indicators are good. Export growth is highly assessed, almost 10%, slightly lower than imports of goods and services, which means that these objectives are also being achieved in this field of foreign trade or will be achieved in the right direction. However, the following two figures are also relevant, namely that the number of employees is projected to rise again at a rate of 0.9% and that real gross wage growth is estimated at 3%, which means that this will also have an important impact on economic and social security, on increasing social standards and also on the country's transfer policy. The Government is also planning to rebate the share of tax revenue in the State budget in 2008 – that is, the proportion of GDP – by again reducing by around 0.4%, which means that this share will fall by 2.5% in the proportion of the state budget. And also this trend of unloading is very favourable. Realising the total amount of revenue for 2008 will also be important to our ability to use the European Union funds. In 2008, the changes introduced by the new European perspective 2007-2011 will reduce the possibility of using resources to implement the common agricultural policy measures and increase the potential for the use of funds from the Structural Policy Implementation Funds. This item provides for a 40% increase in the revenue used by the Structural Funds. In other items or types of revenue, an increase is planned in the 2008 budget, in line with the new tax legislation and the general assumptions on budgetary revenue growth in 2008. As far as expenditure is concerned, 8.4 billion is foreseen in 2008 or as mentioned above, 4.4% more than was proposed in 2007. A comparison of budget expenditure for 2007 and 2008 shows that the Government or the Ministry, in the allocation of budgetary revenue spending rights, also follows the development guidelines and objectives of the strategy for the development of Slovenia and, consequently, the Lisbon Strategy and the adopted national programmes and other acts. From the cut in the economic classification, it is noted that labour costs are increasing, are projected to increase by 1.3%, which is less than or about half below the projected inflation rate. This part also means that rationalisation will take place in this part, despite the fact that additional tasks related to the Presidency of the European Union are also foreseen. Also in the case of interest payments in 2008, these funds will require only 2.6% more, or real enough, than in 2007, as nominal increases are the same as planned inflation. Nor do they claim here that this Government is overburdening the country with debt and debt obligations. Here I can reiterate that in the previous mandate, within the mandate of the previous government, 644 billion guarantees and loans have been issued, that at the middle of the government's mandate these funds or those guarantees have been issued or accepted for 331 billion or half as much as was realized in the previous mandate. And given the very positive growth of gross domestic product, this essentially means a real decline in the share of gross domestic product. As far as subsidies are concerned, I think it is right to emphasise that subsidies relating to the implementation of transport policy will increase somewhat or significantly, particularly in rail work. Then there will be a substantial increase in support for education, training of students in the economy, greater emphasis on young researchers, and promotion activities, etc. Higher funds from the Agricultural Fund or the Agricultural Fund for Rural Development are foreseen. As regards transfers to individuals and households, an increase of 1.4% is planned for 2008 compared to the previous year. However, the level of resources required for the financial year depends mainly on the movement of the number of beneficiaries and the coordination of the level of remuneration. And given that the projected increase in employment growth is 0.9%, including higher gross earnings, this growth on this item is not so great, so pronounced. However, this does not mean that social rights are being violated. In the case of transfers to municipalities, it is necessary to take into account that we will introduce a new method of funding for municipalities and that current transfers to municipalities will be significantly reduced, as taxes which will be waived to municipalities will be waived before they are recorded in the state budget. Thus, transfers to municipalities include only transfers in ethnically mixed areas. These include only means of repairing forest roads in private and state forests, means of efficient use of energy and repressing transport due to dangerous beasts. The largest share of transfers to public institutions includes transfers in the field of education, in all items, that is to say in primary, secondary, vocational and higher education. This is also an increase in resources for public institutions, research institutions, higher education and universities, support for postgraduate studies and the construction of information and communication systems, as well as for the training of young researchers and promotion activities and other matters. In 2008 it is also envisaged to reduce expenditure on the purchase and construction of basic funds for direct budgetary users, mainly because some projects from the southern border and in relation to the Presidency of the European Union are being finalised. A total of EUR 389 million has been planned for this purpose. However, the most funds will be for the implementation of projects of the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Education and Sport. The 2008 budget proposal plans 14% more for investment transfers than is foreseen in the 2007 revised budget. Of this, the recipients, who are not budget users, are allocated EUR 189 million and EUR 429 million to the budget. The non-budgeted transfers to Dars from the Cohesion Fund are increased and the budget lines for co-financing rail transport and the cohesion fund infrastructure are increased. I can see that this budget is also dedicated to structural changes aimed at intergenerational solidarity, aimed at economic development and also sustainable development, including knowledge development, and that is why we will support the 2008 budget in our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u17	Thank you very much. And the last one has the word "magic." Squeakle, on behalf of the LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u18	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government! Liberal democracy will not support the 2008 supplementary draft budget. We repeat, this is an unrealistic budget. This budget is based on the non-existent 50 billion sources of value-added tax and excise duty. This 50 billion invented revenue reminds us of the practice of the most negative, the most wrong, the most pro-inflationary execution of public finances in some developing countries and, as has been found in neighbouring Hungary, which is facing major problems today as a result of such activities. We will not support the budget because, as we will discuss below, it gives above all more for the costs of the presidency, for the construction of police stations on the southern border, but does not give, given yesterday's debate and yesterday's vote on amendments, money for school lunches, for the transport of students, nor for the mandatory scope of the scientific research programme in higher education or university. The 2008 budget does not provide legal tasks related to the funding of doctors, so it will be necessary to reduce the number of orthopaedic operations, the number of magnetic resonance checks, the less money to operate at the Cancer Institute, the less money to hire nurses, the less grey operations will be clouded. Let me remind you, fellow Members, fellow Members, what was the winning message at Tuesday's elections to the US Congress: we will reduce taxes for the richest and we will work on reducing the cost of health care and will provide health care for all. In 2008, and in the year of the national elections, we gave this budget to the richest and by saving money to the health insurance company and taking money to the recipients of social transfers, reducing the scope of the rights of those who are most difficult in life. The government boasts in the Explanatory Document of the draft budget in order to reduce the volume of social transfers by 35 billion tolars. That's what the government is bragging about. Look at the papers. The share of social transfers, aid for social transfers, which has always been around 3.5% in Slovenia, reduces the government to 2.9. And that, of course, is the way to save money. These 35 billion, which are saved in two, three years by the Government of Mr Janez Janša, are given, as we know, to the richest. We will not support this budget because it is not a austerity budget or saving on the right programmes on, if you want, those programmes that are really unnecessary in the state budget. And as we will continue to present after the individual amendments, it would be far more reasonable to save, for example, on the costs of international cooperation, now that Americans are also withdrawing. As we have seen this week, he is the only one who has estimated that our Prime Minister and his visit to Iraq should be seen as acceptable only if four military instructors took him on a helicopter. If this were to be done, then there would be less money needed for these activities and we could give more money to encourage investments, such as foreign investment or to help firms in difficulty. But the government doesn't do that. The government is reducing money on development programmes or it is financed in 2008 with resources to be provided only in 2009, 2010 or 2011. To propose a national budget for 2007 and in particular 2008 by including in the first two years of the seven-year financial perspective a total of two weeks of these resources, even though this financial perspective will be formally implemented for at least ten years, is substantively wrong and professionally charlatan. That is why this is an inadequate budget. In this state budget, we do not provide money for Slovenian railways, for the co-financing of certain European projects, and in the National Assembly under an emergency procedure, as if we were in an emergency accepting 100 billion debt for Slovenian railways, but an illegal act. It is illegal because the consumption of the Railway Agency cannot go beyond the budget. And the Railway Agency is not in the air, not in the neighbouring country, but is on the ground of the Republic of Slovenia and is owned, directly owned by the Republic of Slovenia. If this were a so-called railway infrastructure company, a share company, then we could talk about not being included in the budget. Not to include this in the budget, but it is, of course, illegal, untransparent and completely contrary to what the current opposition and the current coalition have taken on. The easiest thing to do is to raise debts. And, as has already been said yesterday, the 2008 budget will also close the year of the last mandate of the Government of Mr Janez Janša and will increase the debt by more than 1,000 billion in this mandate. For over 1,000 billion Slovenian tolars! It started well in the first two years of this mandate. The data clearly show that the debt situation in 2004 was 1,800 billion, that the debt situation at the end of 2006 was estimated by the Ministry of Finance, 2,070 billion and 270 billion more! However, since it is necessary to know that 100 billion purchases of the New Ljubljana Bank have been sold or realised since the previous mandate, the real increase over the first two years was 370 billion in cash flows. And this will continue joyfully in 2007 and 2008, with the realization of a billion euro or 240 billion highway programmes, with the realization of 100 billion additional debt from the Railway Agency, with the realization of debt in particular in those municipalities to which you are taking resources, and also with the financing of the deficit foreseen in 2007 and 2008. And when you put this together, you will get to 1020 billion of increased public debt or increased public debt pressure because the realisation of this debt with the Railway Agency will not only occur if more expenditure is provided in the state budget, but only on condition that Janšev's Government hopes to raise tolls by 40% during the 2008 national elections. These are, of course, inadequate budgetary categories, these are inadequate, wrong, unrealistic budgets, and we will therefore oppose this budget, as is the 2007 budget. In the second part of the introductory presentation, allow me to touch on the individual amendments that we want to make the most illegal, the greatest shortcomings on the expenditure side of this budget to be corrected. I would like to take advantage of this introductory debate in order to ensure that we do not discuss, or later today, whether more money is needed, for example, for the creation of a child advocate programme, or whether it is reasonable and proper to provide additional funds for regional programmes. Of course, we will support such types of amendments, even though they are not amendments to the Liberal Democracy. In particular, we will support those amendments, such as those at the Ministry of the Economy, and I hope that the Minister of Economy will join us today, I understand yesterday that this was difficult in the late hours. We will, however, want to know from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia why it rejects the amendment to promote foreign investment, why it rejects the amendment which would allow it to support a development project in the last year of the mandate of the Government of Mr Janez Janša. The programme we support is the programme under which we maintain production in Revoz. Let us forget that Mr, current Prime Minister of the Government, as leader of the opposition party, has strongly opposed this project. We still understand that, but after he becomes Prime Minister, he starts to support the project. However, we do not understand why the Government failed to provide resources or substantively prepare any additional major economic project to maintain jobs in Slovenia in four years. As of 1 January 2007, we are taking over the euro, so the space of manoeuvre will be much narrower. And in this respect, it is necessary to provide money on projects such as the promotion of foreign investment. We do not understand why the Government rejects the amendment, which provides more money to help businesses in difficulty. We do not wish to harm Slovenian companies, but the fact is that we are currently at the top of the European Union, that the interest rate rises will lead to a decline in the economy and that this will have a negative impact on our economy. I hope that what's happening to us this week, and this is the street, will not spill on the factory yard, because then we'll have further economic problems. But we're going in a very bad direction. We do not understand the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which opposes the provision of additional funds for the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which would primarily ensure better social status for Slovenians and Slovenes. We don't understand that. We do not understand the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which opposes the amendment that Slovenia, if not already in 2007, since you rejected it yesterday evening, I think that somewhere in the middle of midnight you have accepted the amendment that it is necessary to design such a or otherwise mini project, we do not understand the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which rejects the amendment, which provides additional resources for the construction of the second track of the Divača-Koper railway. Why don't we understand that? The government travels through Slovenia and explains 34 major projects this month. Within these large projects, which are expected to cost €23 billion, almost 70% of gross domestic product, there are also €8 billion or €2,000 billion for rail projects, including the high-priority line of Divača-Koper. However, in the 2007 budget, the 2008 budget and the development programme plan, which includes projects until 2011, there is hardly a word about this. Above all, there is not enough resources. And in front of the Slovenian public, "don't worry, we'll spend 2,000 billion to rebuild Slovenian railways," in budgets 2007 and 2008 you don't really provide a tolar, but you just say that the agency should be in debt, it's confused with normal household logic and it's a complete misdirection of the Slovenian public. What will happen in 2011 will hopefully be judged by voters at the 2008 elections. The fact is that in the mandate of Mr Janez Janša, who promises 2,000 billion investments in the railway programme, he has not added a single tolar in the state budget - on the one hand 2,000 billion, on the other hand, or an additional real toll of more money from the budget. And we are proposing an amendment to prepare a construction project and preparatory work. This amendment by the Government, which has previously adopted the Resolution on national projects, rejects without justification. The government also rejects the amendment proposed in order to comply with the Slovenian Constitution, in accordance with the principle that in Slovenia all insured persons and insured persons will be paid to the health register in order to receive treatment from this health treasury when we need it, this Government rejects the amendment to ensure that the health department can only carry out its legitimate tasks. And why? Because Minister Bručan - because the volume of resources in the State budget is reduced by a minus 3% in 2006 and 2007 - has failed to provide health insurance as a source for all further supplementary savings programmes of the same health treasury, but with the assistance of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget on the basis of the request of Minister Bajuk and, in cooperation with or under the chairmanship of Mr Janez Janš, he had to propose the discontinuation of funding for trainee doctors in the budget. We propose that this money be returned on the basis of the law. The government says, "We reject the amendment," as if the government knew what will be adopted in ZIPRO. The government must propose a budget in accordance with the laws. And under the law, no additional resources were provided for doctors, nor for funding higher education. Today you will probably reject all these amendments. This will only ensure that the 2008 budget is not feasible, so we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We continue to discuss the individual parts of the State budget proposal, namely the general work, the specific part of the supplementary draft budget and then the development programme plan. We are moving on to the general part of the 2008 supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. As you know, Members of Parliament and Members report to the debate by pressing the button and by raising their hands. I'm opening the first round of debate. Please. Thank you very much. The first one has the word, Mr Veršnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. I was also encouraged by the talk of my previous speaker, a colleague who had just had a very pragmatic and misleading speech in my words. I was particularly disturbed by what is said about borrowing or unprepared money in the budget to build a known track and to adapt railways. I would remind him that we have recently adopted a guarantee law here in this House. In this way, we have ensured that the project or all projects related to the construction of railway adaptation are proceeding normally and specifically supported by the guarantee law. It means that this matter will in the future, too, because it has real foundations. I would also like to say that why we should build from the budget, that is to say from the means, and in fact also to finance generations that will use this infrastructure in the years to come. Why don't we divide this burden among today's generation as well as future generations. I'm sure I won't carry any track, no track, no train with me, but that'll be left to my apprentices, my children, and my grandkids. And I think it is right that this intergenerational funding is more evenly distributed and we are not actually obliged to fund all this today's generation. And we, or this government, are of the promises made in the past that this track, which we are talking about, will be built by the year 2000, and these promises have been constantly repeated, and we are witnessing today, in 2006, when nothing has actually been done by 2004 and things are so far from 2004 that we have real foundations for this infrastructure to be built. I am sure that the Government and the Ministry of Transport are very well aware that this track and the modernisation of the railway infrastructure are essential, because we all know that they have already appeared abroad about a drain, that is to say the departure of this main transit route across Slovenia. I'm sure no one in our government would dare to let that go. I hear the same or similar readings both on the Finance Committee and here in our hall, financing highways. I've been in the world for quite some time, and I've been listening from the beginning to how we're going to build the highway cross first in 1996, 1998 to 2004. It had to pass in 2004 that we managed to finance the roads in Slovenia after severe hardships or after the financing of meals, so that we could build as many of this road cross as possible and not have been built yet, but that crucial thing that was, the construction of the trojan tunnels, so that today we can travel as hard as we can on this route. However, we listen to the evidence that in the past budgets we have changed essentially the financing of this construction in the sense that the highway cross is built with the State guarantee and that there are ongoing works on this and there are no backlogs, as we have always listened to in the past, and in fact there have always been some pressure on additional funding because this funding has always been made largely out of budgetary resources, which we know about everything we want and what we need to have, but it has to be distributed rationally, in my view also in the future. These roads, these railways, they're going to be left to the craftsmen. Now that this highway section is built as much as it is to a large extent and when it is capable of self-financing, in my personal opinion it is perfectly right for us to hang this self-financing as well. And I don't actually see any problem with that here. Clearly, in this way, we ensure that the work is carried out smoothly and that we will finally get closer to the goal that was outlined at the time of independence, that we will build the road from the Adriatic to the Hungarian border and the second cross from the Jesenic to the Croatian border. And that's a guarantee. And why do we always criticize this system when we know that we are not able to finance these things, so much of our own resources that we do not interrupt these works? And from the promises that have been and have moved away from year to year, we are now faced with the situation that both important infrastructure projects run normally, unhindered and finally I think that we will be able to stick to those goals that have been planned in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Only three highlights. First of all, as far as the second track is concerned. According to national programmes adopted by governments in the near past, the second track should be built by 2000. I am interested in how this was planned at the time, in which assumptions and starting points we do not have that in 2007. I think that these programmes, which were then adopted only by speculative nature and we are to show some public programme that this was a fine picture, and in practice nothing has been done. In 2000, this story after the Squill should be closed. But he was also a minister in one of those previous governments. Well, you were in the last government minister who was back in 2002. As regards the debt that we are now so keen to deal with and potentialise. The fact is that guarantees and also leased loans for 331 billion were issued during this government period. That's half the term. In the previous government, the previous term was 644 billion. The fact that gross domestic product growth is projected at 7.5% in 2007 and 6.7% in 2008 means relatively significantly less than what you did when you were working in these governments. This means that the share of gross domestic product is significantly less real, which means that they are [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] significantly less sensitive, have a significantly lower impact on public finances. [[..]] However, as regards the payment of the motorway programme alone, there is no need to adopt any additional incentives. This threat with 40% toll irritation can be compensated in a completely different way. Given that toll payments are only realized in part 60%, because you have introduced an open system in some areas, it is possible only with a rise of 40%, that is from 60% to 84%, to compensate for all those fears that you so like to stress. By the way, I explained this to you once in Study 17, about four months ago, and it is obvious that you failed to verify that this is possible, feasible and whether this increase by 40% on the scale of tolls compensates for the irritations you are talking about. I think so. In full, this problem of paying and covering the liabilities arising from the hiring of Darsa loans is only payable from the increased volume of tolling. There's no need for any encouragement. If there is any interference that may also occur due to inflationary impacts, this will eventually only make it a little easier, but this does not mean absolutely nothing to be implemented, but an open system needs to be turned into a closed system. Once the highway system is complete, it'll be easier when the GPS is done, but it'll be even easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Since I'm still seeing your hands up, I'd like you to reenlist. Please. Thank you very much. Minister Bajuk said earlier that he would come to the second round, so I'm giving the word mags first. Gypsies. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u24	Mr President, few Members and Members of Parliament. Allow me to respond primarily in my debate to the inaccuracies and irregularities that have been committed by Members before me. I think that the Slovenian public needs to be told once again about what the model was and how this government model has substantially changed and what the results of this change in this model or the conditions of goods are. Slovenia decided in 1994 to build motorways mainly with domestic construction operations, so we said that we would do this in a longer period of time and not in three years, as Croatians did with either Turkish builders or, I would say, builders from Eastern, South-Eastern Europe and built motorways in three years. However, of these motorways, not even a tolar of revenue into the state budget in Croatia. We decided to build with a domestic operation with three sources: petrol tolar, debt and then tolls, which restore the volume of debt because we have a gas tolar. And of course, every one of these three parts would be about one third. According to the capacity of Slovenia's construction operation, it is possible to implement around 100 billion funds per year, 100 billion in the scope of the programme, so it is necessary to commit about 30 billion additional billions per year, to have about 30 billion tolls and to contribute 30.35 billion from the state budget. This was carried out until 2005. In 2005, of course, it was said, as far as this is concerned, that the motorway programme will be completed in 2013 and the rest of the gas toll and toll surplus in the period until the repayment of credits would be over 75 billion tolars. These are the calculations of the Faculty of Economics. However, this money would have already started to be earmarked from 2011 onwards for financing the third and fourth development axes. Slovenia would build motorways by 2013 and stop repaying loans around 2020, 2025. When you decided in 2005 that you would no longer pay $35 billion from the state budget, this collapsed. It is therefore necessary to extend the repayment time of the loans to 2070, these are the calculations of the Economic Institute of the Faculty of Law. Mr Hvauc, if you find it funny, see the newsletter of the Faculty of Economics and the numbers are very clear. A closed electronic tolling system should be introduced by 2070 and 2008. This means that people who have moved to Grosuplje - and the price in Grosuplje is a square meter flat lower than Ljubljana due to a variety of different categories, but among them is the fact that no highway is paid there - that these people who have moved to Grosuplje under the assumption that they will, of course, drive in an open system to Ljubljana to work will suddenly be in a closed system. Some 600 to 700 000 Slovenes and Slovenes made such decisions whether they paid more in Ljubljana and the square meter or moved, depending on whether they moved to or across the toll station. Why aren't there so many more apartments in Logatco and houses in Logatco? Because before Logatec of course is Brezovica - like a toll station. Why are the houses being built next to Thor's? Because the cost for Thor is higher for - we know, every day 250 tolars, back and forth - 500 tolars, times 30, and this is naturally accumulated at the annual level. When you introduce - and you will have to introduce it - a closed toll system will change the net income position for 700 000 Slovenians, Slovenian citizens. And you did that because you didn't know how to save in the rebalance for 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008. But that's not the only effect. The second effect is that, due to the repayment of loans by 2070, more interest will have to be paid for 75 billion. And third effect, if I had said earlier, if we were to maintain funding from the state budget of 35 billion by 2012, we would have - this is called the net present value of future returns and the state of the project - a surplus of 75 to 80 billion in 2013. This would be the source for the Celtics and for what Mr Janša promised in Koroška. The third development axis - this money is not there. Mr State Secretary, Mr Bozič, well knows that the third and fourth development axis of the road, which was the dilemma, is whether or not they will be toll roads. And it is quite clear that this will now have to be - whether it will now be electronic tolling or partially open, partially closed system - a system on which people will have to pay the toll in order to get from Koroška to Ljubljana in advance. It was open - colleague Marko Pavliha as former Minister of Transport and current Vice-President of the National Assembly - that is the question of whether we will be able to finance the third and fourth development axis, according to domestically, with resources that do not require tolling. Since these two axes allow certain flows, which are also used by tourists and so on, and if there are no tolls, you are walking around this part of Slovenia. This story is now practically closed because it is, of course, negative for this project. So much for the freeway. And that is why, of course, it is wrong in the 2008 budget not to provide real resources and even to speak, because we will introduce a closed system and we will raise the tolls. Do you know, it doesn't matter whether you're going to raise 700,000 more people to the unit or you're going to take 700,000 more people, but the fact is that the tolls are going to rise; and those of you who know little about transport policy, you know what the result is. People will start taking roads along state roads and then we will have two kinds of citizens, one in a closed system and one on state roads. And the problems that will arise on state roads, in villages, in smaller towns, in Mengš and so on, will be enormously greater than if we managed to maintain real resources for motorways, and it would not be necessary to close the system to the extent that you have to do it now. And about the debt. Mr. Tanko's gone. The fact is that by 2004, Slovenia had a debt of under a thousand 900, 000,800 billion, given that 1,800 billion had been in debt, while Banka Slovenije had another 100 billion in purchases, 105 billion in purchases. I think that this number is the right number for the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank was 1,700 billion because it is below 28% of GDP in the figures at the time. And the fact is that this number is now going to increase to 2,800 billion, 2,900 billion, these are inexcusable numbers. However, it will grow by just that or not, depending on what will happen in the 2008 and 2007 budgets. And since we have only two important items in the 2007 budget, I will say, the forecast is not EUR 500 million, but EUR 1000 million in profit tax because we have a high share in profits and income from assets and because we are even using it for the ongoing use of "signurage", a single income from the issue of euro coins, for which, Mr Minister, it would be good for the Government to put it safely in reserve; but not because the reserve is not increasing. And since we have all these resources that are extremely questionable, it will be impossible for economic reasons, unless we limit consumption, unless it saves in the last year of the Janša government, to close the budget without raising VAT. These are numbers and therefore it is not strange, and I conclude that the President of the Government ordered his new strategic council: "As your first task, tell me where to take 50 billion tolars that I do not yet have in the 2008 budget, because I am still afraid to raise VAT and I will not do it until the end of 2007?" And Mr Bole said that it is really impossible to raise VAT because for at least 50% of Slovenians this will significantly change the net income position and it will be worth it again to take to Trst, Gorica, Celovec, Gradec, Croatia, Hungary for purchases. This is what experts' studies are talking about and we are having a debate today, and that is why we cannot confirm such a budget so fictitiously, untransparently, even in certain parts of the illegally closed one. The best thing today is to close the 2008 budget debate, wait for what the Strategic Council will do, and then Mr Minister, Mr President of the Government will have to come to the National Assembly again. After an unnecessary discussion in the last month and a half, we would not even be conducting it if Mr President of the National Assembly did what he had to do - look at the paper - to see that he lacks 50 billion and the paper to return it back to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, they do so in parliaments acting as budgetary authorities, which are sovereign to the government. This Parliament is known, it is not, and therefore we are having this debate needlessly, because we will be having this debate on completely different numbers over a bad year again in this National Assembly; and then I will be reading some of the elements of today's debates from the magnetogram. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u25	Thank you very much. As chairman, of course, I do not give myself the right to a replica, but I note that transport infrastructure is certainly one of the key factors in the budget, but of course it is not the only one, so we are still at work in general, and it is clear that everyone can discuss what lies on his heart or on his soul. I invite my colleague Mir Petk to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good bye to all of you. In these two days, we have heard quite a bit about the so-called collapse of public finances, about the state's wastefulness, about the government's wastefulness, and at the same time today we have heard some bitter news about the fact that the budgetary user of the Ministry of Health intends to reduce budgetary resources. We heard a statement saying that we are dealing with "Minister minus 3%," I think this is a very flattering address for Mr Bručan, because the previous governments had "ministers plus 3%". We know why they got that name. I think that this reduction in budgetary resources with the budgetary user is due to the good work of the Minister and the Ministry, not to the reduction of the standard of health care, because, despite the reduction of budgetary resources, the 2007 budget proposal of the Republic of Slovenia, the 2008 budget proposal of the Ministry of Health with internal reserves or internal transfers increased the funds for the primary health care and hospital health investment programme by EUR 2.2 million in 2007, representing 23.9% increase in the integral part of the investment. The investment in hospital health, together with investments in primary health care, is thus almost €50 million and 56% of the total budget of the Ministry of Health. In the coming year and in 2008, there will be an increase of €16.5 million for investments, which will also allow for the reliable implementation of all ongoing investments in Slovenian hospitals. Mr President, allow me to turn a little bit into this particular part of the budget, because I am speaking. I would like to say this that such a policy of the Ministry of Health will also provide some money or a lot of money for the construction of the surgical and gynaecological block to the general hospital in Slovenj Gradec. This fact is particularly important for the region of Korea, which has been awaiting this investment since 1994. This surgical gynaecological block is completely permanent and no longer meets the modern standards of this millennium. A total of 3.7 billion tolars have been dedicated to the reconstruction and upgrading of the Slovenian National Hospital in the next three years. Koroška has not been given such attention to the state budget for a long time. In 2007, there were 665 million tolars for the Slovenian hospital, the 2008 budget, which we are talking about today, 1.8 billion tolars and an additional 823 million tolars in 2009. This gynaecological-natal block, or surgical block, was built from a distance in 1959 and did not receive any investment attention during these years. Of course, this sum of 3.7 billion will not be sufficient, it will take at least once more the sum to restore 90% of the write-off and keep the equipment up to date, but the start is nonetheless. Unfortunately, the former ruling elite did not have the will to reach out to invest in the Korean region. They had 12 years of Minister of Health, today's director of the Slovenian National Hospital was sitting where Dr. Marko Pavliha is sitting today and it was necessary to wait for the change of power to reach this very important investment for the whole of Koroška. At the beginning of today’s session, my colleague Paul quoted our famous letter, but because we are just talking about the Ministry of Health and Health, allow me to quote Hippocrates. He said a long time ago, "Life is short, opportunity rare, experience deceptive, and decision difficult." My decision to support the 2008 budgets will not be difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u27	Thank you very much. And Mr. Hwauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Given that some predecessors have discussed the importance and problems of transport infrastructure, I will also start here and end with another topic. In particular, Cvikl said that the previous team, the previous set decided to build roads during a tax period, domestically operational, etc. And of course, it will also come out financially in such a short time that this programme will then just fill the budget and we will develop out of it, I don't know what else. True, this was previously built in a longer period of time, meaning slower, with slower dynamics. But we must not forget that the situation is changing. First of all, we are in a globalised world where this transport is constantly increasing, we have entered the European Union, which has further changed some things, and thirdly, there are still many areas in Slovenia where there are no links to motorways. And then talking about building slowly is the question of whether it is acceptable for all parts of Slovenia. So we had to find some accelerated model of highway construction that would allow more remote places to reach some quality roads or highway links. In addition, the construction of highways represents a long-term investment that will be used for several generations. As a result, a model has been chosen which allows funding to be extended and, on the other hand, to cover the revenues of tolls. This is already reflected in the accelerated construction of motorways and this will also be reflected in future, without any specific implications for public finances. Fears or some dark predictions that tolls will have to be raised, I fully agree with my colleague Tank that this will not be the case. It is only necessary to cover everything; today some drive free on highways, and some highways are largely paid. And that's why some second-rate citizens are the ones who are paying, not the ones like my colleague Queikl mentioned that it doesn't matter whether we capture more or less, but if we do a closed system, one of them will be driving on state roads and then we'll have some second-class citizens. No, we have them today because some of them drive practically free. So much for that. In view of the time, I will speak a few more words on the issue already drawn from the 2007 budget and is continuing in the 2008 budget - this is VAT hikes. A little history first. In 2001, when the former Prime Minister of the Government was still a Finance Minister, he advocated raising VAT, with the aim of raising VAT revenues to represent greater public investment, which would then boost higher economic growth. At the time, no one took note of the comments made by various macro-economicists, including Mr Veljko Bole, who warned that the effects of the VAT increase would be negative. Nor did the Government feel that it was particularly necessary to adopt some public criticism, nor did it calculate the actual impact of this larger state spending on economic growth and so on. And what were the results? The data for 2000 show that the country's investments, investment investments even fell by around 3 billion in real terms, that the Bank of Slovenia notes that there have been major inflationary pressures and that all the effects of the VAT increase at the time have been spent on budgeting, public sector wages and transfers to PPIZ. So none of what was said as the main reason was true, nothing positive. While the then government had to stress this in particular, it did not reduce its income, it did not reduce the tax on paid salaries and did not lower the nominal rate of corporate income tax, if I say so. None of this, it's just a VAT raise. The current government is these three, as I've listed, already done, or these things in a time period are going on and will be realized. There will be an increase in VAT, but we have nothing to predict from the LDS, apart from some sightings. Only forecasts - such as we have been listening to since the 2005 budget rebalancing to bring about the collapse of the public finances of the 2006 budget, 2007, and now the 2008 budget. Nothing concrete, just predictions that have never come true until now. And I'm sure they won't in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u29	Thank you very much. A replica? Mr. Squeakle, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u30	The replica of the fellow Member is very simple. Mr Member, it is not my prediction that VAT will be raised, this is the announcement of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I'll read you the numbers. Domestic taxes on goods and services, value added tax, performance assessment 2006 - 2,671 million euros, is 2.7 billion euros; 2007 - 2.8; 2.843 if we round 2.8 billion. In 2006, I repeat, 2.7 billion euro revenues in 2007. But look at him, draft budget 2008, an estimate of VAT revenues of 3.2 billion tolars. Instead of the usual increase, which was very precise in 2007 - 160 million euros - the increase in 2008 is 320 million euros, once more. And now you explain to me who's making it up. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia wants 3.2 billion VAT revenues, even though they are only 2.8 in the 2007 budget; and the average annual increase is only 150, 160 million euros, and in 2008 this increase is twice as high, the growth rate is 11.9 and why. As stated in the explanation of the draft budget, since 21% and 9% of the rate is calculated, lower and higher VAT rates are in line with the document of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia; and this is therefore an additional increase. Fiction, fiction, but not ours, this is a document of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It expects 3.2 billion VAT revenues after only 2.7 billion in 2006 and only 2.8 billion for 2007 without a change in VAT rates. Such a big jump really without raising VAT cannot be carried out and that is why it is a fiction. But I'm not saying that it's necessary to raise VAT, I'm finishing, I'm not talking about it, I'm just talking about the numbers that the government has put into the budget and is happily using them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u31	Thank you very much. And Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u32	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers and secretaries, colleagues and colleagues! Since we have listened to ourselves yesterday and today on these 2007 and 2008 budget proposals, today we have in particular an updated 2008 budget programme, which is ahead of us, the debate is under way and, of course, follows some common objective of this government, this coalition, which, of course, has different priorities than the previous government. Thank God, we'd say Slovenian voters and voters, and that's how it is. Last but not least, it is right to discuss this, and it is right that we have different views, because this is a Parliament, however. I don't get it wrong, my fellow Squirrel, who's just saying his own, and who's defending his own, and I totally understand who has that right. However, I am confident as a member of this coalition and when I have taken a good look at this budget and the things that this Government, which this treaty commits to me, seems to me to be following these objectives very clearly and that it is balanced, developmentally adjusted, watching all of Slovenia, not just central Slovenia, trying to share this piece of cake, which is available for distribution as it is. Everything depends on the many opportunities that everyone has [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Whether national, local or European, some options are limited. It is definitely true that much will depend on our successful economy, macroeconomic indicators. Today I am talking more or less about the 2008 evaluations, neither Minister Bajuk nor anyone else can know exactly what will happen at that time. It's just an evaluation, a prediction, Mr. Squeakl. I think so. That he knows that, in order to know exactly how the 2008 revenue story will happen, there is probably no one in this Slovenia. It is true, however, that Slovenia has made great strides in this area in my opinion, and we certainly want even more and better. I think it is certainly an opportunity for this budget, which will be optimistic enough, as I have said, and developmentally oriented, to give certain positive developments, even better results, and above all we will try in the entire area of Slovenia those things that have been neglected, to definitely correct. 2008 will certainly be an extremely important year for Slovenia, not just because there will be parliamentary elections; because we will preside over the European Union. This is certainly also a significant cost for Slovenia, definitely. At the same time, it is a great honor and an opportunity to make good use of it. I believe that preparations are going well and that Slovenia will know this great opportunity to make good on everything that we may not have been so successful so far. In 2008 in many ways, in my opinion, I believe that success will be even more confirmed in this sense. We are talking about VAT, we have been listening here for several months to the story of tax reform, the 2007 and 2008 budgets. Much has been said, including a lot of clear answers from the Minister of Finance and others, that this thing is just that the Government will do anything to ensure that no change is made. I'm sure no government, no minister just wants to raise VAT. Who likes that? Neither do I, and you, Mr Squeakle, are, certainly, as a consumer and as a politician responsible. I am confident that it will do all the internal possibilities it has under the budget, that this will not happen either. The fact is that what I think is very important for this budget and future budgets, how we will be even more successful in drawing on European money, is a demanding process. We do not have so much to choose from professional people in this area, because this has also been shown by the previous Government, the current according to the indicators shows a big step forward, there are reserves here, and here probably the Government also has all the wishes and objectives to increase this success, there will probably have to be a number of improvements in the legislative field and so on. In short, here is a whole bunch of responsibilities in the government, in Parliament, to try to make this segment, which we want to optimize in this 2008 budget, even more eloquent in these many European money-related projects. This is the desire of both the position and the opposition and certainly the Slovenian government to be as successful as possible. The emphasis of the budget, which I think is extremely important - but I do not come from Ljubljana, I come from Posavje for sure this road programme. This is a story, again unfinished and also yesterday's many smaller amendments have given attention here and the emphasis of the coalition of individual regions in our Slovenia, that we are still very weak here. And that definitely this regional network is extremely weak, it's nourished, it's destroyed, it's still a bit of a flood, winter and so on. And we definitely have to follow in this area, especially those regions and those congregations that unfortunately don't have a highway cross, that's a big handicap, believe me. And those who have this have significantly better starting points, significantly better development opportunities than those regions that this happiness has not touched with the highway cross. And in order to update this regional network normally, the goal is certainly also these governments and also this coherent regional development of Slovenia, the balance of Slovenia, because we too are citizens who do not have this happiness to live along the highway, and we also want faster development and we want faster mobility and so on. And here I support the government that it wants to take steps forward. All of a sudden, we will not succeed, regrettably, in this mandate, neither we, Members, nor the Government, because this supply is too large, too heavily fed and it will be difficult to bring it to the level that citizens, Members, mayors would like. But what I think is very important is what is also one of my greatest desires and goals, and probably also the governments, that we have started seriously with the third development axis. This is an alternative to the highway cross, that we will also be the part of Slovenia, the landscapes connected by the third development axis, from Dravograd to Metlika, to find once in the future this black belt, which is literally removed from this story, to reach this rapid link of roads and thus this word will become action, greater balance, greater visibility, greater opportunity for development. In short, all that troubles us at a time when we don't have this story called a fast road or quick mobility either for the economy or for citizens. I think that this project is going in the right direction, and the Government supports it, and has certain items already in the budgets. This will certainly be a major contribution to the success story of the highway cross, which will give Slovenia a new start, an economic one and a different one, than it does now, and will increasingly or less accumulate in the centres, the more empty the countryside, the more the regions are being emptied, which of course is not the purpose of this government, this coalition, and certainly of this Ministry of Finance, but it is the desire to preserve it. And here, I think, this budget also has this emphasis. That story, which we also hear a lot about in the National Assembly - probably also because many colleagues come from former services in this area - are Slovenian railways, infrastructure and these things. Many times, it has already been said that this area has been neglected in the past and that we also want to regulate this area of infrastructure, of course gradually, because it is a large asset, a great deal. The government has already prepared certain amendments and has adopted them. Certain guarantees that this segment in the field of rail infrastructure will also be slowly regulated and made more competitive, faster and more punctual so that this, including this transport thing, which is extremely important for each country, as well as for Slovenia, slowly leads to the level where we want to be more competitive in the European space, both in the field of freight and passenger transport. Of course, all other investments in other areas that are also important for life, such as education, culture, sport, health, all this is important and has a special weight. There are also items that should have been allowed in certain parts, and here, too, it continues to invest heavily in this infrastructure, in this knowledge, which is so important for Slovenia, because we want to invest as much money as possible in this area, so that it will return gradually. So I am deeply convinced when I look from my point of view, that this coalition and this government give priority to what we call more coherent regional development, that Slovenia has both the north, the south, the east and the west, not only the central work, and that we are trying to look also at Prekmurje, Posavje, the White landscape and where and here some possibilities that this Slovenia is developing more evenly in this spirit. It is true, however, that these extensions, which have been made in this 2008 budget, are estimates, are assumptions, are positive, they go in the same direction as the coalition advocated by the Government. I am convinced that this gives even greater success to our Slovenia and that at the end of this 2008 term, when we will also preside over the European Union, we will show the voters and voters that we have been a successful country during this period and that we have done what the previous governments have somewhat neglected or have had other priorities in their funding. This government, this coalition has you, and I think we need to support you today, and the matter will go the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u33	Thank you, too. I'll give the floor to Minister Bajuk if he wants.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We hear and listen to the repetitive assessment of how Slovenia is at the edge of a complete collapse, but this is repeated with great conviction and is being created, or is trying to create some atmosphere, that we are really standing on the brink of some terrible crisis, where it will actually bring down everything we Slovenians have built in our history. In fact, the data are different. The fact is that Slovenia did not have so high economic growth for many years that the public financial situation is actually improving, a little bit later, and yesterday's data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia showed another real step in the right direction, namely that employment in the Republic of Slovenia increased by 0.5% in September. Of course, unemployment, so-called registered unemployment, has also been reduced to 8.8%, which has not yet happened. However, a recurring assessment of where we are and what can happen to the evil and terrible in our country, in such a way, a recurring way, but perhaps only something will happen. I hope that the Slovenian public following these discussions will not forget, when they listen to these zealous talks, to specific data and to their own experiences of life, as everyone can see that what statistics assess and show is actually happening in everyday life. Well, let me put it another way, since 1996, the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia has been preparing an index on what the atmosphere is in the Slovenian economy or the climate in the Slovenian economy. The latest data for August-September 2006 shows that since 1996, when the index is registered and evaluated, it has never been as high as now and has actually been higher, namely 15 points above average, that it actually claims that people, when they ask them how our common future is viewed, estimate that this is in a positive way, in a much more positive way than ever before. That's also information. Now for the 2008 budget. Again, we have heard these fervent speeches not only of disaster, how really irresponsible it is, they are using texts that are not exactly in line with good taste, but only with minimal respect, but we are already used to it and will not respond to it at all. However, the fact is that this budget is proposed by this Government, which could have achieved something, and it is absolutely clear and verifiable differently than it has in the past. If we're just looking, and I'm going to repeat this, we need to look at not only the budget, but all four cash registers, because if we don't look at all four cash registers, we fall into the same trap that we fell into in the past, when we inherited and assumed responsibilities, ZPIZ was in charge of a little over 40 billion, and the health department was in charge of a few billion, and the budget looked cute. But when we've cleaned all of this up, and we've cleaned it up, we have to look, if we're going to compare it, all of it, all of it, all of it. And what has happened in these four cash registers and what is happening on the basis of these proposals that you have before you today and which you will now decide. Indeed, the deficit is shrinking, falling above what we also anticipated when the budget in force for 2007 was adopted in this National Assembly and discussed by 25% to 0.9% of GDP. And in 2008 at 0.8%. And if you take all four years, what has already happened in 2005 and is verified, plus our best estimates for 2006, what we have, because at the end of the year there is not yet, you know, I can't prove here things that haven't happened yet, but on the basis of our estimates and estimates in 2007 and 2008, we assume that on average we will be in deficits of all these four cash registers under this government, which is supposed to have some kind of disaster, 0.97% of GDP, which is 44% lower than the average of the previous government period. Is this what all the goals have been achieved? Of course not, but it's a fact that can't be covered. Secondly, I have to repeat again and I think it is right that the Slovenian public understands this better, how Europe actually sees us and why it has such positive assessments as regards the Republic of Slovenia. In order to be able to compare countries with each other, all countries must report every six months on the actual situation, based on a methodology that is uniform for all. And this methodology is called ESA 95. This goes on -- not as many countries do, different countries have different systems of their own public finances, and almost everything in Europe has a cash flow -- but it's based on a business event, the real expenditure is registered on the basis of when the expenditure actually took place, not when the cash flow recognised it when it was paid. In Slovenia we did not have this and we had to do it now, not just now, since we entered the ERM2 we have already reported on these matters, we had to do our best and our professional services at the Ministry of Finance at the Statistical Office still have a way to adjust to the new way of reporting and registering these data. And we don't have data for the previous years since 2000, we don't have it back yet, but it might be done over time, but so far there's only this data since 2000. What do these data show? That from 2000 until the end of 2004 the deficit was based on this methodology used by Europe to compare all countries with each other, the deficit of the whole sector of the country, you know, now even wider than public finances, more than four cash registers, everything that potentially falls under the broadst concept of the country as such. It is said that public institutions, foundations, all that is hidden in our system in some sense from the eyes of the ordinary citizen. On this basis, it was found, and this is comparable to the data already verified by the Eurostat European Statistics Service, which was a deficit of 3.9% of GDP in 2000. In 2001, this deficit increased to 4.3%. If we dreamed of entering the euro immediately or respecting the Maastricht criteria, it would be impossible, but it should not be so high. Then, in 2002, it fell to 2.5%, again to 2.8% in 2003 and finally to 2.3% in 2004. If you take the average of this five-year period, it is 3.16% of GDP. On the basis of this data, let us see what has happened now that this government that is supposed to bring Slovenia to the brink of disaster, and what we have done. In 2005, this fell to 1.4%, and according to the best estimates we now have, which we have already reported to Europe, we expect that in 2006 the worst case will be 1.7%. So, on average, it's 1.55% in this catastrophic period. Interesting thing is, 1.55% of GDP. If you take all the funds, all of them, not just public finances plus all the institutions and funds that we've been given, but that's 49% of the average of the previous period. This is the government that's supposed to be causing the disaster. Indeed, we are proposing in this 2008 budget project, unless we can do anything else in order to urgently raise VAT, but this is proposed by the same Government, which last year, when we prepared the 2007 budget, came forward decisively and said, "We will begin by abolishing the tax on paid salaries." How are we going to fund this? You don't know! You can go and check your magnetograms, and those guys are talking passionately about some disaster that's supposed to happen. At that time, we said that we would take certain measures that would not require us to raise VAT in 2007. Ladies and gentlemen, the VAT will not be increased in 2007. Today we're looking at 2008. Indeed, once again, if we fail, not only the Government, but also with your help in this National Assembly, some further changes in the area of public finances, this can happen to us, but we are sure not. Why not? This is not an assessment that it would have been wiped out of the pocket, we estimate that this will not happen, as we have already said today, when we started this debate, we have been looking at the expected revenue on the basis of very conservative assumptions, because that is how it must be. We must not play with money, and certainly this Ministry of Finance with the Minister in principle does not play with the'money'. And what did we say? That we have prepared it on the basis of Umar's assessments made by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development in the spring. Today, we know that things are a little bit different, to the best of them, that this will mean some help. That's enough, I'd say, an excuse not only to watch us not sell fog, but to really expect things to be a little different. On the other hand, another fact is that this Government adopted a programme, reforms, a very important programme that is currently being implemented, within a time frame that also requires of you the things that we heard last morning, I think that it is justified to work in this National Assembly in view of what is coming and what are the proposals, proposals for amendments to laws, such and others, that this is a great burden for you, honourable Members and Members. But we are doing the budget on the basis of what we have in hand, and we need to work on it on the basis of the legislation currently in force, knowing that we are in some procedure that is truly unusual, because such changes have not yet occurred in the past at the same time. Perhaps these assessments of some irresponsibility have been the result of previous experience from previous years, and there will certainly be a number of memories in this National Assembly, because some of you were also Members in previous periods, when the budget was not for the future, but we were adopting budgets in this National Assembly somewhere in the second half of the year. Yes, at the time it was easier to make budgets, because the time for which he was preparing was already partly over. That's what we did. It's been a long time. And thank God we have removed such scratches in Slovenia. And we are making a budget based on the best assessment of what can happen to us in the future. And there is no government, not this, not the previous, not the next, which will be able to make a budget on any other basis, but on future assessments, there is always an assessment of the future, some looking at it in black, very black, and some of us are working on verified data from the professional services, and this is our own office for macroeconomic analysis and development. I am sure, as I have said many times before, that such a VAT change or even a VAT change will not occur, because I know that in a year, when we watch what has actually been going on, what laws, what further changes this National Assembly will adopt, we will be able to make a better assessment and we will also put an end to this. Among other things, not on the basis of the opposition's proposals, because we have not yet heard many suggestions on how we could and where we could specifically reduce public spending, but just well-intentioned warnings, let us lower it a little bit further. And we're lowering it. In fact, public spending will decrease and decrease. And as I said yesterday, and I will repeat today, if we compare all four cash registers and compare this period with the past, then we have to exclude European funds. And how was that in the past? In 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004, this public consumption of all four cash registers amounted to between 44% of GDP and 43.6%, then again 44 and again 43.6 on average, i.e. simply 43.8. And what is this government planning with this budget that is in front of you today? This public consumption, so comparable, will fall by 1.9% of GDP. And why the comparison with GDP? Because, finally, it is - you know, toying with absolute numbers, without comparing with the reality of how our economy grows, is senseless and highly misleading. Now, here's a little something about doctors and trainees. We've heard that, too, and I know we'll hear it again. What exactly is this whole thing about? You know we're already instituting a gradual abolition of taxes on paid salaries. Of course, this saves certain funds because the expenditure is reduced. In all those sectors where the government or government institutions have to pay taxes on paid salaries, it is now less. And that's a little less money, of course. Of these funds, which we will save by abolishing this tax, and which, of course, were paid by health bills - yes, she had to pay, so was - we will use two-thirds of this health savings to take over the payment of trainees and tertiarys. They're not motorists, they're not people who are completely foreign to the health sector! Trainees and trainers, by preparing and training, actually carry out a specific task that is fully in line with the purpose and purpose of health care itself. Are we downgrading something? If anything, at least one third of the additional funds will remain in the health treasury. However, we must ask ourselves legitimately how it is possible that it is from those sources that introduced this tax on paid wages years ago and that they really did intervene in the funds that were intended for health care, that government is now removing it, and we hear the obvious as if they were stealing something. Dear Members and Members! By eliminating the tax on paid wages, we also allow your support to clean up these things and bring them to some normality they have not known since this tax on paid wages was introduced. Slovenian railways - welcome to Slovenia. Slovenian railways are one of the biggest problems facing the Republic of Slovenia. Why? Just for some comparison, it'll be better understood. Experts' assessments and these are - estimates for future investments are always slightly lower than they prove - if Slovenia would like to update the fifth and tenth corridor today, which is of common importance for our common future, we should devote €8 billion to this. Not to get lost in numbers, one Slovenian budget, one year of Slovenian budget and very possibly a little more. Of course we're aware, and we don't need to hear the hot speeches if you're careful what happens. Of course we do. But I wonder where they were when the same problems existed, illegal conduct, illegal conduct. This government didn't invent agencies, it didn't invent the public finances we have, and we're going to try to fix it in time, and I think we're going to do that too. But we can't do it all at once, that's true. Yes, we will, as I have already stated on the Committee on Public Finance, be aware of this and the professional services of various ministries, including the Ministry of Finance, are seriously working on some systemic solution to this issue: issues of Slovenian Railways. We know this isn't easy. And we also expect that, after discussion, when this National Assembly adopts the Law on Public-Private Partnership, we will also be able to make progress in this area and propose to this National Assembly long-term systemic solutions, which, as long as they require systemic changes - yes, we will report, not only to the Slovenian public, to this National Assembly and together with you, we will look for long-term solutions. Among other things, because this is what law requires, but not just common sense. Now there's something else about foreign investment. Well, you don't care about promoting foreign investment. Yes, indeed, this Government only believes that it is much more important to create the right atmosphere, the legal environment, which will also guarantee the right of small shareholders in Slovenia to create such an atmosphere and also clear legislation as regards taxes. We are convinced that this is a better way than providing a variety of support, which are to a certain extent normal. Personally, I am very pleased that I will not listen to another speech on this matter, that Revoz has decided to stay with the support of Slovenian taxpayers who were not petty matters, and that is right. I think it's very important. You know why? Among other things, because the added value in our economy is going to increase from 17% to 17%, as I was told by the directors of this institution, Slovenia's added value has so far been 17%, and it is estimated that in some 30% will go as well. This is an important thing for the Slovenian economy. And I think that the essential decision is right, but even though we had to give the Slovenian taxpayers some way to do it, I think that's a positive one. It is true, however, that if we want such development and the participation of foreign investment in the long term, we must create the best possible environment, clear rules of the game and implement them consistently. And this is more important than certain items in the budget. Just a comment, and this brings me back to what I mentioned at the outset, job conservation. If we have to start subsidising investments, because if we don't, we won't keep jobs. Dear Sir, I would only ask you to take note of yesterday's data from the Slovenian Statistical Office, the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, that employment increased by 0.5% in one month, month of August. There's only something positive going on in this country. I hope, no matter what you hear, you'll be able to appreciate that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u35	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Squeakle has responded to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u36	I will take very short notice of the most important matters where the Minister has informed the Slovenian public. About the railroads first. What you have proposed and passed is a non-systemic solution, because the agency does not have real resources, so that it can borrow 100 billion tolars, which you have allowed it. Second of all, about health care. The Management Committee of the Health Insurance Authority informs Members and Members that the financing of trainee doctors has been a European practice, which has been in line with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance, and will result in the adoption of Zipra and not with the amendment proposed, jeopardising the material situation of compulsory health insurance and thereby the possibility of exercising the rights of insured persons and access to health services. 2.7 billion is very much money for additional healthcare programmes, which means that 10,000 Slovenian patients in 2007, 2008 will not have the resources to obtain health services for which they are insured because the Minister of Finance, together with the Ministry of Health, demanded that this be a new task of health insurance. And of course around the deficit and finally about foreign investments. 1.7 deficits need to be compared with other deficits under the same conditions, but in 2006, when Mr Minister is satisfied with the deficit of 1.7, we have 500m euros in more corporate taxation, we have 160 million euros in more excise taxes in 2007 and, of course, we have half a percent of the GDP of the product in the European Union. And if you compare this with each other, then of course this deficit in 2006, 2007 and 2008 would be offset by a much higher taxation of the economy, given that we will draw more than the population with excise and VAT, but no, we still have a hole. To say that you have a lower deficit when you haven't given money to doctors, to school lunches, to finance railway infrastructure, of course, is not appropriate. It's quite the end of foreign investment. Mr Minister said that foreign investments would be encouraged to protect small shareholders. They've been ruling for 3 years, and they haven't drafted the Small Shareholder Protection Act yet. To say that a better tax environment means more foreign investments, taxes are 100% higher in Slovenia than in the last year of the previous government's mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u37	Thank you very much. There was an interest in the debate, so I'm opening a third round application. Mr. Pece, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u38	Your Honors are here! Frankly, outside the political party or outside the opposition, I must admit that I am very disappointed with Mr Bayuk's speech, which, in my opinion, he did not understand the political parties' policy or the politics of Slovenian parliamentary democracy. I do not believe that anyone in this National Assembly behaves so irresponsiblely that Minister Bajuk or, last but not least, the public finances within our country are being attacked by assault. I believe that we are all pursuing the same goal together, that our citizens and, of course, our citizens should do the best they can. I know, not only do I believe that, of course, the power of the Government is inappropriately greater than the power of opposition parties or Members and Members. From this title, the perception of fear of raising VAT as something evil, which Minister Bajuk claims, is, of course, totally unacceptable. Mr Bajuk has not convinced us that there will be no VAT rise in the next financial year, that is, in 2008. And my purpose and purpose for Members and Members of the Slovenian National Party is only to get a firm assurance that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will not raise value added tax because we estimate that Slovenian citizens and citizens are already too taxed today. And if the forecasts signed by Mr Bajuk under the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, in which he clearly stated that VAT would rise, then it can be seen that we are standing on completely different shores. I believe that it is in the interests of all of us, all of us, that taxes should not be lifted. And Mr Bayuk - I am very sorry that he is not among us right now - I should understand the content of the debate as something positive and well-targeted. And the expression of fear or, in other words, the perception of criticism on the draft budget and on the proposal of fiscal policy in the coming years reflects the immatureness of Slovenian Finance Minister Dr. Andrej Bajuk. Thus, it is well-intentioned by the opposition to note that it must not happen to impose new tax burdens on Slovenians and Slovenians in the coming years. But this perception, I must admit, has disappointed me personally. All together, I hope, as I hope that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is striving not to increase the value added tax. This will be bad, it will be bad for investments, it will be bad for Slovenian people, whether in physical or legal form and therefore for economic growth. So let us keep this fear in mind, for in fact, when it comes to it, it will be too late. Then all we can say is, in history, we once had a chance to prevent something like this from happening. And my advice to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - and Mr Bajuk was an opposition Member - should therefore know that at the end of the stage we are all pursuing the same goal together, that is, as little as possible the burden of Slovenian taxpayers and taxpayers. Therefore, if you get this title to ensure that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia deletes the hardline sentence - I will read it again - "by raising the VAT rate from 8.5 to 9 and raising the standard rate from 20 to 21", that is to say, nothing else. Otherwise, you are in the National Party, and I believe that in all other political parties, we want constant public finances, solid public finances, public finances that will reflect the future of our citizens and citizens. But not the future she will burden with new and higher taxes. And allow me to conclude, just a sentence, Mr. Bajuk ended by saying, "Something positive is going on." Yes, I'm sorry, something positive is happening, but if Minister Bayuk has eight billion euros. Would it not be a shame that nothing positive would happen from eight billion euros? I mean, it's something self-evident, but we're trying to make this money, which includes budget revenues, not least budget expenditure, as positive as possible, not just something. We follow this in the debates, in the form of amendments and not least in the context of public finances, as we see them. But the common concern is that our citizens and citizens will do their best. Therefore, do not consider criticism or warning of the facts that you have written in your public financial act to be malicious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u39	Thank you. The word is Homan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye to all of you. From Mr. Bayuk's discussion, there was some honesty. And I think we all felt it in this room and also the viewers in front of the TV. It has been shown how the Government has done well to go to the field, among the people across the regions, that it has actually come to know the problems and problems, and I think these problems and problems are covered in the 2008 budget. At least those priorities that the government had. I think they're covered, and I think the budget is good, distributed among all. Of course we can't all be satisfied and we'll never be. But we've captured every region, everyone's got something. However, I would warn not one, I would say, maybe even the government or at least give one direction to think that we are chairing the European Union in 2008. The former governments, I was alone when Clinton and the Pope visited, all began to happen at the last moment. All the roads from the airport to Brda began to asphalt, all the road lines, the markings to draw - all the last moment. And here I would ask the Secretary of the Ministry of Transport to take the time to arrange these roads from the airport to Brdo and then back down to Kranj, because here we will have a ID card for all Members and the whole Government. People will come to the presidency six months earlier. They will be here six months after the presidency. Let's take a look at these roads, this neighborhood, whether it's arranged or not, and find the money in the budget and start working in time, not waiting for the last moments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! What I'm listening to yesterday and today, as well as the current performance by the finance minister, seems to be really brilliant and almost everything has been solved in two years, let's say in two years on 12 bases. What will actually be left of this government in Slovenian history will, of course, show only time. I hope not only two scattered molotoki at the front of the building, where political parties or unresolved Roma issues are home. I think the government has received a very well-ordered and solid legacy. The Republic of Slovenia became a member of the European Union at the time of the previous Government, became a member of the NATO Union and was ready for the early takeover of the euro, which will take place from 1.1.2007. If this isn't a good legacy, then I don't know what it was. It may be a problem with the sticker, but you solved it very quickly, if the problem was just the car sticker was the previous government, because you preached so much at the beginning of your term, then it really wasn't a big mistake. But there is something else I would like to say not only about what Mr Minister said but also about what others have said that you have respected your colleagues and colleagues before. I would like to say that the Social Democrats have always supported major energy, motorway and rail projects, infrastructure projects in this country, regardless of whether we were in the government or in the opposition. I know so much, because I've been monitoring this for 10 years now, and I've been involved in some decisions. I would also like to touch on some very important issue of my own, this is state roads. You've talked about this a lot before. Indeed, in our country we still do not have a national programme to modernise the state road network. The current Minister, Mr Bozič, has been promising this for two years, as well as previous ministers have promised, both Mr Preseknik and Mr Pavliha, who was only Minister for a few months, have prepared some drafts, but we have not seen this national programme of the state road network in the National Assembly. I therefore have little doubt about the resolution of national development projects, as well as the budgets for the next two years, as well as the plans of development programmes, on the basis of what kind of professional basis these documents have been prepared, when the coalition Members, by the way, can change some of the already-run motorway or road projects. That's what I'm trying to say. The resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023 initially included the modernisation of the entire state highway network of €2.5 billion. In October, this resolution, which was adopted by the Government, was dented for a further billion euros. Now this project, which takes only three priority development pillars instead of the entire network, is called the third development axis of Koroška-Bela Krajina, the third development axis of Škofljica-Kočevje and Petrinja and the fourth development axis of Robič-Cerkno-Škofja Loka-Jeprca. So, from the first project, €2.5 billion to €1.4 billion. Moreover, the fourth development axis is covered in this project with only one part, without the so-called Idrian leg. Although the fourth development axis in the spatial development strategy of Slovenia was written and drawn as a whole, both with the Polish and Idrian legs, this fourth development axis was also fully recorded in the Resolution on Transport Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, which we adopted this year, and for my incomprehensible reasons, almost 80 km of road section from Želenen through Idrija to Logatec and further towards Ljubljana actually fell. It has also fallen out of the investment priorities of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2007-2013, which will be able to run for European funds. As it is said, the comprehensive fourth development axis has also fallen out of the Resolution of National Development Projects for the period 2007-2023 and is not found in the Development Programme Plan, which is an integral part of these two budgets. We will find only the Polish part of this fourth development axis, while the so-called Celtics from 2010 onwards are found in no development document of this country or word. There is neither transport in Lower Idrija nor ambitious projects in Zale, nor transportation in Godovic, nor modernisation of Godovic-Kalce, nor better access to the highway. Just a few wall repairs on the section from Lower Idria to Želen. It is no wonder, therefore, that some of our large corporations are already moving part of their production into Logatec along the railway and motorway. In our corporations, they export more than 200 million euros a year to demanding markets around the world. Let me say that the Collector, who is the only supplier in the world for some of the Mercedes components, has to pay for a minute's delay in delivering the goods EUR 25,000. 25 000 euros in fines, and every day from December to March we hear that the Keltika road from Godovic to Idrija is untransportable for tractors and freight vehicles. You can listen to this on the radio every day. There are many other sections, but most of the time it's just this part. Therefore, I think it would make sense that this resolution on national development projects should also be supplemented by this and that budget planners in the future do not overlook this important transport link, there is a comprehensive solution to the link between Soča and Poljanska valleys and Idrija valleys with the motorway cross and central Slovenia. In this regard, I have also tabled several amendments and perhaps several words below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All present from the Government, fellow Member and Members. I could now, in the same style as my speaker finished, continue and describe the situation from Slovenian Bistrica through Ptuj to Ormož and tell what we are losing because there is no road, then as my colleague Bevk could describe the situation there, we can all say it nicely [[...]] There's nothing else I'd like to say today that we wouldn't have heard. Yesterday we listened to this same story for 14 hours, I wonder where the Minister is so eager to answer all these, I would call it, provocations. He used to answer for half an hour. One of the famous Slovenians said if I had to listen to this, I'd lose my mind. If this budget were indeed such a disaster and all that said to my colleagues, and so on, then the opposition would be sitting here - look at them, they are not! Mr. Robb didn't even put a card in there, and he's the leader of the biggest opposition party! I have not yet seen Parliament in the European Union discussing the budget, and the opposition, which has so much to say, would not even be present at the meeting. I told you yesterday it wasn't serious. And that this budget is good, this group absence shows. It's a good budget and they don't have anything else to say about hot lunches and, I don't know, there's not enough for secondarys, for doctors, that there's not enough development resources, that there's not enough for roads. I agree. Of course, the blanket is as long as it is, and this is how we can cover ourselves; this is what every farmer understands. And I won't take any more of your time, but this debate, the way we take it here, doesn't lead anywhere. And it's a shame that we're listening to the same time, and I don't know what time it was yesterday, and I don't know how many hours today. I don't know, I guess at this point it could be more succinct to say this thing and what would be wiser to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr Bevk, I didn't hear your name, but if you understand the need for a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. But who is defending you, Mr. Sok, from not telling you what's bothering you in your area, because that's why we're here to say it! I also said that because the Minister for Transport, Mr Bozič, said that the Idrijaks would have to accept this in order to make the Church more open. Of course, we are pleased that this is the case and that there will be a modern connection between the Soča and Gorenjska. But we're not going to accept that you stuck Idria's window into the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting to all present in the hall! In these two days and at the late night session, we heard mainly two types of debates - one species went to paint uranium on the wall, about how everything would go down under this budget, although public financial indicators show better results, namely, these data were reported to Europe under the ESA-95 system, not by some pyruettes and exhibits of some financial virtuososo. So, the data shows good. The other thing was to talk about some school lunches, the children's ombudsman, and at the same time all those same MPs jumped up when their amendment on their crossing on some of their local roads was not adopted. And yet, also budgeting - technological progress will allow for actual tolling on transported kilometres. Besides, I'd like to ask my opposition colleagues why there's a toll station on Torov, why isn't he in front of Vodice? Wasn't some distinguished LDS representative in front of the toll station wrapped up and driven home on an unpaid toll? Now there's something else about development programs. I'd really like to talk about the fourth development axis. Indeed, the signatories to the Žirovska Declaration know that we agreed at that time that this is a broader and longer-term project. And this Žirov statement says, among other things, that the fourth development axis will follow the steps, as will the quality of the literature. The bishop's carousel is a fact, the mountain range is a fact. My colleague Bevk, today look in Finance, the Ministry of Environment and Space has the required environmental assessment for the transition from Hotavelj to Cerkne. So, the most critical point of the fourth axis, everything else are details; one of them is definitely this Idrian leg, and certainly this point has an advantage over all those roads in Idrija. That is why I think that the budget is on track to ensure some progress and development, especially in those places that have not been forgotten and neglected for 12 years by the people there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Bevk, weren't you appointed? The Idrian leg is not Bevk. Mr Bevk, I'd like you to sign up for the debate then. You'll have plenty of time. Here you go, like a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u50	Thank you very much. There is now another in Parliament, which sends me from Idrija to Ljubljana along the Polish road. The first was Mr. Minister, who said that this was the solution for Idria in wintertime. Minister Bozič, that I will ride from Idrija in winter to work through Cerkna, Kladja, Škofja Loko to Ljubljana. And now you're Mr. Ziherl! O holy forgiveness! A little more geography, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u51	There's no replica to the replica. Mr. Steba has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I'll be very quick to leave my colleague with something else. Importantly in the Minister of Finance's opposition to me, it was my intention to mobilise private funds for important infrastructure systems - we know that these are transport, energy and environmental - and, of course, to save some investment funds, which are few in the budget for more dynamic and competitive development. Now we're talking about these traffic issues. I think that with the tolling system, charging the use of state roads and environmental taxes, it is very nice to finance such construction of state roads and motorways. But I'm glad about the idea that, instead of doing the same as the highways, we build them in a concessional manner. The country does not have €8 billion and €8 billion to either owe or otherwise resolve matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, the opposition, warned us, I don't know why we're not here. We are also the opposition, he talked about opposition - thank you so much for calling me, I'm not nervous. We were with you yesterday or today up to half two, no matter what happened, we are here now, so Mr Sok is wrong in this part. However, if I teach him how the opposition participates in the budget across Europe, I would teach him that, everywhere in Europe, the coalition also adopts the budget, and that the coalition should therefore ensure that it accepts it, and we, understandably, raise some questions and concerns in this regard. Mr. Minister, to be honest, it is a pleasure to hear your views, your reasons, your explanations. I don't know if I'm wrong, but I hear there's some of this rhetoric left behind from your youth when you were a little amateur about acting, if my information isn't wrong, which I consider to be a good thing, but this rhetoric also has some weakness. Because, say, I accept that it's nice to say: someone leans on data and real scores, another picture black. Yes, but I think it's possible to say that: someone relies on real data, ratings, another image - everything is pink. Now, based on one fact or another, today, especially after the results, it is necessary to determine what was closer to the truth and what was not. I'll tell myself some open questions from our vision. Look, we have some concerns about whether it is really real and right, as we have decided to provide revenue in the 2008 budget. I will not say anything new, but I will repeat what we have said many times: it is excellent that this government has gone with the help, as you say, of the opposition to reduce taxes on wages. We, as the opposition party, proposed even faster, you said, "No way." Okay. We accepted and supported it to the extent possible. We have been different in our opinions on how the government has made its payments, and we have just said that we are assessing that the effects that the smaller group has committed to more than many others will not have the necessary effects in the economy. That's our grade. We insist on them for now. However, they have implications for revenue in the budget. We warn about the use of European funds all the time. It is not ideal, we are afraid that it will not be better and we are simply pointing out this; not with the desire that it would not be better, but with the desire that together, but above all, the government will organise itself so that it is also more realistic, because if we do not, but they are large, they will benefit more, the deficit will be extremely large and we do not know where to replace it. That is why our assessment is that the government, you say realistically, we say perhaps too optimistic, builds more or less on real GDP growth, which will provide so much more then the necessary resources and which will be able to deliver the goals and desires that we have in the budget. If that's all true, that's fine. If it isn't true, we fear something else that exactly those programmes that are important to the content of our policy will be overturned. Why are we afraid? Not because the government is evil, but because it does. Because we have not signals from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Policy, but such proposals because such decisions are taken in the National Assembly. Before the last session, we adopted the Transfers Act, which took the most vulnerable two billion for the next one, I rounded up about 100 million less, but the order is 2 billion for the next year, for later years it will only increase to 6 billion. And there are also cases that can be listed. Therefore, we fear that it will ultimately remain: either a value added tax with negative consequences or a reduction of rights in active employment programmes, in promoting economic growth, in promoting foreign investment and in promoting housing, which we consider to be more important than the prohibition of abortion or the payment of abortion, which is once again the government's policy. Here, in some fundamental values, we have different views and we want to say them in this direction. And finally, Mr Homan, I agree, this was followed yesterday, a lot of resources were allocated to everything, our assessment is only that the criterion was wrong. The criterion was who is from which party, but not what is really a priority for Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go, Mr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. I hope it was also clear that I spoke mainly on the basis of the data already verified, which were assessments, but I said they were evaluations. I know that there are different views as regards the 2008 draft budget on the basis of revenue. And I'm not surprised that there are doubts if that's the case. If I were 100% ready today, I would certainly suggest otherwise, there is a possibility, but I think it has also been made clear that in this process in which we are now, as we are applying and trying to implement all the measures concerning the reform programme adopted by the Government, there is actually a real situation, that things are changing and that they are changing in such a way that this can enable us to do so. But all I want to do is point that out. 38 billion dollars of possible deficit in 2008, if you don't raise VAT. We also have the opportunity offered by the Public Finance Act, as my predecessors did in 2004 to use the brakes, and the Government has proposed this, and the Government has accepted that in recent months - immediately, in the days following the elections, it has stopped certain expenditure. And it was a very thorough review, which actually allowed Slovenia to be as good in 2004 as it would have been in terms of final results, or better than it would have been if things were going as well as they would have been. It is a fact and I would only like to stress this: this budget has been prepared on the basis of conservative assumptions. Estimates of Umar's spring report have already proved to be slightly lower than realistic. And all of this is well-known, and all of this will also prove to be true, but I think that this government and this national assembly, when we are doing the 2008 budget rebalancing, can find such a solution that VAT will not have to be raised. As far as the impact of income is concerned, I know that we have discussed this widely and widely in the National Assembly that there are completely different views as regards the proposal for income. However, I only insist that, from the point of view of long-term prosperity in Slovenia, it is crucial that we reduce the progress made in our tax system. This progression was a result of two things: progressiveity in the income scale and progressiveness in the very tax on paid wages, which is also very high. That's why we talked, not just the Government, all the experts have warned about some Slovenian refugees, because the marginal rate was 70% - if you also take note of other contributions that those who have income must also pay. That this is unsustainable, everyone agrees. I don't know any experts in Slovenia to actually defend what we had. And everyone warned that if we want long-term things to ensure that we need to reduce this progression. The government said that when it proposed reform measures, remember the single tax rate. It seems that we have all forgotten this, I have insisted, but I think that it was the right and also a consistent professional view that this is, above all, the issue of data and analysis and this analysis and this data have shown that the proposal we have formulated has been the best for our economic growth. European funds. We share your concern. Surely we have not achieved those goals that we have set ourselves because the complexity, use or use of European funds is extremely difficult and goes in some way against the customs and functioning of bureaucracy, that requires very well-prepared projects, that requires some consistent compliance with all the rules of the game and that this is difficult to achieve in our public apparatus. Have we achieved what we anticipated? No, no, no. Is it sinful to plan like this? And that's not true. I think we have a duty to plan this. Yes, but when, if not in the first year, will we begin to draw on the European funds provided by membership in the European Union? Of course, this is a great challenge and a great risk! We agree with this, but this country will have to be a part of it and this public administration, irrespective of the Government, will have to face this challenge. Not to praise Slovenia over measure now, but the fact is, among all the new members of the European Union, Slovenia is among the best in terms of drawing; but far enough as it should be. And the Government is aware of this and we have had special meetings with the ministers responsible in this area since the beginning of the year, sometime in February, at each meeting of the Government. We have achieved many things, many things yet to be achieved. And here is a certain risk, and we are aware of it, and we thank you for your well-meaning warning as well. I think it is right that we all take note that this is not an easy task and that we will try to put this challenge into practice in the best way possible. I wonder what we'd hear today if the government didn't plan to draw. Can you imagine the zealous speeches you would hear: yes, you have the means and you are not planning to use! But now we hear the critics: yes, look at them, they plan spending. Yes, we are planning to spend more than has been so far, which will require a lot of effort by the entire public administration. We're aware of that. We hope to be part of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u57	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u58	Mr Minister, you did not quite understand that we are seeing you planning the use of European funds. We would understand if we understood the point of fearing that we are not sufficiently qualified for the necessary consumption or even more. And this is also the responsibility of this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Hello, my dear. I must say that I am pleased that Comrade Squeakle has returned because, given such a dark-sighted debate on the 2008 budget, I would like to say the following. I have a feeling that Comrade Squeakle has assigned himself as one of the most important tasks in this mandate to scare us, us here in Parliament, the viewers and the viewers [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u61	One moment, Mr. Mikolitch. Allow me to warn Mr. Squeak to go down the hall if he wants to, not the hall. Please, Mr. Squeakle, take your place. Go on, Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u62	viewers and viewers who follow us through the media and so on. [[...]] His story reminds me of children’s years of playing with children, and he passed by some strange uncle who frightened us either with a strange appearance or with some strange performance. Otherwise, we all know the story of Kekc or who the children were most afraid of in this story. Look, there's been a lot of talk from these dark-eyed debates by the honourable Member. Minister Drobnic is working on order in the field of social transfers, working order. On the other hand, my colleague, Squeakle, is scaring, you know, I can't accept the debate or some statement as to why the financial resources on this segment are falling. I don't know why we ask or wonder. In view of the fact that Minister Petty Officer is making an order on the basis of the legislation already adopted and those still to be adopted in this area. This also means a reduction of funds or funds for those eligible for these funds. If you are making an order, it means a decrease; perhaps a decrease or a reduction in funds or savings on this segment. Once again, the resources should be given to those who are entitled to them. And that's what Minister Petty Officer does. Another issue in this area is the one mentioned earlier by the Minister of Finance, the number of people in employment increased by 0.5% in September 2006 and amounts to 829 thousand 539, saying that so many are working. These are data from Umar for the month or Surs for the month of September. Thus, I will not discuss what has also been said that unemployment is falling, one of the opposition Members of the European Union objecting yesterday that this can be shown differently. But the fact is, there's been an increase in the number of employees. And this is again one of the reasons why the government or the Ministry of Labour is properly planning. And if it decreases in this area in three years, it will reduce financial resources by 30 billion or save money, that is only commendable. With regard to value added tax. I think that for several months, not only in financial laws, if I may say so now, we are also discussing value added tax for 2008. And again, someone can't and won't understand in any way that only in 2008 there is a great opportunity - and I am firmly convinced - that this segment will run into the state budget, that there will be greater financial resources, not at the expense of increasing the tax from 9 to 9.5 and 8.5 to 9 and 20 to 21. Not at the expense of this, but at the expense of good development or good economy, both in one part of economic activities and in the other part of service activities. Someone does not want to understand why there were so much more financial resources from the corporate income tax. No, it explains that we have burdened the economy with a hundred percent tax burden on the economy. It is said that everyone will pay a hundred percent more taxes in 2006 as well as in 2007 or 2008. Again mixing relative or absolute numbers - at least that's how I understand. If the economy or economic growth is so good, it is logical that more tax money will also flow into the state treasury. Also, there is probably more order in this work, which was explained to you by Comrade Veršnik for the last time, or by looking at this area in the past years, when even that tax money that should have flowed into the state budget was probably gone. That's what my colleague Veršnik was talking about last time. If I wasn't too long, I'd say that. I don't think that Comrade Squeakl has a big problem, which I, to my pleasure or satisfaction, and we probably don't have - that of all these mischievous predictions he's been explaining for two years, none has yet come true. And I am sure that, even with regard to the 2008 budget, his forecasts will not come true. That is why I will also support the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, do you have a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u64	I would be very happy if Members of the ruling coalition were less involved with one of the opposition's members and more with the content of the numbers that stand here. Mr Mikolič, relatively or absolutely, €500 million in 2004 and €1.070 million in 2008, these are differences in the tax burden on the Slovenian economy. Not because the economy would go better, so they don't pay 100% more taxes! No, but because you stopped, definitively, with the decisions last month, the relief of investing in equipment! Because you've cut off first-time job benefits! Because you've abolished the benefits for hard-working people, disabled people, and because you've abolished the benefits of hiring doctors of science. These are the facts. And to say that this is a real budget, which, of course, is such an increased taxation of the economy spending on the expenditure side, is simply not appropriate. I'll just give you a sample connected to hard-working people. So far, it has been a strategy of the governments of the Republic of Slovenia that, by tax relief, you have a difficult employee, subsidising his employment. A few days ago, there was a television broadcast about the Ombudsman - a film in Austria - where it was about whether a retarded person with a subsidy from Lower Styria would remain employed by a local butcher or not. And she was employed by a local butcher for tax relief. And that was politics in the Republic of Slovenia. Now this tax relief has been abolished. Therefore, according to the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the number of older persons without adequate qualifications is now increasing, i.e. difficult to employ, and those who receive two years' monetary compensation. He says that it is not about increasing the number of unemployed, but we need more money because the structure of the unemployed is changing because there is an even greater increase in the number of people who are difficult to employ at the Employment Institute after the abolition of tax relief. This is a wrong policy, and that is why we are reminding this, so we argue that this is not right. A Government That Praises I Will End [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u65	Mr. Squeakle, time for the replica is up. You will be able to sign up [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u66	The government that boasts about reducing the transfer of individuals is not a rational government.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u68	Thank you. I have 15 seconds at my disposal, so I can only express my joy over the sense of humor that we had so much time available yesterday that we voted, so that today I slept about two hours and now my muscles are shaking from tiredness, but now there is no time when we can talk to you and people to tell you what I would like to vote for the budget and also thank the Government. So I'll share this joy with you later when I take the opportunity to explain my voice to the maximum.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u69	Thank you. Since there is still an interest in the debate, I am opening the time to report to the debate in the fourth round. Mr. Squeakle, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u70	I regret that it will not be possible to argue with some Members of the ruling coalition, for which then the members of the other party in this ruling coalition said that we would still see what they were saying. It is clear that the Government has failed to bring a balanced budget to the National Assembly during a period of high economic growth, but has excluded a number of legal obligations from this budget and is saving on the most difficult stories. It saves on the employment of hard-working people. He saves on employment if you want, including doctors of science. It is not that science doctors are not employable, only because they are slightly more expensive for companies, they are employed by companies with the help of the state. They will no longer be employed by companies, so some of the science doctors will also go abroad. And the government, which at the time of high economic growth 2007 and 2008 does not promote economic development, has joined us, Mr Minister of the Economy - says the Government, which does not encourage foreign investment, which says, as the Minister of Finance said, that it will promote foreign investment, with only twice the tax rate and with so-called confidence-building of small shareholders, this Government simply does not know what it is doing. I will conclude with a question to the Minister for the Economy: How will the Government ensure the promotion of foreign direct investment, the development of science? How will the cooperation and activities of the technology agency be enhanced? How will you help businesses in difficulty if, as a government member of the government, together with the Minister of Finance, or because of the Minister of Finance, with the support of the President of the Government, you reject any amendments that allow this? This happened yesterday, this is also announced for today's vote. The government doesn't support a small economy. The government does not support foreign investments. The government does not support and does not help businesses in difficulty. The government is reducing the level of funds for technological development. Of course, the government says, as the minister will tell us, that some of this will be from European funds, but this money will be available effectively in 2009, 2010 when the Minister of Economy, Andrej Vizjak, will no longer be Minister of Economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Dear Member! Such talk must be intervened. First of all, I'm not a prophet to speak in 2010, or sooner or later. And if I'm given as responsible a task as I am now, then I'll take it. If you don't, someone else will. However, I stress that this Government has taken a significant step forward in providing businesses with a more environmentally friendly environment. This is not an empty straw, but these are concrete results. There has not been such economic growth in Slovenia as in the first half of this year. There have not been so many new companies in Slovenia, including small businesses, like this year. The government has taken a number of measures to promote a more environmentally friendly enterprise, namely, systemic measures that provide a more business-friendly environment, are the most important tasks of this government. Reducing administrative barriers, reducing tax burdens and reducing the rigidity of the labour market and much more is what I think is most important, and the Government has taken important measures here, of course. Unlike before, only the tax burdens of companies increased. Let me just remind you of what has been called the 2004 Meramore Tax Law, which has been a terrible, I would like to point out, a terrible burden for companies to put an end to investment reliefs, which was in 2004. And as a result, of course, this government works and fixes these things. It is true, however, that many of the bad measures of the past are very difficult to correct in a short period of time. This is the first thing I want to say. The second point concerns State intervention, which is true state aid in terms of promoting various measures and economic policies. There have been many and many amendments aimed at reducing or helping companies, foreign companies, when they come with greenfield investments in Slovenia, through grants. The government has adopted a programme to encourage foreign direct investment in last year and, in accordance with this programme, also lists funds and allocates them to reduce the entry costs of foreign investors in Slovenia. In 2006, a record number of appropriations were also earmarked for this purpose. Of course, from this title we have supported the record number of new projects in Slovenia and we promise that foreign investments will also contribute significantly to enhancing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Last but not least, by offering Slovenia as an attractive investment destination, this government has also taken note of a number of foreign markets around the world, all with one purpose: how to use Slovenia as an attractive destination for greenfield investments, last but not least a tourist destination, a logistics point along two international transport corridors. As a result, the Government has also adopted important investments, or important projects, in the resolution of national projects that consolidate this role, all with a view to ensuring the arrival of foreign and domestic capital in these investments. In short, both investment and money are essential, much more than in the previous government, and therefore there is no claim that the funds are therefore falling; no, the funds for these purposes are increasing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Horvath has the floor. [[Back-up advertising.]] You weren't appointed, Mr. Squeakle. You can apply again in round five. Mr. Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives and representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! When I examined the 2008 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, I found that in fact the Government, with its services and also external experts, has made a lot of efforts, and the result we have today on the table is that it is actually an important product in the development of the Slovenian economy. Last but not least, let me point out that this is a record small budget deficit, which is an information with which the Government and the ruling coalition can praise each other. The budget is a product based on an abundance of variables, also on the abundance of constants. And one of these constants that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already specified a few months ago, and Europe also gives it the right one, for example, is the euro rate. It was long ago set, 239.64, and so it remained and will remain. Of course, with regard to the budget, it is not easy, with what burdens or initial values, the author of the budget starts. We cannot and cannot forget when the government first faced the budget or, more precisely, the 2005 budget rebalancing started with a minus 70 billion. We can say that in a way it feels today. This is a hole that we simply need to fill with some other manoeuvres. When I talk about variables and baseline assumptions on the basis of which the budget is made, I understand and I believe that the Government has used the expert methodologies recognised in the world here and has also made the budget based on these methodologies. Last but not least, this budget contains the forecasts that will be made by the amended legislation, including the economic growth forecast, including the forecast of the effects of tax legislation, including the forecast of the European Union's economic growth, we are finally members of the European Union. And be a prophet and speak for a few hours about the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will raise VAT in 2008, which, as has already been said several times, the intimidation of the Slovenian public, to speak such prophetic and professionally unfounded predictions is simply misleading the Slovenian public, of course very much likes to criticize the budget, and in some ways it can be a hero and knock on the chest "I, this government will, respected citizens and citizens, choke you with taxes". Tax revenue, budgetary, from VAT is simply calculated by a percentage calculation that we have dealt with somewhere in the middle of the primary school. The product of the percentage base and percentage or in this case the VAT rate is constant, if we change either the rate or the base, the product may be the same or even larger at the same rate if the base is larger. The indicator and projections are such that this base is expected to actually be greater. Last but not least, we are burdening citizens and citizens with income, which means that this is how the professional public is expected to increase consumption, which means an increase in the budget revenue on VAT. There was a lot of talk about the excessive, catastrophic indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia for the construction of the Slovenian highway network. I am sure that today there is simply no other option than that chosen by the Republic of Slovenia for the construction of the Slovenian motorway cross. However, if we are talking about this, then we could actually move time a few years ago and ask ourselves, but perhaps it would be wiser that when we were somewhere at the beginning or in the middle of the construction of the Slovenian highway network to then choose another way, perhaps through concessions, another way of financing Slovenian highways. Today is simply another option, in my opinion, no, but this construction needs to be accelerated, of course it also means accelerating the provision of financial resources. The traffic is increasing tremendously, and I will try to show the picture in Pomurje, the freight transit traffic of the Long Village, which is from Ljubljana about 220 kilometers, has increased to the magic number 100,000 per month. Do you know what that means? This means around 2.3; 2.5 trucks per minute through the pomur villages. It's a terrible thing, but I'm not gonna talk about it anymore. I only hope that all those plans that are actually made on two decimals will be exactly about the construction of motorways, including financing, that they will actually come true and that what we promised these people who experience and survive grasses due to such traffic along this road, in particular G1-3 Lendava-Maribor, that we will actually connect the Pinkes or Slovenian-Hungarian border with Maribor by the end of 2008. Let me conclude with my opinion and support to the Slovenian Government as regards this budget. I am convinced that it is good that it is geared towards the development of Slovenian society, but I cannot understand that even in this high assembly some are discussing, Bayuk has 8 billion euros. I can also see this as not knowing how the budget is actually being made and how it is then being realised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u75	Thank you. Since there is still interest after the debate, I am opening a new application for a general debate. Mr. Janc, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u76	Thank you. Honourable President, Honourable Minister, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! I have already made myself known, and I would like to repeat myself, especially in the segment, as my colleague spoke before me, about the economy. However, I would like some things, which are also quite close to me, as a member of the Committee on the Economy's parent working body. And it's also obvious that this government doesn't know what it's doing with the economy, they don't hold and they're incorrect, I'll say. I have to strongly deny it because I closely monitor this thing as mayor, as a member of this committee. I must say that there has been a lot of work done in this area lately. I'm not just talking about praising the government. I have no intention of that. However, I can monitor not only the success of economic growth, the success of indicators, etc., but the Government has done a great deal in these two years to simplify procedures, but it is very important how we can bring together some procedures to be as business-friendly as possible, to start new businesses and similar things. I think that a big step has been taken here, and this is also very encouraging by the entrepreneurial circle of people, that the Government has come to know this and that it wants this goal, where they have repeatedly warned of such or other bureaucratic obstacles, excessive procedures, unfriendly, stalling and so on. There has certainly been a big step taken here, and I think this is certainly a tribute to this government, but this goal is following the needs of our entrepreneurs. Companies have always been in trouble and always will be. They are here, too, and the funds are shared between certain companies that are in trouble, but it is true that it is much more prudent, which is also right - when you give help to someone, who no longer needs help, or who will save the company, save jobs, save the market, and so on. And this caution is greater, because experience in the past unfortunately shows that we have given a lot of money to various Slovenian companies, but the effects have not been any and the tax money has been lost through such or other channels. As regards support for new enterprises, investments and technological development programmes. The Maribor Enterprise Fund, which, according to my assessment, has been successfully revived and which receives more resources each year for the development of technology and investment, I think that one of the very encouraging generators is how Slovenian prospective companies with additional resources can become successful through calls. These companies are more every year and, thank God, the government is also making more money for this every year; of course, still too little, it would be good even more, but this goal has been achieved. And I think that's very encouraging. I am speaking on behalf of a number of entrepreneurs who have already participated in these calls, including very successful companies. And this goal is, however, pursued and those small and medium-sized enterprises that may not have had so many options so far have more and more, because this is the end of our common future, and this is also the future economic development, as these successful companies are growing. And I think this should be commended with the desire that this fund be even bigger in the coming years, so that companies can benefit from these funds for their technological investments, equipment and so on. In short, it is tax legislation, which we have talked a lot about with the aim of unloading the Slovenian entrepreneur, making it possible for the economy to have more tax-friendly legislation, work, we know, profit and so on. In short, these are specific things, I do not mean to say this, but these are facts that this Parliament has also adopted. And finally, tax legislation, the 2007 and 2008 budget, these are the main things, these are the alpha and omega of every government, and also the end of the Parliament that is discussing this today. And many other calls by individual departments, departments, such or other, where entrepreneurs participate and receive such and different funds, whether for investment in knowledge, in such and other programmes, are positive. Of course, there is always a desire for more in this area, but if we look at items and indices in the past and today, these are strongly reinforced in order for the Slovenian economy to feel that the government is with it, that it wants to help it to be friendly to this environment. And I think that the Government is also following this objective in this 2008 budget. And it is also very important that we try to become more rational, economical and friendly, and above all make this environment as friendly as possible for where every story begins, and this is an economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. 2008 is certainly one of the most important years, as the so-called Schengen programme will also be introduced, and I think that this budget should reflect this fact more closely, should be more present in the budget and should, in fact, be more aware of the fact that it is becoming a true Slovenia of the EU's external borders. If we just fly through items that we find in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy quickly, they are obviously aware of this, but they are amounts, I think the Slovenian border is extremely modest. The fact is that this regime requires additional attention, additional investment, and in particular to allow for the preservation of life at the border, which, of course, is also by far the most secure and far the most supervised. If there is no borderline life, then it will be impossible to provide security within or at the external border of the EU. It seems to me that this is one of the areas that is under-accounted for in the 2008 budget. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in the European financial perspective 2007-2013, it is necessary to take a very serious approach and if the Ministry of the Environment plans to invest in municipal infrastructure, and this will not be followed by, say, the Ministry of Transport, then you will be faced with the fact that if we want to draw on cohesion funds, of course we will be able to draw on them if the state part of the infrastructure, especially road infrastructure, is able to do so. I don't know if, or at least after looking at the development programme, the ministries would be coordinated with each other, that where there will be a large investment in sewerage and reconstruction, such as a water network from cohesion funds, these are also some of the biggest projects set up by the Ministry of Environment for this period - and it will be the first year of 2008 - this should also be followed by the Ministry of Transport to harmonise mutual investment, because once the sewerage is built, it is also necessary to regulate road infrastructure or road body. And while we are on the road, of course, a motorway programme is being concluded in 2008. Already in this budget, it should reflect how we are going to implement an additional highway programme, especially on the fact that, in the 2007 budget, a lot of resources have been taken from Dars and Dars will be in a much more difficult situation than it would be if this did not happen during this period. This is also another uncontrolled intervention in this area in the 2007 and 2008 budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u80	First of all, I regret that Mr President otherwise interprets the right to a replica, because the reply or debate of the Minister referred to my question and there was no question from any other Members to which he answered. However, allow me, of course, to explain my question to the Minister for the Economy in the debate. First of all, I must say, Mr Minister, that I agree with you in criticism of the increase in the tax burden, even today I have spoken about this several times, and it is right to tell your Members that it is not right that in 2007 or 2008 a thousand million euros will be taxed on the profits of legal persons in relation to 500 million in 2004. However, as Minister of Economy, I do not understand why you allowed this tax legislation to be adopted by the Government in 2007 and 2008 to definitively abolish the aid for investments in equipment, in 2006 science remained 10% of the doctor's first employment, etc. You simply agreed, as Minister of Economy, that the taxation of the Slovenian economy is even higher than it was in 2008. And that we will not go into 2009, 2010 and the then elections, I ask you very specifically in just 5 weeks: "How could you agree, Mr. Minister, that in 2007 you will have less money for 9 million euros on competitiveness programmes, 30% less money to encourage the development of a small economy and in a year to begin in 5 weeks, for 40% less money to restructure businesses, how could you agree to this?" It is true that you received some promises in 2008 that this will increase in 2008, but in the year that starts in 5 weeks, you have 30% less money to promote competitiveness, 30% less money to develop a small economy, 40% less money to encourage and maintain production in firms that are in difficulty. I just don't get it, and I want answers. All the way to the end. I hope you have already obtained agreement through the Ministry of Finance to grant assistance to Slovenian company Iskraemec from the European Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u82	One more time. Tax incentives for investing in immovable equipment and tax reliefs for investing in equipment were abolished by the previous Government, not this one. This was a package of tax reform called the Maramore tax reform adopted by the previous government in the spring of 2004. I was sitting in the same seat as you are, and then I warned with the same words or similar words of Minister Marble, who was sitting here, that this would have bad effects. The mistake of the then LDS was very much in favour of this, and you were sitting in the government if I'm not mistaken. However, as regards the means to increase competitiveness. Resources to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy are increasing, do not decrease, increase and are slightly more targeted as the country's objectives are also changing. In fact, I believe that the key objective is to increase competitiveness through raising technological equipment for businesses, through investing in the flow of knowledge from the economy, from the developmental research institutions and higher education institutions to the economy, and that the economic policy objectives are no longer just creating new jobs, and unfortunately, short-term jobs. Slovenia is facing low competitiveness due to technological obsolescence and under-innovation, and all measures are targeted in this direction, so we have also introduced new tax reliefs, so-called tax reliefs for research and development, we have a series of measures and financial resources to this end, and here I see the key task of the Ministry of Economy and Slovenian Governments to increase competitiveness.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u83	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u84	Mr Minister said it was against increasing jobs for a certain period of time. But see, Mr Minister, the Minister for Labour in the report or the Government reports; more resources are needed to change the labour market in terms of greater flexibility. There is an increase in the number of employees on the labour market for a certain period of time, so we need more money and so on. And the Minister of Labour says it's okay, and you say it's wrong. And Mr Minister, the facts are unrelenting, encouraging the development of a small economy, assessing the implementation of 2006 - 31 million euros and a year later - 22 million euros, a 30% reduction. Are you also opposed to promoting a small economy? What will you aim for, a small economy, if you reduce its resources?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u85	Mr. Secretary, here's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u86	Just for a little while, that's all. In part, items are read; on the other hand, there are items that talk about the establishment of communally equipped land for businesses, this is a special, economic centre and it is also part of funds for small and medium-sized enterprises, not just reading one item.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u87	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Replica, please, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u88	I repeat to the Minister's debate. Mr Minister, I cannot find these numbers in the budget "encouraging the development of a small economy". If you find it, I would be very happy, but here there are only four items and a development support environment for the small economy you are slightly increasing, but you have significantly reduced the improvement of the support environment for entrepreneurship from 21 million to 2 million euros. And only in 2008 will you get some money from the European budget. So, what are you gonna do next year? Five weeks from now, and you have a third less money to promote the development of a small economy, and we have therefore proposed an amendment that would increase the volume of funds. As a Government, however, you rejected this amendment and the members of the ruling coalition rejected it entirely yesterday, in accordance with the Government's will, and we have a third less money for a small economy in 2007.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u89	I would like to point out that we have before us the 2008 budget, namely the general part, but 2008, 2007 we had yesterday. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u90	Dear Member! The Ministry of Economy's key role is to increase and support economic activity, in particular programmes to increase competitiveness. In 2008, competitiveness programmes increase by 31.58% compared to 2007. In 2007, there are 30.4 million euro; in 2008, there are 40.111 million euro. This is what the budget says, please, the funds are increasing, they're not shrinking.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u91	I'm opening an application for discussion. If you'd like to discuss it, please sign in. The last discusser came forward, Mr. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u92	Look, Mr. Secretary said a notorious lie. He said that the increase in resources in 2008 was between 30 and 35%. That's right. But first you have a minus 30% drop because in 2006 there is a realisation of EUR 38 million, and then, Mr. Minister, it decreases to EUR 29 million and then you go from 29 to 40. You have to tell the whole story to the Slovenian public. In the year that begins, in the year ahead, Mr Minister, in five weeks' time, you will have 30% less money to promote competitiveness. And to say that you will get 30% more money in 2008, Mr. Minister, without telling the Slovenian public the whole story, first they take it from you at the Ministry of Finance 30%, then they give you back 30%, the rate of growth is nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u93	Anybody else want to discuss this? Then I conclude the debate on the general part of the 2008 supplementary budget proposal. The general part of the supplementary draft budget will be decided today, in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly, within half an hour of the end of the 4th item of the agenda or at the latest 21.30 a.m. We are moving on to the consideration of the specific part of the 2008 supplementary budget proposal. First, there will be a debate on the whole special work and then on the amendments. First of all, I am opening a debate on the specific part of the completed 2008 budget proposal. I'm opening the application. Of course, within the time available. No applications, thank you. Since no one wants to discuss the proposal in its entirety, we are moving on to a debate on the amendments to the specific part of the 2008 supplementary draft budget. The debate will take place following the review of the amendments of 14.11.2006. We have 52 amendments. I'll open each user individually. First of all, is there any interest in the debate on the amendment of the Ombudsman? I'm opening the application. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. I am not going to lose as many words as I did yesterday because it is practically an identical amendment, with the 2008 budget amendment carrying a new sub-programme. This sub-programme is the Office of Child Rights Defender. It is therefore that instrument or actor to which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or coalition partners in the so-called coalition contract also committed. Last but not least, with the written initiative addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 2 October 2006, I actually wanted to encourage the Government to put the item in the budget itself and to provide funds for the operation of the Office of Child Defenders. Unfortunately, this did not happen, so of course I prepared and tabled an amendment. However, I received an answer yesterday and therefore I appeal, of course, to the Minister and everyone else present in this Parliament at this time, because there was no time yesterday to present the facts in response to my parliamentary initiative, which, of course, is in favour of supporting this amendment. "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is pleased to accept the fact that the Slovenian National Party's Group also supports the strengthened role of state authorities in terms of child protection and the protection of their rights, which is one of the objectives of this Government in the area of family policy. The establishment of a special guardian for children has already been envisaged in the Resolution on the Basics of Family Policy in the Republic of Slovenia, since the protection of the child and his rights has priority in the established family policy. The international community has incorporated into the development and adoption of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which has been in force in the Republic of Slovenia under the Succession Notification Act since 17 June 1992, the knowledge that children need a special code for the protection of their rights and special mechanisms for their protection. The International Administrative Framework for the Protection of the Rights of the Child is Article 4 of this Convention, which provides that the States Parties must take the necessary measures to implement or exercise the rights of the child. The Republic of Slovenia has also ratified the European Convention on the Exercise of the Rights of the Child, which strengthens the procedural situation of the child in official proceedings. Article 12 requires States Parties to set up bodies to propose changes to the promotion and consolidation of children's rights, to provide views on other legislative proposals concerning children's rights, to inform the media, the public, individuals and bodies concerned with the issue of children's rights and to provide children with relevant information. The establishment of guardians for children's rights in addition to the already mentioned European Convention also proposes a recommendation from the Council of Ministers of Europe on the participation of children in family and social life." I have read only part of the government response to my parliamentary initiative, which is also covered by amendment number 1. That is why I ask you, my fellow Members and my colleagues, and I also ask the Minister, in view of the new facts that have arisen yesterday and that, even when I have informed the Ministry, it has not been properly informed of all the facts, because yesterday I heard the reply that the funds should be provided for the implementation of the pilot project under the Ombudsman. That information doesn't hold. The means that we can provide under the amendment in the 2008 budget would be the first step towards not least the international convention or, if you want, what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has committed itself to, and not least what children in our society need and deserve, we get or that these things finally begin to be realized in practice. I request an explanation or reply from Minister Bajuk regarding the amendment itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u95	Thank you. Can I help you, Minister Dr. Bajuk? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Having already presented the Government's position yesterday, I would just like to explain that the actual data that we have taken on the amendments for 2007 and 2008 have been obtained through specific discussions, the Ministry of Finance's professional services with the Office of the Ombudsman's professional services. However, if there is such a possibility that this pilot programme is likely to be implemented in 2008 in a different way, we believe that this is a fitting and in line with the position taken by the Government in the response you have received, we withdraw our objection to this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u97	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since it's only one hand, I'm not opening the application. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Minister, I am truly grateful to you, and believe me, my honesty is true. This means that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the amendment and will also support coalition partners. At this point, I thank you for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u99	Thank you. Closing User Amendment 1214. We are moving to the user of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy. Anybody want to discuss the amendment? Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u100	In 2008, as I was before [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u101	Mr. Weber, I'm sorry I missed you. You're running out of time. Mr. Squeakle, you've raised your hand too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u102	We support this amendment, in particular the fact that, unlike what we are doing now, we should, however, ensure that regional development projects are prepared in 2007, 2008 are agreed on on local self-government. Local self-government, regions without regional programmes, resources are not sufficient and it is therefore appropriate to add €500,000 and reduce defence resources.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u103	Thank you. This concludes the debate on this amendment. We are moving to the user - the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where there are two amendments. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the discussion on the user of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We are moving to the user - the Ministry of Economy, where there are several amendments. I'm opening a debate. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u104	All amendments are substantively linked to the provision of sufficient resources, especially in 2007, 2008, when it is not yet possible to draw on European funds to the full. Let me remind you, the European funds, which are the main source of some growth, we will draw on everything from 2007 to 2016, 2017. However, the government has very much, as it is called, increased the amount of expected revenue under this heading; and the realisation of the three years we have been in the EU, in the middle of 2004, 2005 and 2006, shows that we have failed to draw on such a high level of resources. I therefore propose that real additional resources be put in place to promote technological development, foreign investment, increase competitiveness and also a mine closure programme. And what we don't understand, we don't understand the opposition of the government to these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u105	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss seven amendments under the Ministry of the Economy? Nobody. Then I conclude on these amendments. We are moving to the amendment under the user Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on this amendment. We are moving on to an amendment under the user of the Ministry of Transport. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u106	We would like to hear an assurance from the representatives of the Director or the Ministry of Finance that there will be no need to rebalance the budget in 2008 and 2007, because the Railway Agency does not have enough money to co-finance European projects. We propose an amendment that does, but the government rejects this amendment. If the Government rejects this amendment, then I ask you to publicly confirm here today that there will be no need to discuss again in this Chamber whether or not we will put enough money on rail transport. If we support the amendment, as you, of course, have done with some delay with the Ombudsman, I believe that we will avoid a number of problems, especially the unnecessary covert indebtedness of the Railway Agency. Please, if we can get an answer from the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u107	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? You again, Mr. Squeakle? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u108	I would only ask procedurally if you, as chairman, could provide at least this Chamber if it was not already possible on the committee for the Government to answer our question. This is a debate. This is not a vote and a decision on amendments when the government cannot speak. The government can still talk, or it's only got 29 minutes left, but it can talk, and it's here to tell us. If we don't understand, we have the Secretary of State that the Government is rejecting the amendment, as the Minister has said, but we will arrive at the National Assembly with a rebalancing. That's an unnecessary job. To put it mildly, we are torturing ourselves and the Slovenian public, now that the Government vehemently does not want additional money for the railway infrastructure with the amendment we are proposing, it does not want to build the second track of Koper-Divic, rejects the amendment, and then in a few months we will accept the rebalancies here again in some urgent procedures because the government has forgotten to start building the second track of Koper-Divač, even though we are proposing this to them members of the opposition with the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u109	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss this amendment? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude this debate and we are moving to the user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, here we have seven amendments, all in the sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. Someone wants to discuss these amendments. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u110	Procedurally, again, President. Please, if you call on the Government to respond to questions raised by Members and Members, otherwise we will hold a correspondence meeting of the National Assembly. We have the views of the Government, which are negative, we have the opinions of the Members, and you or the Government does not want to answer the questions. The questions are very simple; why do you reject the amendments mentioned above? Why are you rejecting the amendment for the fourth development axis, this is one of the amendments that are before us? Why are you rejecting the Celtics? Why are you rejecting the amendments for the third development axis? Why are you doing this? But why were you able to support 40 amendments last night, or at least at least a third developmental axis, but certainly not in the main, key corridors. Let the government answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u111	Thank you. Well, let me say that everyone here has the freedom of speech within the time available to him, and it is not my duty to ask for silence not to speak or to speak to the individual at his disposal. Anyone else wants to discuss amendments under the user of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude these amendments. And we are moving to the user of the Ministry of Environment and Space, where we have three subroutines and four amendments. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u112	The government of Mr Janez Janša has abolished 104 thousand Slovenians and Slovenes with housing relief. The proposed amendment, which would provide €15 million for housing promotion, rejects the amendment. Why?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u113	Here you go. Mr. Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u114	Thank you so much for asking. Mr President, the House of Honor. The proposed amendment allocates €15 million to the information system for recording rental relations and, among other things, subsidising young families for the first solution to the housing issue. In 2007, 500 million such subsidies are allocated and, according to all our calculations, this is a sufficient amount of funding for this aid segment or the availability of housing, while other measures relating to the promotion of housing, particularly in the area of supply, are not related to this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, would you like to discuss this further? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u116	I am pleased that the Government has only responded, but, Mr Secretary of State, what you have in mind is, if I am not mistaken, 200 euros per individual applicant, not a total of 2 million, but 15 million euros of major money is proposed for the rescue of young families. In the State budget, Mr Podobnik and when adopting tax legislation, together with the Minister of Finance, managed to abolish housing relief; 105 thousand people are now in a completely different position. Why do you think 2 million euros will save them and why you are against the amendment that proposes 15 million euros? 115 000 Slovenians and Slovenes have been in a different position of income since the government decided to abolish housing relief, and this is where Members of the ruling coalition voted.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u117	Thank you. Anybody else want some? Mr. Starman, please choose as much time as you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u118	Thank you very much. It's a different program. This programme talks about these rights, which go under the law, we agree that it is very mentioned, it is only on a narrow segment, while other programmes that provide housing with the recapitalisation of the Housing Fund are not included in this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u119	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss these amendments? Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u120	I want the government to explain to us what she's really going to do with the housing fund because it says so much that it's going to work out? Here it is specifically proposed, for thousands of young and young families, aid for subsidisation, aid that you have abolished, was said when housing relief was lifted, that other instruments would be no other instruments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u121	Thank you. Anybody else want some? Then I am adjourning the debate on these amendments and moving on to the user of the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, where we have one amendment. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on this amendment and move on to the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, where we have one amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, where we have 7 subprogrammes and a total of 9 amendments. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u122	Just one question to the Government: Why does he reject all these amendments along with his mother's working body? Why is it against strengthening the social state?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u123	I think the committee has submitted a report on the refusal. The government doesn't have much time to answer, I don't know, two seconds, you're no longer available, I'm sorry. Who wants to discuss it? Would you like some? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. The government rejects amendments because it considers it has sufficient resources for social transfers, for active employment policy and for the unemployed, given that it has adopted legislation enabling this [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u125	Time's up. Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, you have some more time, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u126	During its term of office, the Government reduced the volume of transfers for all these cases by 32 billion in gross domestic product. [[...]] This is no longer a social state.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u127	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss these amendments? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the Ministry of Health, where we have six amendments. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! With an amendment referring to the Ombudsman, our proposal intends to implement a coalition commitment that states that we will establish an institution of the Ombudsman in this mandate. It is true that in its rejection the government mentioned, quote, "the means to protect patients' rights are in the sub-programme" and so on. I must warn you that our amendment does not speak of any means for any programs, but rather for the Ombudsman's Institute, in accordance with the coalition contract. I'm sorry we don't understand each other here. Nor do I believe that we will succeed with this amendment, but the amendment has a clear commitment to achieve what has been agreed, without any major debate about how we will agree on anything else. It says 'the Ombudsman's Institute', but it talks about the means that we know what they're meant for, and of course we absolutely agree with that. That is how we still think it would be right for all of us to support this amendment, in particular all the coalition partners that co-signed the coalition agreement, otherwise it will be again one of the proofs that when we agreed and wrote something, it was not serious that we were taken into account at the time only to join the coalition, but that everything shows that, later on, our rights arising out of the co-signed agreement are no longer important and that most of our partners do not intend to realize them. I have no bad news because I have not been able to negotiate to withdraw this amendment, because the amendment is clear, it is a direct consequence of the agreement, the time will run out, in 2008 it is the last year, I think, these governments and this mandate, and if we do not do so then and have the appropriate items to do so, this will not be realized. The funds that the Government refers to would be wrong to collect there and give them for something else, because I have no doubt that they are there for what it says. A new budget item should be put in place for the Ombudsman as an institution. I would like to point out that this is a particularly sensitive area of the patient as one that is difficult to compare with all other citizens, who, as healthy citizens, are much easier and in a much simpler way trying to realize their rights, while the patient is often afraid to resent the health system. If he criticises him or complains against him, he needs an intermediary a little bit less than other citizens for the further exercise of human rights. That is how I think that our proposal is justified, based on an agreement in the coalition agreement, does not represent particularly large funds and is our shared responsibility. I therefore expect him to be supported, despite the fact that we have not been able to reach such an agreement so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u129	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss these amendments? Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u130	The Minister of Health said two years ago, on 29 November 2004, "We will also defend the establishment and functioning of the Institute of the Ombudsman." Now that position has changed and the amendment rejects. Yesterday, he said he would provide extra money for programs at the Health Insurance Institute, and if he did the same double-faced thing, he obviously wouldn't have any of those programs. Why are you doing this, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u131	Unfortunately, the Minister cannot answer you because the time has run out for all the answers requested. Anyone else want to discuss these amendments? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate on them. We are transferring to the user of the Ministry of Public Administration, where we have one amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are transferring to the user the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, where we have two sub-programmes and three amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the user of the Ministry of Education and Sport, where we have three subroutines and four amendments. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u132	Your Honors are here! Within the framework of the user, the Ministry of Education and Sport, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group, is making several amendments. Personally, however, I would like to speak in conjunction with the amendment which makes it possible to carry out the primary education process in Maribor, specifically in Tezna. In doing so, I inform you that this is an amendment with a minimum intervention in the budget structure, totalling less than €30,000. Personally, I believe, because the amendment was created on the basis of professional cooperation with representatives of the educational system in Maribor, as well as with the providers of the educational system at the school mentioned above, that the amendment is more than indispensable and ensures a smooth learning process in the future. The fact is that in the last few years, because of the lack of investment in this building, Martin Konšak primary school, the primary education process has been disrupted. And I believe that this is not in the interest of any of us, nor of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In short, I would like to point out that the amendment is in line with the strategy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on improving the quality of education in the Republic of Slovenia and that it belongs to this programme or that the proposed amendment belongs to one of the solutions that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia puts under its programme. From this place, I ask Members and Members of Parliament for their support, especially given that the possible adoption of this amendment would not undermine the structure of the budget, either on the expenditure side or on the revenue side or within the Ministry of Defence. Once again, it is a minimal intervention in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and I think that even the lowest item of the proposed amendment is the proposed amendment compared to yesterday's amendments and today's amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u133	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss these amendments? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the user of the Ministry of Culture, where we have three subroutines and each one amendment. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendments and on the specific part of the complementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 as a whole. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 4th item of the agenda, or at the latest at 9.30 a.m. We are moving on to the consideration of the development programme plan, of course, within the time available. Anybody want to talk? I am opening an application for a debate, within the time available to the parliamentary groups if they have not yet spent it. Those of you who wanted to sign up are already in the negative and unfortunately, please check your condition. [[...]] LDS has more. How's that? Did you sign up? I'm sorry, I'm just gonna get my hands up. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u134	Just one question. Why, from €23 billion of the programmes set out in the resolution to 2023, none of these projects are supported in the development programme plan. Will the Government really start implementing this resolution only after 2012?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u135	Thank you. Unfortunately, the government cannot answer you because it has run out of time, and it has already used it to answer the previous questions. Anyone else want to discuss the development agenda plan? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the plan of the development programmes in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.30. We are moving on to the debate on the updated proposal for the 2008 budget of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. Anybody want to talk? Time seems to be really spent. Since no one wants to or cannot discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate on the updated draft budget in its entirety. The updated proposal for the 2008 budget of the Republic of Slovenia will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda or at the latest at 9.30 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2007 and 2008. I'm asking jobs if now is the time to report. Thank you very much. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Mr. Minister Andrej Bajuk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The law on the implementation of the budget before you does not have any specific features or differences as regards the normal law in this respect. We suggest you take it as well. The essential issue, which is important to mention and will certainly be the subject of this debate, is the fact that this possibility opens up that we will be part of what we will save on paid wages tax, and we will use it for other purposes, namely health care itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u137	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! At its 23rd meeting, on 15.11.2006, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 and 2008. In addition to the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also participated in the work of the Committee. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service made comments on certain articles. We also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance on 20.10.2006 of the Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for the Economy and Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Small Economy and Tourism on 27.10.2006 and the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia on 9.11.2006. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 43 of the legislative proposal was tabled by qualified candidates before the Committee's meeting and, on 17.10.2006, the amendment of the parliamentary coalition groups to Article 38 of the law during the meeting. The explanation of the proposal showed that its implementation is at the same time a condition for the implementation of those budgets. In doing so, the applicant shall pursue the basic objective of narrowing down solutions that will provide an appropriate basis for the current and smooth operation or implementation of the budget adopted. The debate also put forward a proposal to amend Article 24 of the DeSUS Group, which was adopted by the Committee and was also adopted by the amendment of the coalition's members to Article 38 and the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 43 was not adopted. A proposal for a law on the implementation of budgets with the amendments adopted for 2007 and 2008, supplemented by a proposal, is being prepared and we propose that the National Assembly also adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u139	Thank you, Mr. Starman. Here comes the presentation of the position of the members of the groups. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Mr President, Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament. The Law on the implementation of the budget and the direct condition for the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 and 2008 and makes it possible to implement it. I'd like to point out some good solutions in marriage. The law lays down general rules for the implementation of the budget. In particular, for reasons of clarity, it is stipulated that the current year’s budget will be implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Public Finance Act. The requirement that the specific part of the budget and the development programme plan are harmonised is certainly relevant as provided for in the law. It is also good that the implementation of the budget is limited in the absence of coordination between the individual part of the budget and the development programme plan. It is only right to provide for the implementation of national programmes and individual laws, which provide for the use of funds from the budget, only so much as the funds allocated to them in the budget and not as stated in the law or the national programme. This avoids the fact that we spend more resources than we have foreseen for each purpose. In the New Slovenia Group, it seems reasonable for us to assume that, as a result of the Presidency of the European Union, the law provides for the possibility that the Ministry of Finance may also finance unforeseen obligations under this title, so that we will not have to change the law for any reason. The law also introduces changes in line with the new European Union directives relating to public procurement and will be taken into account in the drafting of new public procurement legislation, namely raising the thresholds over which the European Commission prescribes mandatory procurement procedures, so it is right to raise these thresholds as provided for in the law. It is also a part of the revenue that is the revenue of municipalities, amounting to EUR 885 million, 182 thousand,654 for 2007 and EUR 922 million,536089 for 2008. In New Slovenia, we believe that the law is well prepared to enable the current and smooth implementation of the adopted budget, so we will support the 2007 and 2008 Budget Implementation Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u142	Mr. President, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Government! In order to implement the 2007 and 2008 budgets, we must also adopt the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 and 2008. The basic objective of the law is to legislate solutions that will enable the current and smooth implementation of the budgets adopted. This Act provides for the 2007 budget of the Republic of Slovenia and for the 2008 budget of the Republic of Slovenia for their composition, the specificity of their implementation, the extent of the State's and public sector's debt and guarantees at national level, the amount of eligible expenditure per capita, the provision of additional revenue to municipalities and the taking of commitments, and also addresses other issues related to the implementation of the budget. Already in explaining our opinion on the 2008 draft budget, we have stressed in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that we believe that we believe in the assurance of the Minister of Finance as well as the Government that VAT increases will not occur, although there is a legal basis for such a measure. Those opposition colleagues who do not believe in this assurance can also be comforted by the fact that the possibility of an increase in VAT from month to month will soon come to the National Assembly in 2008. We know from experience that before such important events no Government takes unpopular measures in this area, especially in the financial field. This has not been done by the previous Government, and it will not, in our opinion, be done by the current Government. The proposed law guarantees what we have discussed in the context of the 1st and 2nd agenda items of today's or yesterday's meeting of the National Assembly. The law was also in line with the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of this National Assembly on the working body, so the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be supported by the draft law on the implementation of the budget in 2007 and 2008.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia is an important law, so it is no coincidence that there has already been considerable attention in the debate and some very strong objections. The main issue is the content of what the National Assembly deals with each year, but there is also news that comes for the first time in thinking or in our system. The process itself may be the one that causes some embarrassment, as it is taken at the same time as the report and at the same time with the adoption of budgets in a particular, slightly overheated atmosphere usually and possibly does not allow for a sufficiently cold assessment for individual better or worse solutions. We in the DeSUS Group support this bill, and we will also support those proposed amendments that we have supported before, but we will not support the amendment proposed by the LDS. We feel that the solution proposed by the Government is appropriate. Perhaps it is not the best, perhaps it could be different, but as it is, it seems appropriate to us now also to have the will to do so, because it collects basically all health expenditure in one place and, in this way, allows for greater transparency, probably also greater supervision and experimentation by health-related rationalisation and efficient use of the resources we are talking about. Since the Government assures us that this will not affect in any way the quality of services, nor the extent of services, nor the availability of services, and we have no particular reason not to believe that it would not be able to do so, because it has prepared depreciation for financial effects, we therefore support this. Perhaps some of the decisions contained in this law would be better regulated in other sectoral legislation, but this urgency of the procedure and the lack of openness of some other legislative proposals does not allow this if we want to start implementing new budgets in a timely manner. I myself would have some concerns or no doubts; I would like to draw some attention to Article 11 which speaks of what dedicated revenue is. I would like to draw attention to the assumption that water refunds will be expected, that payments for water rights and certain other fees will increase in the state budget, and we hope that this does not mean that it is a matter of redistributing funds from municipal budgets or that it is not a matter of redistributing a larger share into the state budget. In particular, in the case of a water load taxi, we are concerned that, due to the operational programme which has been adopted and which will be implemented by the regulation, 1.1.2007, those municipalities that collect or collect water loading funds will not be able to receive those funds. If they are not in the operational programme, they will not be eligible for these funds. It will happen later that other real Slovenia will have a controlled sewage treatment plant to lower the tax due to a higher percentage of purity and then questions will be asked where funds will therefore come from to address these problems in those municipalities that are not currently included in the operational programmes. I hope these warnings I'm talking about are just a fear that won't come true. And I would like it to be so in the future and, therefore, that the State or the Ministry, with the regulations that we, of course, adopt independently and through the national assembly, would not redistribute resources to the detriment of the municipalities and to the benefit of the state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr Bojan Starman will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! The implementation of the Law on the implementation of the budget is a direct condition for the implementation of budgets for 2007 and 2008. The basic objective of the law is to legislate solutions that will enable the current and smooth implementation of the adopted budget. This law lays down for the 2007 budget of the Republic of Slovenia and for the 2008 budget of the Republic of Slovenia their composition, the specificities of their enforcement, in order to empower individual users, with regard to the reallocation of funds or the possibility, to act in the event of a major loss of planned revenues, so that the ministry can in some way limit consumption on certain items, determines the extent to which the State and the public sector can be indebted and guaranteed at national level. I would say that this volume, which has not yet been mentioned, is projected at EUR 1 billion 261 million for 2007, and EUR 1 billion 386 million for 2008, which is a possible level of indebtedness, and the possible volume of new government guarantees of EUR 918 million for 2007 and EUR 1 billion 43 million for 2008. It also provides for the amount of eligible consumption per capita, provides for additional revenue from the municipality and commitments and deals with other issues related to the implementation of the budget itself. The budget implementation act itself, the budget implementation law, so-called ZIPRO, could also be an integral part of the budget. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support both, the 2007 Draft amending budget and the 2008 supplementary draft budget, and it is logical, of course, that we will also support the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the 2007 and 2008 Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We will not support the parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy of the present law. The basic reason is in its 43rd Article, in which the Government stated that, irrespective of the provisions of the law governing the medical service and the law governing the medical activity, the remuneration and compensation of doctors of trainees and secondary workers, they are provided from the funds of the Institute of Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia. In the LDS, we cannot agree with the explanation that the current regime constituted an exception. We believe that in this case the legal basis is clear, that the provision of funds for these salaries is governed by two laws, the Medical Service Act and the Health Act, which states that the funds are provided by the State budget. Such a solution also means the implementation of European practice, since the State must provide education and training to healthcare professionals as its original mission and the institution is obliged to finance only health services and certain financial claims that are a right under compulsory health insurance. Therefore, it is unacceptable for the Government to act unacceptably, without public explanation of the implications of the 2007 and 2008 Budget Implementation Act, to amend the current legislation and, in view of the budgeting of a budget commitment of 2.7 billion dollars per year, which has a clear legal obligation, to transfer obligations to a health care facility. In doing so, it raises the question of ensuring the rights of compulsory health insurance insurers. In order to resolve this, we have proposed amendments to return the funds mentioned to the state budget, but you have rejected them in the ruling coalition. In doing so, I would like to point out in particular the fact that our proposal on the Health Committee has been voted on by you to take a closer look at the consequences of the law. The solutions proposed represent only a patch-up of the budget hole and a transfer of liabilities to the Health Insurance Office, from which we can not only conclude, but argue that the transfer of the financial obligations of the other insurance obligations will reduce insurance obligations for insured persons. Of course, we do not hope to think that, as a result of this, the Minister of Health should propose to the Minister of Finance an increase in the contribution rates for compulsory health insurance. This would mean that their net wages would be reduced as a result of the increase in the contribution rate for employees. However, if this would increase the rate of contribution for employers, this would result in a higher burden on the economy and lower economic growth. In particular, I would like to draw attention to a communication from the Management Committee of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance, which, by special letter, asked all Members to support our amendments to the budget under the relevant heading of the Ministry of Health when deciding on the budget. In their view, the material situation of compulsory health insurance and thus the possibility of exercising the rights of insured persons and access to health services will deteriorate. This is a matter of imposing new permanent tasks and responsibilities on institutions without the provision of new sustainable resources, which may endanger the liquidity of the institution and positive business in the coming years. At the same time, this constitutes an intervention in the 2007 financial plan of the Institute, which has already been coordinated with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance. Finally, I would like to draw particular attention to the highly underestimated and arrogant attitude of the Minister of Health, Dr. Bručan, who presented him at yesterday's meeting when he addressed our amendments to the letter or warned the Management Committee of the Health Insurance Institute, which assesses: "In fact, one such letter from the insurance company is not real enough not to use any other term."the end of the quote. Such behaviour by the Minister, without providing clear arguments for the introduction of these changes, means further evidence that we do not have a clear strategy in the field of health in the Republic of Slovenia, we do not have a minister who would care about the provision of health care for Slovenes and Slovenians as a first priority, showing a highly underestimating attitude towards the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and their warnings. For all these reasons, the LDS Club will vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u149	Thank you. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. You're on the list, Mrs. Breda. No one has announced any change to present the position of the Social Democrats' Group on this law. [[You're giving up.]] We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and on the amendments tabled. So far, we have received one amendment to Article 38. Therefore, I am putting to the debate Article 38 of the law and the amendment to this article which you have received. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 4th item of the agenda or at the latest at 9.30 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. This is on the basis of a proposal for a decision on the sale of state-owned and real-estate assets for the years 2007 and 2008. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motion for a decree. Does the representative of the government want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u150	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In accordance with the Public Finance Act, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, together with the draft budget, a proposal for a programme for the sale of state and financial and real property for the years for which the budget is adopted. The financial and real estate sales programme decree separates the sale and sale of real property programme. The procedures for the sale of financial and real property are so different that it is more appropriate for the programmes to be separated. The process of selling assets is much longer due to market conditions and complexity than the actual property sales process, and therefore more accurate revenue planning under this heading is not possible for each budgetary period. A few words about the asset sale programme. In the context of economic and social reforms to increase prosperity in Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted measures for a transparent and procedure for the withdrawal of the country from the economy and for the coordinated privatisation of the largest companies owned by the country, and therefore this programme for the sale of the country's financial assets in addition to the larger companies includes virtually all the capital investments that are suitable for sale, since it must be possible to sell in the event of a favourable market situation. The programme also includes investments where the sale process is already under way. The method of selling individual capital investments in a transparent manner will be determined in accordance with the rules in the individual case of sales resulting from the analysis of the industry and the company’s needs for further development. All preparatory actions such as prudent financial, organisational and legal review and asset assessment will also be identified as part of the preparation of a specific capital investment sales programme. I'd like to add a few words about the real estate sale programme. The proposal for a real estate sale programme for 2007 and 2008 includes those properties for which the public authorities estimate that they are economically necessary and therefore need to be sold rationally. In addition to the type and scope of the real estate programme, the programme shall also indicate the indicative value of the assets, since it is only in this way possible to plan the revenues of the budget under this heading in full over the next two years. Thus, the sale of real estate would result in a budget of EUR 29 million for the next two years. In this case, the majority [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] for 2007, as these are planned to amount to EUR 28 million 582,000. [[..]] The 2007 sales programme covers those real estates whose sales were already planned by operators with the current sales programme for 2006 and 2007 as well as for those real estates that they included in the proposal for the programme this year. Inflows from real estate sales in 2008 are planned at EUR 692 thousand 597. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u151	Thank you, Mag. Mr Lavric, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. The motion for a decree was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. You've received the report. I now give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present my views on the motion for a decree. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u152	Mr. President, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, once again a good day! The proposal for a decree on a programme for the sale of state and real property for 2007 and 2008 follows economic and social reforms to increase prosperity in Slovenia. In particular, it is an important objective for the country to withdraw from the economy. The proposed decision is clearly following this objective, at least in our view. The key to this is, in particular, transparency and the stage of sales in the sale of state-owned assets. We are aware that a detailed method of selling capital investments will be carried out in accordance with the rules laid down in individual sales programmes. However, in addition to the analysis of the industry and the development needs of the company, it is also necessary to take into account the broader interest in maintaining key companies primarily domestically owned or owned by domestic capital. We have already pointed out this in the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on amendments and additions to the Decree on the Sales Programme of State Finance and Real Estate for 2006 and 2007 September this year when we discussed the sale of the shares of the New Credit Bank of Maribor. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which takes decisions on the sale of property or on privatisation on behalf of the largest owner, the country, the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in our opinion, is obliged to take into account some of the following facts. From the point of view of improving competitiveness, there is no doubt that partial privatisation certainly makes sense to improve the competitiveness of individual companies. This claim is based on the arguments of the professional public and on the fundamental concepts of economic and social reforms followed by the resolution under consideration. However, we reiterate the extent of privatisation and its dynamics. We are convinced that it is not reasonable to be too hasty to sell too many shares; we are advocates of gradual privatisation, especially for all those companies that have been successfully rehabilitated during the transition period by investing in budgetary resources. Thus, in many cases, the Republic of Slovenia has covered the financial burden of the rehabilitation of companies owned by the majority by means of a budget collected from citizens and the Slovenian economy. As a good host, the largest share will be sold when competitiveness targets are achieved. A good owner sells assets in order to achieve the highest possible return or return. We sell or invite strategic partners with fresh capital and give up only as much as we need to enter new ideas, new organisations and new controls. More important shares can only be sold once the price of financial investments reaches its maximum. The revenue from the sale of state property will be badly needed by the Republic of Slovenia for the successful implementation of reforms and for the payment of debts in the coming years, following the assessment of the Slovenian People's Party. A good master must think in the long run, so we expect thoughtful and gradual steps. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and in particular the Finance Minister, and in particular all coalition parties, are ahead of a responsible and challenging task. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support a deliberate, gradual sale of state-owned assets carried out in accordance with the rules, rules of expertise and experience of good experts. Since more than 50% of the shares are sold, they should not be sold to one owner and not to all foreigners. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the motion for a decree, but we will also insist on the positions which have been put forward in this opinion and in the previous considerations of the decision in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u154	Your Honors are here! In view of the content of the said act, which is before us today, one would expect a meeting or two, the whole meeting or two, to be devoted to this content. In view of the content before us today, one would expect that this point of MEPs and Members will be devoted to a strong one for almost a month. Unfortunately, this point has been dealt with and we are selling this state property in two hours' fights. Allow me to introduce you. As regards the complementary proposal for a decision on the sale of state and real property for two years, 2007 and 2008, it is our view that, in addition to the very modest content of a number of inaccuracies or particularly harmful facts for the further development of our country. In the introduction, the proposaler meets several times in the content itself with a word based on the strategy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. From this place, I should be allowed to ask the representative of the Government what is this strategy, where the strategy was adopted and whether the Government is aware that the property it sells is not its property. This is the property of citizens and citizens and that it is solely because of the monopolistic position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is logical, the Government is only the manager of this property, the controller in this direction, that it has the exclusive right to set up organs on the basis of various laws. From this title, at least in the Slovenian National Party, it seems short, kind of incorrect that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is writing on the basis of a government strategy. The Government's strategy in this situation does not mean any consensus of society, no consensus of the professional public, no even less independent branch of government, that is, the National Assembly. If you, honourable Members, look at the list of companies that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia offers for sale, you will notice that under almost every company it says that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is for sale, whether it is a majority share or a smaller share, decided on the basis of a strategy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for transformation or sale. The fact is, no one in Slovenia knows anything about this strategy, that the strategy does not exist at all. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers the strategy to be a triple table or a triple class of sales of state property, as defined in cooperation with the Court and Kad, then, of course, it is a bloody mistake or at least I hope that it is wrong, because if the document on the four lists is considered a government strategy, then it is kind of a shame for the Slovenian State. I would like to highlight and touch on the most important elements, at least after our assessment, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intends to sell during this transitional period. I will start with Telekom Slovenije, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia devotes less than one sheet of paper to him in all its contents. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia touches Nafte Lendava in its content. Nafta Lendava, we all know that she will play one of the key roles in the new so-called strategic or just political partner in the field of chemo. Do you have any idea how much space the government is spending on selling oil to Lendava? Four lines. On the basis of four lines of text, and this very general among them, there is again talk of a strategic owner, as if there is no telling who he will be. On the basis of the four lines, Members and Members are to decide on the sale of this economic operator. The same approximate portion of the lines has the sale of Pek, Snowman, Inoxa, Inlesa, Glina, The companies for the editing of the chandeliers, Toplarne d.o.o. Ljubljana and the like. It is a very interesting piece of text, which, at least within the framework of the Slovenian National Party, brings us all faith in this document. The talk is about point 26, Drava power plant, Maribor d.o.o., a limited liability company. Only those who read and reflect on words will see that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or shaves a lunatic from the National Assembly or herself does not know what he is doing. The Republic of Slovenia has a 0.14% share and the holding of the Slovenian power plants remains. Whose property is Holding Slovenian power plants? This kind of deception, gentlemen and ladies, when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sells everything together in five lines or makes a free decision on the sale of the Drava Power Plants, Maribor, by deceiving in the front row, forgive, is a short disaster. Below, at least under Plan A, the same matter is also identified, i.e. between the list of capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia for sale and the second place of disposal in 2007 and 2008 also Nova Kredittna banka Maribor. As you probably know, the Committee on Finance, when considering this act, i.e. the Sales Decree, has also adopted a decision, and I quote: "The Finance and Monetary Policy Committee proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that, prior to the sale of the New Credit Bank Maribor, a shareholder company, mediate the sale programme of this bank." The question is, who got this program and whether the sales programme was even implemented. They don't know this program at the New Maribor Credit Bank, not based on the answers coming from the Ministry of Finance, that is, within the Ministry of Finance, and not least not in those two parastatal funds, the Court and Kadu. In order to clarify the story surrounding the connection with the New Credit Bank, which is to be sold after that several times-sung strategy, i.e. in the first phase of the 50, below 25 minus one share and to maintain Slovenia in the form of a control or strategic share, the Slovenian Government, the administrators, has maintained 25% of the shares plus one share, thereby guaranteeing us that the Slovenian Government will have an impact on strategic decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, what are the strategic decisions, really life, content, strategic decisions, where will the Slovenian State be able to decide anything else, except any closure? But I do not believe that Slovenians and, of course, Slovenians in the past have built both banking systems, namely the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank, so that it will now be sold with the information of ten or twelve rows. We have not yet received an answer or a summary of what is going on with the purchase. It has not yet been defined or shown to the Slovenian public what is happening to the purchase before the time of the sale of the shares of the New Ljubljana Bank. She was staying at the Dresden Bank for a while. What happened to her later? We don't know. For the time being, the Republic of Slovenia, not the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, does not even know what will happen to the purchase. Then why sell in a given situation? He sells so-called family silver, if not the other. It sells those pillars that everyone once introduced to us as a development generator, a multiplier of development, not only the regions, but the countries as a whole. And in these few minutes that I have at my disposal, let me tell you a story about both banks. We've already missed the story. The other one remains open to us today. It all began before the independence of the two banks without being "new", but exclusively the Ljubljanska banka and Mariborska banka were doing a huge deal on the so-called speculative markets and, of course, got into trouble. Some evil languages tend to cause this problem because of Slovenia's independence, due to the preparation of Slovenia's independence, followed in 1994 when the Basic Constitutional Charter was adopted in the National Assembly and, of course, concluded with a two-thirds constitutional majority to join the two banks with the designation "new". In 1994, the National Assembly allowed banks to transform into the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Credit Bank Maribor. But it is very important that this meeting takes place in 1994. The meeting was held behind closed doors, without the public. The following day, the announcement was made by the then President of the National Assembly and one of the main news in the newspaper was: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in agreement with the Government or with the aspirations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, protected Slovenian citizens in connection with the banking system." But why? Because of the fact that the story and the promise that was still under the decision adopted at the time were to privatise banks on the basis of the privatisation law of banks, for the first time, and with the participation of citizens and citizens. Today, when you place another bank for sale or, rather, sell it, donate it, we do not have a law on the privatisation of banks, not the participation of citizens and citizens. We are twice in violation of the decisions adopted under the Basic Constitutional Charter of the Republic of Slovenia, which has redrafted both banks. During the further period, this was the basic basis for the start of the resolution of the banking system. I believe that a report from the Bank of Slovenia was issued in 1996 entitled Report on the successful completion of the resolution of the banking system. The rehabilitation of the banking system went to the expense of all our citizens and citizens. And Banka Slovenije issued a report on the successfully completed system. At that time, the bank was supposed to be on its feet, the state covered all their obligations or, rather, the citizens and citizens were covered by all their obligations. And it went on in 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, when everyone, from the then Minister of Finance, Mr Gaspari, to all others, who are still more or less in position, believed that when banks were sold, they would be sold on the basis of a privatisation law. Then came the year 1999, when the issue of the privatisation of banks again became a topical issue. At that time, one of the opposition Members, Mr Janez Janša, proposed to the National Assembly the Law on the Privatisation of Banks. In its content, this law, which has been examined, refers to the participation of citizens and citizens. At that time, he spoke very loudly about how our citizens and citizens should be paid with the value of the resolution of the banks they have invested in this system of transformation and the establishment of successful banks. The National Assembly didn't accept that. And at the same time, when we privatise insurance companies, we privatise them under the Privatisation of Insurance Act. When we privatise banks, this is based on, at least in the specific case of New Credit Bank Maribor, twelve lines of text in the act itself, which is called the State Real Estate Regulation, on 38 pages, and contains sales of more than 100 companies. Is that right? The President of the Government said that in the case of the sale of both banks, a parliamentary debate would take place, to your or our President of the Government, now Mr Janez Janša. Of course, there was no parliamentary debate, not in the story of the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, despite the fact that, personally, in 2000, I tried six times to reach a widespread debate through the institution of the parliamentary question. The current majority, the government of the day, rejected it. However, I had the support of my colleague Bajuk, today's minister, and of all the then SDS Members, NSIs and others who formed the opposition. We all shouted in one voice at the time about how privatisation should be carried out through the Law on the Privatisation of Banks. No one in this Chamber can today deny the fact that the only transparent way of selling can be through law, through the law of certain sub-laws, and only in this way would it be possible for citizens and citizens to participate. But then I naively believed that the lack of transparency was solely in the interests of the then President of the Government or the President of the State. Today I see why it's naive. Because the existing Finance Minister and the existing Prime Minister of the Government also have a desire for non-transparent sales. And it's a sad story that people change positions, but when they change positions, they change not only their words, their thoughts, but, above all, their actions. This is exactly what Mr Janez Janša and Mr Andrej Bajuk are doing today or in the given situation. In my opinion, of course, this is very sad and casts some kind of invisibility on the people of their stock, that at times when they are in opposition they say one thing, although they do not believe it when they come into power, they do the same untransparent and equally to the detriment of our citizens and citizens. But I stayed at the year 2000. In 2000, I personally convened a consultation with various parliamentary groups, then represented in the National Assembly, to discuss how the matter of the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank would be transferred to the National Assembly. There was no effect. Then we tried to write a daily letter to the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, and I apologize, Toneto Ropa. There was no answer. We tried the Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Credit Bank Maribor. The law we wrote and the basic content of the law was to stop the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank and, of course, any preparatory procedures for the privatisation of the New Maribor Credit Bank for as long as we have not mentioned the law before us. But the then president of the National Assembly did not assign the law to the working body. This law never came to the plenary session of the National Assembly. You can probably ask yourself why. Of course, since there was a sale at that time with the Belgian KBC, I think it was 33% and the EBRD at 5%. Later, when we realized in the National Party that even the then leadership of the National Assembly was not favorably honest and transparent sales of something owned by all of us, we tried a referendum in connection with the above-mentioned law. But since the law did not come into the procedure, of course the referendum question in this title was not possible. It remained to me, at least personally as a Member, in the interest of both the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank being redesigned or sold, but by no means donated, the last, third option, this is a conversion to the Constitutional Court. Of course, we have proposed to the Constitutional Court that it examines the act, the only act which it had in the legislative process, that was the Ordinance on the sale of State property, with the Basic Constitutional Charter. We simply couldn't put the second act to the test, because there was no second act that would define the sale of this giga institute called the New Ljubljana Bank. But the Constitutional Court also replied, "You have no legal basis." And you know why I didn't have a legal basis? Because he's not supposed to be the savior of the New Ljubljana Bank. In short, I want to tell you that the interest, the capital interest of individual lobbyists in this country in the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Credit Bank is so great that they make a fool of the National Assembly. A fool out of all of us, gentlemen and ladies! Because in this way, when you raise your hands to sell the New Credit Bank of Maribor today, it means not only that you will bypass the Fundamental Constitutional Charter, not only that you will bypass the adopted decision of the National Assembly on this matter, but not only that you will cover all the promises that have been made to citizens and citizens - all of this is in the computer network - if any of you in the 1990s, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already given me several gifts with all these data, interested in the conclusion or you do not believe my words - welcome, I will bring it to you on the table, just instruct me. Ladies and gentlemen, we should not be selling this state silver or gold in this way - however you wish. Well, in all this it is most interesting or not the most interesting that, at least as far as the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank is concerned, they agreed to purchase 33% a while ago in the moment of sale with the Belgian KBC and later with the EBRD. Why? Because it was agreed that they would acquire the right to a further ownership relationship in October 2005. We have also drawn attention to this point from the then President of the Government and Minister of Finance. But this sales strategy, as offered to us today by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is detrimental to our further development. No matter how many times we all beat each other's chests and talked about how meaningful it is to keep these giga financial instruments or monetary policy holders in Slovenian hands. The countries surrounding us or members of the European Union shall not allow for such sale or such sale. In addition, let me tell you that the Spanish story in connection with France, when a strong commercial bank, a Spanish commercial bank, not a state bank, was purchased by the Portuguese, later three months later, the Spanish authorities repealed the act because they said that too much damage had been done to Spain because they had sold the commercial bank to the foreigners. We're not talking about a commercial bank or, say, a private bank. In the case of New Credit Bank Maribor we are talking about a bank that has been saved from the money of every Slovenian or Slovenian; we are talking about a bank that is owned by all of us. No one, except some lobbyists, will benefit from this. We will not support the National Party of the Act, but once again for all those Members who may be interested in what the story is - they have documents to hint at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u156	Thank you very much again, Mr President. Warnings that we are talking about very important things today are justified. We're talking about state property, we're talking about the possibilities of selling this property, real and financial, and a glimpse across the names or through the companies listed in the annex tells us enough about how important things are. However, at the same time, it is right to note that we will not sell anything today, not big or small, but to talk today about whether we will allow some of the procedures that are long and strong and complicated and that we will probably talk a lot about in the coming years to begin. Otherwise, we would have simply closed it down, but this is not our intention to close down processes, restructuring, restructuring our economy, both substantive and statusal or ownership. And the adoption of this decree does not mean that all these companies, all of this financial or real property, which is set out in this large annex, will be sold quickly, poorly, as a matter of urgency. Perhaps it is right to point out that the goal is one of those that we are all following, to change what is still bad in our economy, so that we really allow a smaller impact of policy across our country on the business of our companies, to allow privatisation, which is not, as some would like to show, in itself quite bad; but it is right to point out that the owner is good, not looking at whether he is right or not, but whether he is able to bring appropriate leadership, appropriate technologies, appropriate development concepts, or whether he has appropriate market shares and everything else, which allows him to be successful. You don't have to sell just like that. This item of the agenda we are talking about today could perhaps be called otherwise - we are looking for a good master. We note that many of the companies on this list that are ahead of us are such that it is difficult to give them the property of good masters and that it is essential to change these. In time, we may find that many of them are well - guided, and there will be no need to sell them at all costs, especially at all costs. The goal must not be to find simply a private owner, our goal must be to sell openly, transparently, to maximize the effects that will be good for us all, and to sell gradually, and that these effects, which should be maximised, will be such that they have a positive long-term impact not only in order to possibly settle quickly any debt we have. I therefore wonder whether the report accompanying it does not correctly state that one of the objectives of ensuring the receipt of the budget is to do so. This certainly cannot be a more important objective, at least not by providing the means by which we will then be able to finance some ongoing business and in time find that this capital we have will perhaps no longer be. Well, the Legal and Legislative Service has had some concerns, these concerns are, I think, properly eliminated, so we will also support this decision in the DeSUS Group of Members. By the way, I would like to mention that in the field of real property, the state is indeed a very bad master and that a new and better master needs to be sought. Whether it is the assets of DSU, the Slovenian Railway Holding, the agencies, or whether it is the different funds we have, we often find ourselves in practice in poor management and what is worst about it is that we do not respect our own arrangements, how we will transfer this business unnecessary and poorly managed property to those who have the projects that are prepared, which we can properly implement with this property. I hope that some of the changes that have been made in recent times will mean that it will be possible for the municipalities to also acquire and manage the commercially unnecessary assets better and more cost-effectively. In such a hope, we also support this proposal for a decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u157	Thank you. We continue to present our views. Member Rudi Veršnik has the floor in terms of presenting the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. The proposal for a regulation on a programme for the sale of financial and real property for 2007 and 2008 fulfils the last requirement laid down by the Public Finance Act when the budget is submitted. The State's financial assets under Article 76 of the Public Finance Act constitute monetary assets, claims, debt securities and shares and shares in legal persons' capital and other capital investments. However, the State Real Estate Act defines public finances as movable property and property owned by the State. As a starting point for the development of a capital investment sales programme, the fact that the State has decided to withdraw from the economy transparently and to allow parallel privatisation of the largest state-owned companies in parallel. This opens up the possibility of a market share under the most favourable conditions of resale under favourable market conditions. Of course, for each capital investment it is necessary to prepare a privatisation programme. The methods of sale are specified in the provisions of the Public Finance Act and in the Regulation on the sale and other forms of disposal of state and municipal assets and the Regulation on the acquisition, disposal and management of real property of the State and municipalities. The aim of this is to maximise the budgetary revenue in the light of the highest possible selling price. Of course, for some types of capital investments due to the macroeconomic interests of the country associated with economic development, maximising budgetary revenue cannot be the only key and objective of sales. The government, in the proposal for sale and in the second place of capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia, whose purchase is the receipt of the budget, represents 65 legal persons with data on the current situation and the situation available. In the second table, the Government provides us with a list of nine legal entities for sale in which the country has indirect investments and the purchase is not a receipt of the budget. The proposal for a decree also proposes a real estate sale programme for 2007 and 2008. The list is supplemented by an estimate of the value of the assets to be sold over the next two years, but those assets whose estimated value is less than three million tolars are not included. The estimated value of this asset is over 7 billion, which is expected to flow into our budget in the coming years. I announce that in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the proposal to sell assets for 2007 and 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u159	Thank you. Member Mitja Slavinc has the floor to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. The Slav is my last name, by the way, he's not Slavinac. The points that can be pointed out in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia in relation to sales are that the privatisation of the New Credit Bank, Telekom, Slovenian steel industry and the sale of Peka also sells Thermoelectric and thermal Ljubljana and Thermoelectric Trbovlje and other shares for which we can expect 500 million at book value. This will certainly reduce public debt, which is the purpose of this sale. At the same time, however, we note that this is a book value, and we expect the actual value of sales to be higher. We know that so far this has been a factor between 2 and 3, and it is good to achieve more, because the government has not shown that it would be the most successful in limiting public spending, so these higher funds will be even more welcome. However, we cannot support this proposal for a decision on the sale of state property in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group. The proposed sale of New Credit Bank Maribor and the majority stake in the Slovenian steel industry at the book value of New Credit Bank Maribor EUR 185 million, but it is likely that the market value will reach around 500 million. So let's get this straight first. We're not talking about 185 million, but we're talking about two and a half, or three times the amount. And for example, the 500 million that we can expect from the sale of New Credit Bank Maribor, given the sample that we can see when selling NLB, it's important what model this share will be sold by. As far as this is concerned, we would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have never discussed the model of privatisation of the NKBM in the National Assembly. Today, we have a decision on the sale of property again on the table. In fact, this decree also contains a model for the privatisation of the New Credit Bank of Maribor, and we have not said a word in this Assembly about these matters, either on the Committee on the Economy or on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. In knowledge we have got what the plan is, just in knowledge - we are informed, and this is it. Today we can indirectly confirm or not confirm this model. I wonder if it is the right way and whether it would be wrong, the minimum correctness to the National Assembly would require that the same commission that prepared the privatisation model of the New Maribor Credit Bank should come to the aforementioned committee and explain the reasons for the model used. In this case, it would be easier to make decisions today, but this debate was not easy and is trying to put it under the rug. Even some eminent financial experts point to the weaknesses of the model used. For example, Dr. France Arhar points out that the proposed model is not good, points to weaknesses, even more, to the story of the New Ljubljana Bank, where, with the withdrawal of KBC, a dilemma arose for all potential investors in the future, to what extent the Slovenian state was even credible when it spoke of some privatisation plans of financial institutions. This will be the words, as I said, of the former Governor of the Bank of the Republic of Slovenia, which were summarized in one of the business logs. In short, in the Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, I would like to draw your attention to some of the traps of this approach that we are taking today. Today, we will simply, probably the coalition representatives, confirm the Decree on the disposal of state property without discussing the privatisation model in advance or without being properly aware of what this model will be. However, we must look into the State Property Retail Regulation to find out what the envisaged model for the sale of this property is. What is the approach that the Government is doing in this way, we might ask ourselves. What is the attitude toward the National Assembly, the working bodies? We are also asking about this in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Finally, we would also like to emphasise the crucial fact that we cannot support this way of indirect privatisation of the New Maribor Credit Bank through this decree of divestment of state assets. Simply because there was no talk anywhere about certainly the best possible privatisation model with recapitalisation. That way, the bank would get fresh capital. In this way, Nova Credit Bank Maribor could be transformed into a more important player in the capital and banking market. Last year, it had a 10% market share in Slovenia and this market share declined, it also fell at the expense of other foreign banks on which it is discussed and its competitiveness, the competitiveness of our bank can be improved mainly or, if you want, only by recapitalising it. The Bank urgently needs new capital to expand itself. At the same time, it should be noted that the group of the New Credit Bank Maribor also includes the Maribor Insurance Office and that it is one of the most important financial groups. There is no mention of any recapitalisation in the decree, of course, since the Sales Decree is not about recapitalisation, but also in the model envisaged as we can choose from these materials, it is not envisaged and this is bad. This is also contrary to the recent approaches to privatisation in the field of financial institutions. The most appropriate way, as I have already pointed out, is through recapitalisation, because this also increases tax competitiveness and then, of course, the bank can be more expensive and all of them have the most benefits. Why would not a potential investor, domestically or abroad, still have some equity share by recapitalisation, while the country would have made its equity share more valuable in this way, thus making the most profit. Similar issues arise in the case of the sale of Telekom Slovenije and in the sale of other capital investments. These are some of the important questions that we wanted to point out that we have not received an answer to so far and that is why we cannot support this decision on the sale of state property in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u161	Thank you. Member Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Both the report and this decree that we have before us today are definitely not and you cannot get as kind an assessment as I had previously heard from the members of the ruling coalition for the budget, which you have assessed as a highly quality product and will most likely also receive a sign for the quality of Q-2023 in the near future. However, I have to point out and give plus to the applicant that the Government or the Ministry has taken into account the proposal, the date of the last reading of a similar decision, that a report on the real estate sales of the State and real property included in the previous decisions is also submitted in the envisaged disposal programme, and that a fog creating a series of doubts and suspicions is dispersed in this way, or that the sale is actually carried out in accordance with a certain procedure. However, the very extent of the realisation, which is recorded in the report only in the 15-page fights, speaks of the fact that the arguments on urgency and time constraints for the divestment by the proposer have been removed more from the vine than are realistic and rational. Nothing needed to be rushed at the end of last year’s year and so on in the spring of this year, as the review of the report shows that only a little more than 4% of the assets were sold off. 95% of all assets disposed of by previous decrees are still on the disposal shelf; or in other words, it was planned to obtain a minimum of more than 15 billion tolls by reselling, not taking into account the market prices but the bookkeeping prices recorded in the decision or in the divestment programme. In fact, it was sold off for more than 700 million tolars. Why is this so, why such slowness is not explained in the report? It is also possible to identify a whole range of unrealised divestments by stating that there is a new divestment programme at the stage of the divestment, or to develop a new divestment concept, or that there has been a change in the composition of the commission and so on. These are not good arguments and speak more in favour of those who believe that the sale is intended to delay; or in other words: the main feature of privatisation in Slovenia is certainly its longevity, which continues also under the tactics of this Government, although the last two years most of its protagonists claim and this is only verbally that it will be different. Practice is the opposite. Experience from other transition countries confirms that the higher rate of withdrawal of the country from the economy has also minimised the possibility of political corruption and the report on the realisation of the resold or sale of assets only confirms these doubts and suspicions. In doing so, it is clear that this same policy is of little concern that any wrong decisions made by state-owned owners and funds in the future will be made in the form of higher taxes and contributions. Therefore, the new decree or programme for the divestment of state and real property for 2007 and 2008 is already based on a well-known old model, when the coalition majority in this national council will once again adopt a decree with specific figures that are not real and are accounting and only approximate. Also in this decree we are talking about a lot of high amounts of assets and the figures in the decree are really misleading, especially when selling those equity shares that are not currently checked on the market. Here I am thinking mainly of, as has already been mentioned today, New Credit Bank Maribor, Telekom, Pekko, that I am not talking about energy companies such as Thermoelectric Trbovlje and Toplarna Ljubljana, and Drava power plants, etc., where in individual cases the values are ridiculous. Therefore, it would be appropriate for Members to receive to the National Assembly, in the sale of some of the major financial investments, as I mentioned them, an assessment of the divestment programme, since, last but not least, we Members are the ones who give the Bianca Opinion for the legal basis of the sale procedure of this share by confirming today's proposed decision. Therefore, for the third time in the Group of Social Democrats, we have requested and again believe that the sale of state property must take place in a more transparent manner, with defined terms of sale, with a pre-known percentage of assets that we cannot only be aware of or not yet aware of, but that we should also give our opinion. For the worst part would be if the "cassa" from the sale of state property were to fill only a bag to reduce public debt and the remainder or only symbolic sums would be intended for new programmes and opening new jobs. It is the government that has all the instruments to prevent damage to state property and damage to shareholders, especially small ones - it must have the will and desire. And because, through this decree, it does not express this desire and will, we will not support this decision in the parliamentary group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u163	Thank you. The position of the Nova Slovenija Group will be presented by Member Cyril Testen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u164	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In New Slovenia, we are and will stand for the withdrawal of the country from the economy, if this means greater efficiency of businesses, better quality of services, lower prices for consumers or users of services and thus increase the competitiveness of the economy. Studies show that state-owned companies are less efficient and thus prevent economic growth. By selling capital investments to the Republic of Slovenia, we are following the targets set to phase the country out of the economy. In New Slovenia we support long-term privatisation objectives, which will ensure effective management, competitiveness and successful development for both the Slovenian steel industry and the New Maribor Credit Bank, as well as for Telekom and other companies. The Decree also included a real asset for which the public administrations consider it to be unnecessary and more rational to sell, as well as a financial asset created during the year because the Republic of Slovenia acquires, under the Succession Act, the heirs of which have been forfeited due to the burden of inheritance. This property is worth selling as soon as possible and paying off the creditors with a ransom. In New Slovenia, we believe that the Regulation on the Sales Programme for State and Real Estate for 2007 and 2008 is well prepared to be realistic and enhances the competitiveness of the economy, so we will support this decree in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u165	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Before the general debate, however, Members and Members of Parliament on the proposal for a law, I see that a procedural colleague, Boštjan Zagorac, wishes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! However, one answer would only require the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to tell us whether the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken into account the constitutional decision of this National Assembly when preparing the material for this agenda item. [[I think you've got it.]] of 27.7.1994, which states: "In preparing the privatisation law of banks, account will be taken of the participation of citizens in the ownership of the rehabilitated banks." If this is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I must regret that there is no Minister present at such an important point, because I think it is very important for him to sit here and tell us this - at the final stage, we can say that you did not take into account the constitutional decision of this country or the constitutional decision adopted by the National Assembly, or a few years ago, but still a valid constitutional decision. And then, at the final stage, it can be considered that the material before us can even be unconstitutional. But I don't think the government would have allowed it, so I'd be happy to hear your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u167	Thank you for the procedural question. I'm asking the government representatives, who's going to answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I will try to answer the question raised, and it is important to note that the decree before you is actually in line with 80c. Article 1, the first procedural step towards actually selling financial assets. Therefore, the financial investment itself must be included in the decree in order to begin at all, so that the Commission can be appointed, the Commission will continue to carry out appropriate activities, including a careful financial and legal review and, last but not least, the preparation of the programme of broadcasting, after which the sale itself is carried out. Notwithstanding the fact that the decision follows some of the social, economic reforms, it is important that we be aware that the sales programme has not yet been written down and that it is open as such. And in this it is possible to foresee different solutions with the aim of increasing the competitiveness of individual investments, greater economic growth and the like. Finally, it is also very important that during the period when the decision was adopted there was, in fact, no legal basis to regulate the transparent sale of assets. In fact, this was created in 1999 when the Public Finance Act was adopted in the National Assembly and further regulated by the Regulation on the sale and other management of real and financial assets. This means that, in fact, the legal basis is the commitment to respect it, and this will be done by the Ministry and the Government to make the sale transparent, public and with the objectives we have set out quite precisely in the annex to this decree. Perhaps we can use a few more words for other questions that have been asked. Therefore, let us mention; given that the investment of the New Ljubljana Bank has been repeatedly mentioned, the sale of this investment has taken place on the basis of the same regulation as we have now. And in fact, if we go back to the investment of the New Maribor Credit Bank, I would mention that we probably remember that there was a large debate on this investment actually in this National Assembly two months ago. At that time, you voted in favour of placing this investment in the sales programme in 2006 - 2007. Thus, the Minister of Finance also answered a number of questions raised at the time and today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u169	Thank you for your answer, by just letting you know that they are regulations and decrees under the law. You probably know the hierarchy of legal acts. We continue the debate. Procedurally again, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u170	Thanks again. My question was very exact. I believe that you have remembered it, if you are not, I will repeat it again: Did the Government take into account a constitutional decision in the drafting of the decree saying that when it comes to the privatisation of banks, there must be a special law for this, which will take account of the participation of citizens in the ownership of banks? A very simple question to which I believe you will answer very simply with the words yes or no. If not, I suggest that this point be interrupted because the material is unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u171	Thank you. I ask for an answer, and then we continue with the general debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u172	Thank you very much again. Only if I complete the answer from before. We talked about the Public Finance Act, in addition to the regulation and the decree. As for the question raised again, it is simply difficult to answer with the answer: yes or no. However, I can say once again that the decree does not include a sales programme and the sales programme may include participation, I will say, of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. As far as we can explain further, we know that the purchase is in accordance with the Public Finance Act in Article 74, where it says that the purchase is intended to cover or pay debts from the financing account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u173	Thank you. I believe that we will return to this in the course of the debate, and we are going to have a general debate. Member Willie Rezman has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] I give my word to Mr. Happy Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It may be possible to focus more on the sale of capital investments. Why the country sells these investments - there are more reasons for this. The rule of law has certainly decided to withdraw gradually from the economy. And by this decree that we are considering today, we are moving forward on this path. Given that we are listening to many criticisms that politics is too interfering with business operations where it has its shares, that it affects human resources decisions, business decisions, the sale of these shares, of course, is a contribution to the fact that these things would eventually no longer happen or that these observations could no longer be maintained. When we talk about the sale of these investments, at least if we look at the list, the list of those included in this annex could be placed in two groups: one group is one where the country has a negligible percentage of the percentage and also an absolute amount. I don't think there's much to think about. The country, I don't know why interest should hold a 0,0 share, I don't know, 1% or even smaller, because it has no management rights and actually no tangible financial effects. However, it is quite different for those companies where the country has a large, majority or even 100% share, where large-capital enterprises are concerned and where they are very important companies as on the market. More questions are asked here. First of all, what is the strategic interest of the state in such a company? What does a country get from such a company, the country, the region, the city - anyway? On the other hand, we must not forget what the company receives from such owner. Can the owner help to develop this company in order to increase market share, its capital and so on? In many cases, it has been shown that the country is not well or qualified enough to allow this company a certain perspective, some development. Of course, in such cases, it is logical that the state is gradually withdrawing. Personally, I am not for some radical moves, as far as this is concerned, but some gradual, transparent, transparent retreat and withdrawal to the extent that the state still retains some control stake in order to possibly protect its strategic interests. Ownership in itself for those who defend the ownership of certain companies does not necessarily mean only good. When those who are protecting this property have in mind those companies that have good business results that are perspective and so on; but the state also owns those companies where business is not good where it is necessary to keep them, it is also necessary to invest certain funds, certain aid, and that is the burden of the owner. Thus, both salaries must be kept in front of the eyes when we are talking about these equity shares in companies. And where the state is simply failing, has no business connections, has no programs, has no resources to enable these companies to have a future, then it is logical to me that the country withdraws as soon as possible and that there are those owners who will be able to make something out of this company, and if the company is successful, we will all be able to get something back into the ransom, of course, indirectly through taxes and something else, jobs. Fear of strangers. My friend Rezman already mentioned, in fact, a foreigner is always having some fun. In Slovenia we have quite a few cases where the foreign owner actually developed the company, updated it, brought new programmes and so on. And that in advance, fear of strangers - I wouldn't say that. It is true, however, that we must protect ourselves from some hostile acquisitions, from those potential owners who have other intentions to come to our market and something else, I do not know. In particular, I would point out that there is no perfect protection against strangers. Koper Bank. We sold the Koper Bank to our home owners; but then what happened in the next phase? We live in Europe, we no longer live in a closed state. Money dealers and locals show up, but Slovenian owners sold what they did and earned a greasy profit, but that's the second part of the story. Earlier in the debates, I had heard the problem that the value in these tables, the value of these companies, is too low. I don't see a problem here. Thank God, if we can make it twice or three times or five times more, it would be nice if we did. It is not our goal to survive as much as the book value here is, but as much as possible, what the market offers. As many as possible! As far as the speed is concerned, he's selling you. The act itself, the very decree we are taking is not a final sales programme, but is actually the first step to trigger these procedures. Nor does it mean that all companies that have also sold on this list will be sold. They haven't been in the last few years either. Why didn't they? Yeah, every normal master won't sell if it's not the right time if there's no real buyer and he just waits. But somewhere, or at some point, these procedures need to start, and this decision actually only opens the way for us to prepare a program for every company on this list. Perhaps, as mentioned earlier, for the New Credit Bank of Maribor or even for the sale of banks, that, as stated here, this decision of the National Assembly will take into account the participation of citizens in the ownership of the rehabilitation of banks. For this reason, of course, I will support this decision and I expect the country to withstand it as much as possible. However, what was already the question, what about these purchases; these purchases, also stated in the decree, will go directly into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u175	Thank you. My friend Happy Hwauc. Dividends, dividends are owned by a state, albeit a small one, in certain companies. My colleague, Bojan Starman, has the floor. Here you go. You're giving up. The word is from Dr. Matthew Lachovnik. He's not here. Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word. He's not here. The word has magic. Milan M. Squeakle. He's not here. Member Aloys Posedel has the floor. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that. Since I have also dedicated a large part of the report in my introduction, which is ready - because I must admit it and everyone else we admit to you that we first received the report so made, and because it has been said several times today, even now in the debate that it is as large as possible, I will, for example, be sold at a public auction for 25 million SIT. If you look back, March 2005, the bookkeeping value or any approximate value is exactly the same and means a square meter in the middle of Ljubljana 800 euros. That this is the same maximisation, compared to Ljubljana, but I will give the garsonier sold by the Ministry of Culture, 27 square metres for 14 million, where the price of the square meter was 2000 euros. Now, please, those who say that in these procedures and all these matters they will try to get the maximum prices out of this; how is it possible in the middle of Ljubljana to get a £800 per square meter restaurant in the centre? The garage at the same restaurant was 200 euros more expensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u177	Thank you. Member Rudy Veršnik has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. Well, on the Committee on Finance, we had a big debate on this value. In fact, the first tables we received said that the estimates are bookkeeping, and now in these new tables they are no longer bookkeeping, but they are estimated values. How can such things happen - so I'd say we can't talk. It depends very much on where the place is, where, in what state, in short, there's a whole bunch of factors that affect that price. And in this House to talk about real things, I think it's a little excessive. Clearly, the law already requires those who are in charge of this sale to withdraw the maximum purchase, and they are likely to be responsible for their business. If he's not in the past, I can't judge, but I hope he does now. The next thing I want to say is this. With regard to the shares themselves, however, there is a procedure, and such procedures must be carried out, from any possible analysis to the determination of value - in short, to all these assessments and the result must be a fair price, which is not necessarily the highest, if there is some macroeconomic interest here, in addition to which we must clearly take into account. I think that the material is prepared correctly, transparent, also contains an overview of the sales so far, and I think it needs to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u179	Thank you, too. I would like to take the floor and invite a representative of the government. Here you go, please. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled, namely Article 4 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? I'm opening an application procedure for discussion. Here you go, please. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. In view of my previous discussion, as this is part of the report that has already been implemented and as this amendment relates to the fact that certain things are being prolonged in advance, I would suggest, if it is possible to adopt an additional decision in doing so, to review once again the sale process of this business space. Once again, it is not possible for a garage to be more expensive than a business space at the same location. This is unacceptable and no one will convince me - and it says, a public auction, both sold at a public auction, and it is impossible for such an auction to occur at a public auction.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u181	Thank you. From this place I have to warn you that, on the basis of the new Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly no longer takes decisions; this was the topic of the parent working body. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote, which is 17.25 hours, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. Until then, I'm adjourning the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please check the voting device's functioning. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Financing of Municipalities. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments and articles. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendments. We turn first to the decision on the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia to Article 8. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, with 10 votes against 42. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 8. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 6. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted would have made the law inconsistent. We are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 12. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Draft Amendments to the 2007 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to this item on the agenda, I inform you that the LDS, SD and SNS parliamentary groups have announced obstruction until the end of this item. We are moving on to a decision on the 2007 Development Programme Plan of the Draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Procedurally, Mr. Squeakle, you can't because you've already given procedural reasons for obstruction. We're voting. A vote on the 2007 draft amending budget is under way. There are 44 Members and Members present, so the vote has failed. We will try again in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We'll vote next time. We're still inconclusive. I'm adjourning the session. We'll continue at 5:40.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please take your seats! We are moving on to the third vote on the 2007 development programme plan. We're voting. We are still inconclusive, so I suggest that you do not object to our meeting adjourning and continuing on Monday at 10 a.m. due to indiscretion. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u184	Thank you. Mr President, I would suggest that we move on with at least some points, for those for whom the quorum will be established and that we do the budget for 2007 and 2008 on Monday. Other points connected to ZIPRO and other things can be continued.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u185	We can only vote on the 2008 budget. Mr. Squeakle, please. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u186	Yes, a procedural proposal and a procedural matter, given what has just been said, because you have decided to continue, of course, adopting the 2008 budget. On behalf of the Liberal Democracy, I predict that we will not participate in the adoption of the 2008 draft budget because we estimate that today's debate and yesterday's vote on the amendments to the 2007 budget have shown that there is no will in the National Assembly to accept the opposition's proposals. It would be best if we held a correspondence meeting of the National Assembly and confirmed those amendments with which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees. Having a discussion, a debate, and then rejecting the substantive amendments when voting, is unacceptable to us. Therefore, as for the 2007 budget, we are forecasting obstruction when the budget is adopted for 2008 and the related Law on the Implementation of the Budget and the Regulation on the Sale of Financial and Real Property. Good evening!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Potch, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u188	Yeah. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have already announced internally that the Group of Social Democrats will also obstruct the decision on the 2008 state budget. We have tabled meaningful, identical amendments to the 2007 budget to this budget. The views of the Government and the Finance Committee were the same, the coalition had a negative attitude on the parent's working body towards all proposals. We do not believe that something else would have happened this time at the meeting of the National Assembly after thorough debates, because we have a memory from this morning and yesterday evening of what this meeting was yesterday regarding the 2007 budget. We are particularly concerned about the way in which the coalition Members act in the amendments, in which the political ratings of individual Members and Members have indeed been shared without any criteria. This is absolutely unacceptable, and I think that the coalition that advocates the rule of law is a coalition that advocates honesty, something that should not be afforded. We, Mr President, will not participate in this agenda item, in the 2008 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u189	Thank you. So we're still at point one. The third vote was unsuccessful, but we voted on all the amendments yesterday. We ended the vote on individual parts or amendments. I'm asking if we can move on to the question of coherence. Since we were inconclusive in the third vote, we cannot proceed with the first point, so I am terminating it. I'm also adjourning the meeting. We'll pick her up Monday, 10:00. Members and Members of Parliament, please return for a moment to the Chamber, to the Coalition Members, or to all those who did not announce the obstruction. I have just been informed that the proposal to continue the 2008 budget was justified and that amendments to the 2008 budget could be dealt with, accepted and voted on. If possible, we can continue the meeting. I am adjourning the meeting for five minutes and calling a meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, all those present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please come to the hall and take your seats. So we've broken up point one. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda - consideration of the 2008 supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the 2008 Complementary Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote on the 2008 general part is under way. We were inconclusive, so we'll vote another time. I ask that you pay a little attention to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. We're inconclusive again. So I'm adjourning the session. We'll continue at 18.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u191	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Please take your seats. We'll try the vote for the third time. Voting on the general part of the 2008 Complementary Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to the third attempt to vote on the proposal. We're voting. Voting on the 2008 General Work There are 48 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 4. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the general part of the 2008 supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments to the specific part of the 2008 Supplemental Draft Budget, which will be voted on by the individual budget users to whom the amendments are tabled. I am moving on to the first user, the Ombudsman, to a vote on the Slovenian National Party's amendment proposal. Explanation of voice. Just one hand. Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u192	Your Honors are here! On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, we are forecasting obstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-17-SDZ4-Izredna-23.ana.u193	There's no reason. I didn't even understand if it was an obstruction of the vote. Unfortunately, there was no explanation. In view of the experience so far in voting, I am adjourning the meeting and will continue on Monday at 10 a.m. Thank you so much, good night and have a good weekend!
