ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear Members and honourable Members! We begin with the continuation of the 18th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Roberto Battelli, mag. Branko Grimes, Aleš Gulič, Aurelio Yuri, Dr. Matthew Lachovnik, Dr. Marko Pavliha from 18:00 on, mag. Majda Potrata, Maria Poszonec, Josef Školč from 18:00 on and Milenko Ziherl. We're moving to 2. It's a proposal for a constitutional amendment act of 121st, 140th. IN 143. Member of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a constitutional law was submitted by the Constitutional Commission for consideration by the assembly and received by a report from the Commission. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Commission, Dr Slavko Gabru, for the introduction of the report and the proposal for a constitutional law. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u2	Dear Mr. President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. At its meeting on 8.6.2004, the Constitutional Commission considered the working text of the proposal for a constitutional law amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution of Slovenia. In addition to the majority of the members of the Constitutional Commission, the representative of the Government, the Minister responsible for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, expressed his satisfaction at the adoption of the proposed constitutional changes in the area of regionalism, which are a necessary basis for the adoption of legislation and thus for the implementation of the process of establishing the provinces in the Republic of Slovenia. They agreed that the National Assembly was still awaiting a difficult search for the best legal solutions that would enable the establishment and functioning of the provinces, thereby taking an important and crucial step towards the decentralisation of Slovenia. In addition to the majority support for the proposed text, the position of the NSI Group was expressed that it would not support the proposed constitutional law to amend those articles of the Constitution unless legislation was adopted prior to the decision on the constitutional law at the meeting of the National Assembly, which would provide for the financing of the provinces and the transfer of functions to the provinces. The SNS Group also stated that it would not support the proposed amendments to the Constitution, as the proposal for a constitutional law does not resolve the issue of the number of provinces. At the same time, a proposal was made to suspend the review, to establish and propose an appropriate number of provinces, which would then be enshrined in the constitutional law. The President of the Constitutional Commission, France Cukjati, Dr. medicine, as well as some members of the Commission, stressed that these issues had already been dealt with thoroughly in the first phase of the constitutional audit procedure, when the Constitutional Commission examined and reported on the draft constitutional law. After a discussion with the two-thirds majority of all members, 20 of us were supported by the proposal, 1 vote against it, adopted a proposal for a constitutional law amending 121., 140. and 143rd Articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and proposes that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia consider it and adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u3	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Dr. Ivan Žagar, Minister without a department, responsible for local self-government and regional policy, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! The proposal for a constitutional law that you are adopting today places the provinces in the Slovenian state system as an important level of public affairs between the state and the municipalities. The proposed constitutional changes are therefore a decision for a different, even more democratic Slovenia, decision for faster and more balanced development of Slovenia. Amendments to Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which contain a compromise proposal to initiate a constitutional change procedure with the first-signed Member of the General Assembly of France Tsukjati, are the result of a common understanding of policy and of the importance of regionalisation for the further development of democracy at local level in Slovenia and are a very important step in the process of faster establishment of landscapes in Slovenia. The constitutional provisions are the basis for the drafting of laws that will allow the decentralisation of government functions and the transfer of an important part of public affairs from the state to the provincial level, closer to the people and to their greater benefit. The delegation of tasks will require real decentralisation, i.e. the transfer of tasks from the state to the provincial level, together with financial resources and the implementation structure. The new provisions of Articles 121 and 140 of the Constitution open the process of decentralisation of public administration by transferring the performance of State tasks to local communities, provinces and municipalities, thereby enforcing the European principle of subsidiarity in determining the level of performance of State tasks relevant to each individual. The most important is the amendment to Article 143 of the Constitution. On its basis, the provinces will receive the legal status of self-government local communities. They will be established simultaneously in the whole country. They will have the same legal status and tasks throughout the country. In the area between the municipality and the country, the provinces will carry out those local types of tasks that the municipalities will voluntarily transfer to the provinces and, on the other hand, matters of regional importance that will be determined by law in order to implement them. Most importantly, the Constitution allows the transfer of a number of state-level tasks from the state level to the bottom, allowing for a completely new organisation of the implementation of state tasks at both levels of local self-government. The provision of a Constitution regulating the adoption of a law establishing the provinces by a two-thirds majority of the Members present and the participation of the municipalities requires a high degree of consensus in determining the areas and thus the number of the provinces, which makes it impossible to change their area frequently. I believe that this consensus will also be maintained when a package of provincial legislation is adopted, i.e. powers and tasks, financing, elections, which means actually carrying out the process of establishing the provinces. Dear Members and honourable Members! The adoption of the constitutional law thus gives us the basis for the next step in the process of establishing the provinces, the preparation of legislation that is already in progress. Only the establishment of the provinces means the decentralisation of our country and an important contribution to the balanced development of Slovenia. I therefore believe that the adoption of a constitutional law in the process of establishing the provinces is necessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u5	Thank you, Minister. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u6	Your Honors are here! According to an assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, it could be said that the existing constitutional dictatorship allows for landscapes in our country or within the Republic of Slovenia. As you probably know, a few years ago, a so-called Korean province law came into the National Assembly. The law was written in cooperation at the time by Members coming from the province of Cora and some mayors from that area. The legislative and legal service then allowed the parliamentary procedure to begin, but later it was mainly due to the government's influence on the withdrawal or the fact that there was no final vote on the law on the province of Koroška. I want to say that, according to our assessment, and then after assessing the legal service as an institution to ensure implementation and compliance with the legislation, it has been possible and is still possible that Article 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia allows the establishment or connection between local communities in terms of the province or in the form of landscapes. Of course, it was then broken down, mainly when it came to the question whether it is sufficient that we have only one province in Slovenia, that is, the province of Koroška, how the other municipalities will transform or form and how many such provinces will be. But no matter what, the biggest flaw in the proposal at the time was the issue of funding and the question of the obligation of that new creation. And from that day on or from that year on, however you wish, there is still an open issue of funding and the issue of tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, with the proposal for a constitutional law before us today, we are not solving, unfortunately, the issue of financing, not the question of tasks. According to our assessment, it would make sense when we touch on changes to the Constitution, as in that highest legal act, to do so in a thoughtful way, in particular in a way that will later reflect on the implementation of the constitutional provision. If not, the whole story could be helped by a calvary in the field of local communities. We all know that since the first elections to local authorities in 1994 and to date we have almost yes in Slovenia, I can use the term inflation of municipalities or local communities. There is no year in this country without a single referendum being held in some local communities in terms of secession, association with another local community, and not least for the establishment of a new congregation. There is no year when the National Assembly does not meet with a change of law, it should be about local self-government or the law on the financing of municipalities. It is not a year away from enthronement that the congregation would not want a new province to point out the problem of financing. Why am I saying this? Because at least in the National Party, we don't want the same story to happen with the provinces. We believe that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, if we want to follow the second level of the local community or the concept of decentralisation within our country, should record the number of provinces in the Constitution. Why the Constitution? Because the Constitution represents a different substance in every way in the field of change, it is a constitutional process, as it is caused or followed by a legislative procedure. By writing down the number of provinces in the Constitution, we would take that step forward, to which we are all taking the floor. Also, according to our assessment, the record of the number of provinces in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia would prevent the daily political tendency for the new organisation of the provinces. Only then could we approach the tasks and, above all, finance. Unfortunately, in the context of the constitutional procedure with the aforementioned articles, which are before us today, the will of the national party has not been taken into account, so we will not support the constitutional law, we will not support these constitutional changes, because we are confident that if we want to make a real effort to establish the provinces, and especially such provinces, which in the eyes of citizens and citizens or residents and residents of this province will endure and have confidence, we should come from tasks, from financing, and above all the basis would be to write down the number of provinces in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We will not, of course, support the proposal in the National Party. We estimate that it is only one of the political moves that the individual state of organisation of the individual province in this year on the basis of this pace and the content of the work we have in the national assembly will not yet be achieved. And if you are pursuing the sole objective of changing the Constitution, not establishing the province, then this is a poor pursuit of the goal. And at least I personally assess that we are not half-men in the National Party, so we wanted to proceed to such constitutional changes, which would have resulted in a province in Slovenia in this mandate, so that the provinces would live to have sufficient support in the form of funding, in order to have sufficient tasks to satisfy the interests of those citizens and citizens living in this province. I sincerely hope that the National Assembly will see its error as soon as possible and that the way of establishing the provinces, such as the provinces, and not least the citizens and citizens, deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Good bye to all of you! Initially, the minister explained what constitutional law brings, and this need not be repeated. However, we must say what relationship we have drawn up in individual groups to this government proposal and why. The DeSUS Group is considered to support and vote on the bill. Especially because the project has been implemented so far by a project of local self-government, the torso. If anything, it is this project that is the torso, something that is not finished or something that even went the other way. Even though some experiments have already been mentioned today, but if we went along such an inductive path, in order for individual municipalities to decide on the establishment of the provinces, it might happen that they have different statuses, and it might even happen that there are white foxes in Slovenia that do not belong anywhere, so there would be some kind of intermudiation. The reason for not establishing the provinces is likely to be found both in the absence of political will for this and in the formal obstacles, because the individual provisions in the Constitution are so rigid that they prevent a rational way of creating the landscapes. What we could call a course in the opposite direction, and what the government actually acknowledged as mistakes, I will try to list briefly. It may be necessary to point out first that the government has acknowledged some weaknesses, mistakes and mistakes in the past, for if we fail to say what they are, then we are not ready and able to correct them. What is indisputably written in the material and what the government has written down is that it went in the wrong direction, that is, on the reverse path, to the continuous decomposition of Slovenia's political administration, that it was about overly crushing Slovenia and that, as it says, our congregations have too weak capacity to perform their functions to perform them. We also took a different path from a path called subsidiarity. The government states that the municipalities are underlying because of their lack of power and fragmentation, they have been overly held in the center of the country, and financial resources have also been too low in the center of the country. Let me quote - so, after memory - what the government said in the paper: "And as a result of all this was excessive, over-centralisation and an ever-increasing of differences in development in individual regions of Slovenia." Of course, the adoption of the Constitutional Law will not change this, but it provides the possibility to prepare all relevant acts that will allow for a more even development of Slovenia, which will allow the municipalities to actually have those powers that go with them, and the appropriate means for their implementation, so that some may even be linked and we will have them in the future less than the current 210. It may also be that differences in the development of individual landscapes will continue to grow, but not as steeply as ever and that the higher-a-vis centres will decrease. It is not about preventing anyone from faster development, even those most developed today, but it is also necessary to catch up with those who are two or more paces ahead of less developed regions. Some parliamentary groups had reservations about the adoption of a proposal to amend the three constitutional articles, but although in individual parts these reservations also have a bit of rationality, the adoption of their reservations would mean, above all, that this process of landscape formation should be halted. That is why we are not in the DeSUS Group of Members, and that is why we will support the amendment. To change the Constitution as soon as possible in order to change the rigidity of certain constitutional provisions in order to strengthen local self-government at the first and second levels and to ensure a more balanced development throughout Slovenia. The prospects for positive development are, we hope, as we hope today, enough favor, that we will adopt a constitutional law, that there will be enough affection and consent later on, that we will be able to adopt the laws that are yet to follow and that will actually talk about what congregations, what financial resources will have, how many provinces, what and who will judge them. We will vote in favour of the bill in the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u9	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members. Member Branko Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. The draft constitutional law on amendments 121., 140., and 143rd Articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are pleased that we have finally reached the moment when we have completed the second level of local self-government needed. As broad a consensus as this time for these constitutional changes, which do not happen very often is extremely high and in most of the parliamentary groups, colleagues and fellow Members supported the intention to amend the constitutional law. Why is he actually going? Perhaps those who somehow experience this necessary decentralisation think much more about the state’s injustice. Perhaps, perhaps with this change in the constitutional law we will really come to what we all want to see in order for Slovenia to develop more evenly, since just 143rd Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is very important here. It is important, as the minister himself has pointed out, that he is giving the congregations some volunteering on how and which they will unite in the province. Of course, many of us are also thinking about how many provinces would be valid to establish, but it seems important to us in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we first deal with these constitutional changes and then also tackle the number of provinces. Once the second level of local self-government has been completed, there will also be a greater opportunity for many places in Slovenia to draw on European funds. It is also important to stress that the conclusion of the second level of local self-government will give many places in Slovenia the opportunity to participate in the resolution of those necessary things that may not have been at the moment. Slovenia is very diverse and it is with this diversity that it is necessary to stress here that these changes are a decentralisation of the country. In the case of decentralisation of the country, this also means that certain powers, which are now at the state level, are transferred to local levels. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, from the beginning to this point, we have raised a number of dilemmas and a number of questions about how to make a contribution that many citizens and citizens would like to make. However, as has already been said, some parliamentary groups have also had concerns. As it is said, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a constitutional law amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u11	Thank you. Ambassador Lovtijar Bebler will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today's review of the proposal for a constitutional law on the basis of a proposal to amend the Constitution of 72 Members represents an important shift in the history of the constitutional order of the Slovenian State and the Slovenian state itself. Especially for its regulation of local self-government. Not only because the change in the Constitution has been prepared for so long or so many years, but mainly because the adoption of these constitutional changes will be followed by major changes in the structure of the Slovenian state's regime and its local self-government. With the introduction of the provinces, the country will be placed on new foundations. Political decision-making will also move to a second level of local self-government or to the provinces. The text of the constitutional law that is before us today is not just a political compromise; it is also an expertly solid solution, which will bring the constitution to a great deal in the work governing local self-government. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are therefore pleased to be able to adopt, by consensus or by very large, a proposal for a constitutional law. Finally, we are pleased that we have proposed similar changes to the Constitution by the Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and Social Democracy, and in some ways this proposal of the Constitutional Law has been amended in a way, in the light of the minorities, by our proposal. At the same time, I would like to point out that in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, in previous mandates, we have been working towards a constitutional solution to this problem, despite the fact that we have repeatedly faced opinions that have proved inadequate today that the province can be established without constitutional changes. It would work in theory, but in practice we are witnessing that this was not the case. We are pleased that both the opposition parties and the ruling coalition have succeeded in achieving what we have failed so far, a reasonable compromise. Once this constitutional law has been passed, we, as legislators, have a hard time working to properly incorporate constitutional provisions into laws that will enable the provinces to live. We therefore propose that we end with the ownership of the merits for the establishment of the provinces before they were actually established, since we have all set ourselves a common goal to draw up, through the coordination of the Constitutional Commission, the text of a constitutional law acceptable to a large majority in the National Assembly. We've got a lot more nuts ahead of us than these constitutional changes. The proposed amendments to the Constitution do not specify the number of provinces, do not specify tasks, funding, competences and other matters. We need to arrange the latter in appropriate laws. To deal with and adopt these laws, we expect a similar way of coordinating and seeking consensus, and we hope that, as we have done so far, we will be able to listen to the views, warnings and suggestions of the profession that have been, in a loving way, to help us prepare this constitutional law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u13	Thank you. Ambassador Bojan Kontic will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, distinguished Minister with colleagues, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will vote in favour of the proposed amendment of Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with our long-standing efforts to introduce a two-stage local self-government. By amending these three articles of the Constitution, we will make it possible to create landscapes or allow the procedure to be opened for the preparation of the necessary legislation. In fact, we are at the very beginning of a very difficult path, which must ultimately be reflected in the satisfaction of all who are aware or aware of the importance of regionalism. Many words were said about the urgency of the provinces, but struggles have been made in the past. We can look for reasons both in the executive branch and in the legislative branch. In particular, I would like to point out that, in the last term, we had all the conditions for us to begin the procedure. Unfortunately, we have encountered misunderstandings or even opposition both within the then coalition and the opposition. And when we look at the text of the Constitutional Law proposal today, it is only a matter of difficulty that we see significant differences, except that this time we have written that the process of establishing the provinces must ensure the participation of the congregations. As I said, this is the first step in a difficult and long-term process in which it will be necessary to find answers to the questions we want, what are their responsibilities and how they will be financed alone and otherwise. In doing so, we cannot shake off the fear that this time, as in the case of the municipalities, we can focus primarily on finding the answer, how many landscapes and where their centre will be, and the content of their tasks and competences will become a marginal theme. In the Social Democrats Group, we believe that the basic task of the provinces is to combine the development potentials of the individual environment and to overcome the idea that decentralisation of the country is primarily an additional cost. The provinces must become an important factor in the introduction of the so-called more coherent regional development while at the same time enabling the provinces to decentralise public administration. In doing so, it will be necessary to answer the dilemma of what provinces. Are they going to be amphibians or not? In addition to decentralisation, the provinces will allow for the application of the subsidiarity principle, which will allow tasks to be carried out at a level that ensures maximum efficiency and that the state will only assume certain tasks when lower levels are not effectively carried out. In the current text of the amendments to Article 143, we provide for the adoption of only one, i.e. a roof law with a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present, a law that will also determine the area, seat and name of the province. This will also ensure the participation of the congregations. How, we'll define by law. Certainly, though, it is essential that the provinces do not become an insurmountable or insurmountable foreigner established between the country and the congregation. However, it does not contain a proposal to amend Article 143 of the Constitution, which required the law on the financing of the provinces to be adopted by a two-thirds majority. Here we have been warned in particular, or also by the profession, that it is pointless that the law on the financing of municipalities is passed by a simple majority, and that the law on the financing of the provinces by a two-thirds majority is not in this amendment. Today's adoption of the amendments to the three articles of the Constitution makes it clear to us that without the changes adopted today, the establishment of the landscapes is not possible and was not possible in the past, because not in the way we want them to be, and the professional public is behind them, not only political. By doing so today, we are putting an end to the process of establishing the landscapes along the way from below. We have had quite a few suggestions from local communities in the past. The Koroška, or Koroška Province Act, has already been mentioned and has remained or is stuck after the first hearing in one of the previous mandates. Of course, I remember most vividly the proposal for a law on the Savino-Shale province, of which I am the first-signed Member. We also discussed this on the working body and found that the situation is not favourable to the establishment of the province, because the legislation is not prepared so that it can be established on only one part of Slovenia. That is why these efforts have been "frozen", now that the three articles of the Constitution have been amended and the local self-government legislation on second-degree local self-government has been announced, and this proposal will not become meaningless, but will somehow find its place within government proposals, I hope. The Social Democrats' Group will therefore support the draft amendments agreed upon by each other, which has exceeded the narrow delimitation to the position and opposition. She will support him in her conviction or perhaps better said in the expectation that this time we are all serious. Even all those who have announced support for regionalisation before each election have, more or less skillfully, avoided every attempt to make words an act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u15	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Nova Slovenije Group. Member of Parliament, Anton Kokalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. From the perspective of the New Slovenia Group, the process of establishing the provinces does not take place in the spirit of decentralisation, but on the contrary. Therefore, from the start of the procedure, the New Slovenia Group has been detained for the establishment of the provinces in this way. The fact is that the decentralisation of this country would be possible with the present text of the Constitution. This, of course, requires the consent of the municipalities, which is only right if our legal and political bases still insist on respect for the principle of subsidiarity, to which we are also bound by several international instruments and treaties. In principle, the New Slovenia Group does not oppose the establishment of the provinces, which is not the subject of a coalition agreement. However, it requires prior harmonisation as regards the process of establishment, tasks and funding, which is essential for decentralisation. The New Slovenia Group did not require prior adoption of laws, as presented by the Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission, Mr Gaber. That's not true. But only a political alignment based on the European model, until everything is coordinated, is nothing coordinated. That is, until the content is harmonised, it is pointless to accept constitutional changes for so long. And we're pretty sure that's what's gonna show up. The content of the constitutional changes that is currently in the process is not sufficient, in our view, since it is likely that we should add an amendment to another article if we are to achieve consistency of this constitutional change in the substantive sense, say, 153rd or 138th paragraphs. Nor does it convince us at this point to refer to the professional public. This is paid for in Slovenia. Each government hires about the same experts and writes what is ordered. European funds, of course, referring to European funds is not an argument. At this point, we do not know by what principle and by what system the European funds negotiated for 2007-2013 will be distributed. If we count on the provinces, given that all the predecessors referred to the hard work ahead of us, it is said that exactly what the New Slovenia Group expected in the process of adopting the Constitution, and even more so in the process of harmonising the starting points, how this decentralisation would take place, the pumping will be practically half past and it will be impossible to adapt the structures if the provinces are established. Thus, the reference to easier drawing on European funds is not an argument for constitutional change. Above all, it is a worrying understanding of the concept of decentralisation in Slovenia. The provinces themselves do not mean decentralisation if we understand that this is a greater and easier access for individual citizens to manage common matters as well as to common funds. This can even mean a barrier, it can mean greater centralisation. That is why it is so important for us to talk about the number of landscapes, how they will be composed, and how they will be established. However, constitutional changes, as I said, are now extremely unclear and are also very far from the basic principle of subsidiarity, which is a very important principle for us. The history of the congregations is not dangerous in the sense of excessive numbers of lands, but it is dangerous in this sense that we will start establishing the provinces before we know what they will serve and how they will work. And that's the problem with the congregations. The system and role of municipalities has not been sufficiently clearly defined and is therefore now a problem. Therefore, by the New Slovenia Group, we would like to point out that this procedure, according to our assessment, is premature. It would be worth waiting at least another year to agree on substantive matters. If these substantive matters mean decentralisation, then the Group of Members would support such changes in a uniform manner. Our view is that by properly dealing with the contents of the landscapes in the past it would be possible to establish the landscapes by now, because if the municipalities and the state were to be brought into a substantive alignment, the change of the constitution would not be necessary at all. Members of New Slovenia will vote on changes in their conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u17	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, Ambassador Josip Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-worker and co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The constitutional law under consideration introduces three constitutional changes, namely the issue of public powers, the area of the transfer of the tasks of the State to the municipalities and the area of the provinces as independent local communities, which is most important for the future coherent regional development of self-government in Slovenia. The amendment to Article 121 of the Constitution is necessary as both the practice and the legal theory have drawn attention to the inadequate provision of Article 121(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in particular. However, the second paragraph of this Article is also inadequate as it uses a unique terminology for legal and natural persons to whom it is possible to transfer the performance of a public administration function. The proposed solution, which we are considering, is so appropriate from a legal point of view, while at the same time allowing for the further transfer of certain tasks of the administration to NGOs and other organisations, which is important in particular in view of the further opening up of the state administration and greater competitiveness in the performance of individual tasks. An important novelty is also the possibility of granting public authority under the law, which has not been possible so far, as public authority can only be granted by law. This solution also contributes to greater flexibility in the field of public authority in the work of the public administration, stressing that powers under the law should be granted only where necessary in the nature of the matter possible and important. Article 140 of the amendment of the Constitution sets out the work area of the self-government local communities and, in this context, also the conditions for the transfer of individual tasks of the State to self-government local communities. The proposed solution to the law means that in the future it will be possible to transfer the individual tasks of the state administration to the municipalities without the prior consent of the individual municipality. However, of course, it remains a condition for the State to provide adequate and necessary resources for these tasks. The current provision certainly prevented the transfer of tasks to the municipalities because it required their consent. Much of the country's tasks would not be passed on to the municipalities in the future, as a large part of these tasks will take over the future regions, but it is important to stress at this point that it will be necessary in the future to ensure that, when individual national tasks are transferred to local communities, municipalities or provinces, we provide sufficient resources to carry over these tasks to these two levels of local self-government. However, both of these amendments relate at least indirectly to the fundamental amendment introduced by the constitutional law under consideration. The Republic of Slovenia has already decided on local self-government by adopting a new constitution. The fact is that the concepts of local self-government were different at the time of the formation of the Slovenian Constitution, to which the experience of the municipal system in the previous country was also important. Such a situation has caused the regulation of the wider self-government communities in our Constitution to be inadequate or not conducive to the establishment of the provinces as well as the wider self-government local communities. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have been stressing the importance of local communities and local self-government as an extremely important aspect of a democratic state all the time. For the local community allows people in their territory to regulate those areas of social life that directly relate to the lives of the local population. For the better life of the inhabitants, it is also important to regulate the landscapes as well as other levels of local self-government to regulate areas that exceed the capacity of local self-government at the level of the municipality. The proposed amendment regulates the status of the provinces and ensures that all areas in the Republic of Slovenia will be included in the provinces, which was not possible under an existing arrangement based on voluntary assembly of municipalities in the province. The establishment of the provinces in Slovenia is necessary. We are talking a lot about coherent regional development, but the shifts in this direction are significantly too small. It is necessary to start concrete measures towards ensuring equitable regional development and to establish the provinces, as Members of the Slovenian People's Party believe, is undoubtedly an important step in this direction. Just as the administration of municipalities has made significant progress in all parts of Slovenia, we are confident that the establishment of the provinces will also ensure a certain degree of decentralisation and a more equitable development of our country. Constitutional change is therefore necessary and important, but certainly not sufficient. In the Slovenian People's Party, we expect that changes to the Constitution will also be followed by all the necessary laws that will enable the establishment of the provinces and, consequently, lay the groundwork and foundations for a more equitable regional development of the country. We expect the government to simultaneously put in place all three laws governing the establishment, scope and financing of future provinces. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will fully support the proposal for a constitutional law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u19	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The assembly will first hold a debate on Article 1, Article 2 and Article 3 of the first section and a discussion on the second section, and then a full debate on the proposal for a constitutional law. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the second section of the draft constitutional law. I give my word to Dr. Paul Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Since the adoption of the Constitution in 1991, one of the issues has in fact remained unresolved, and this has been a matter of social territorial organisation as well as political territorial organisation. At that time, the view was that Slovenia did not in fact need an intermediate or so-called intermediate level, to be called a province or something else, we have now taken over the provinces or, if it should come to this level, it should be a matter of voluntary integration and assembly of municipalities. Anyone who dealt with the issue of regionalism and regional development was, of course, clear that such intermediate levels would never occur, as the interests of local units were too diverse, including the interests of the state, and so it was not expected that they could manage an idealistic, just spontaneous, if you want, self-government linkage from above on a voluntary basis. Some advocates of a centralised country, on the one hand, and advocates of small municipalities, on the other hand, have also advocated the view that this intermediate level is not necessary, as Slovenia is too small for a more complicated territorial division and we can meet all our needs directly in local communities, either with neighbours or with the country. The fact is that later development has not given us or in the world the same perspective. The fact is that everyone has forgotten or forgotten that intermediate levels already exist in Slovenia. They exist as real social, territorial entities. There is a fact that according to the locality of the place, the congregation is expressed and felt by members of a wider superlocal environment, one way or another. And in this environment they also mostly live, mostly work, and mostly solve their local problems. No one is dependent anymore, or no one can be connected within their own congregation. The fact that they belong to be considered mammals, to be Styrians, to be anything, Gorenjeks, whatever, already expresses this regional affiliation. The fact is, there are regional entities. The question is whether we recognize them or not. And this was also a fundamental issue in the drafting of this law. At the same time, I would also like to point out that, in my opinion, the debates have somewhat neglected another important issue, which is always linked to regional development and territorial regionalisation, or we would call this division into the provinces. And this is the important role of the regional centres. Regional centres will take over a certain function which will represent a specific development function to promote and promote development. In this light, it is necessary to know that in itself the landscapes will not provide for everyone with rapid development or even for all balanced development, but will provide something else. The landscapes will allow something different, namely that the responsibility for development will be more, I would say, in the hands of local and supra-local factors, that differences over the years can be shown in the fact that some of the provinces are more and more innovative, more development-oriented, others may be more protective and so on, that they are aware of those landscape differences that we know today in all the countries where they have similar forms of regulation. In addition to the competition in the economy, there will be competition in regional development. You need to be aware of that. And this is what I think can cause some new dynamics in the further development of Slovenia. The needs for a broader social territorial framework, which will be represented by the provinces, are also linked to the fact that sociologists would say that socio-space interdependence is increasing or spreading. The new information, communication technologies make people more mobile today, connect more, create functions in larger spatial units, and the social territorial organisation must follow. At the same time, municipalities and small local entities can communicate globally, directly at global level. And this is the advantage that, in fact, through the Constitution and through law, we must give Slovenian territorial entities, social entities, at their disposal to take advantage of it. Maybe they won't. All right. Even today, in terms of national solutions at the supra-local level, the province is also a form of a local community, but in a sociological or geographical sense it is a supra-local entity, from waste management, from water supply and other functions, such that they are more rationally organised at above local level, from spatial planning and so on. As has already been said, constitutional change is the first step. The most difficult are still waiting for us in the drafting and adoption of the law on landscapes, powers, social territorial division will be extremely sensitive to the number of these provinces. I think it will be equally sensitive to any other question, that when we introduce the provinces in Slovenia, there will be some unintended consequence. And this is that the entire administrative arrangements of Slovenia will be more expensive. I think that we must come from the point of view that the administrative political arrangements of Slovenia with the provinces must not be more expensive. If we add up all the administrative costs of the country, municipalities and similar entities and calculate them when we move to a new state, these costs must not be higher. This is a commitment that should be made independently of the fact that we will not adopt the law on the financing of the provinces by a two-thirds majority, which I agree that everyone should commit to. If not, we'll take a step back. We'll have something that'll be too expensive, and that needs to be taken into account. That is why I would end this performance by calling on the government, calling on the Minister to consult all the parliamentary groups from the beginning, regardless of today's partnerships, initiatives, coalitions and the like, in fact, everything he has at his disposal is also possible via the Internet, in fact, he should do so anyway, but the initiative is here to give everything he has at the same time to all the parliamentary groups to connect with them and to prepare, if possible, for the government to come with a law that we can also adopt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u21	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Willy Trofenic. [[He's not here.]] Member Milan Friday has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u22	Thank you, Vice President. I am joining those who are pleased to see that today we are creating the obvious conditions for us to continue the procedures that have, in fact, gone a long way in fact, failed to create the landscapes by adopting these three articles of constitutional change. I believe that, at this moment, we can truly find satisfaction in some way when we are experiencing an important stage, an important step in the development of these landscapes. We in LDS, you know, those of you who have been in politics for a long time, have always expressed the necessary and willingness to change the constitution. We've come a long way in the past term. Sadly, some who were then in the government or coalition have today, in another government or in another coalition, prevented the adoption of these constitutional changes. I am saying this because of this, not that I am cooking indignation, but because the public is aware that it was possible to do this before, but that it was obvious in the opposition, at the time, that the current coalition has matured to realize that they have a process and a time to accept these changes. In doing so, I think and recall what it looked like at the first hearing of the current Minister for Local Self-Government, which comes from this party, which has in the past slightly hindered these procedures. At the time, I was in a position to be a little harsher when I tried to read what he said at the hearing, but later he changed his thinking, so he changed his thinking. At the hearing, he felt hesitant about supporting constitutional changes or the idea that constitutional changes were important and necessary, or that he would rather remain in the interpretation given by the People’s Party all the time, that the provinces should be built from below. At that time, he felt hesitant, after a while this hesitantness ceased, and for the first time after about three months he stated that constitutional changes needed to continue the process of amending the Constitution. I am not saying this because I would say this to him, but because I see that in politics it is also possible to evaluate in its thinking, and Mr Minister has done it in a way that is right, in a state-of-the-art way, not because of the need and position of the party to which it belonged. When we accepted constitutional changes, of course, we should not forget what we did in the congregations, so when we crushed the congregations, when we worked in small congregations, when we were large, the city congregations actually reduced their power by separating small congregations. Here we had a puzzle when, in fact, this formerly connected environment did not find a way and a chance to cooperate. In fact, I think that the provinces give them a chance to become aware that they need to connect and actually have to communicate with each other, so that they can represent some political power in this Slovenian space, so that they can also represent economic power, which will be an accomplice to the country in the negotiation or implementation of those programmes that are of common interest and common potential. It is particularly important to mention the connection with regions bordering or organised in neighbouring regions for a long time and so far did not have the right interlocutor, at least some municipalities have not actually had the opportunity or the mandate to pair up structures such as those in Italy, such as Austria, as they do in Croatia, where this organisation has been different for some time than it is in the Slovenian space. That is why, at the conclusion of this, when I welcome the amendment of these three articles of the Constitution, I am warning and at the same time appeal to all those who will continue to prepare the basis for the regional organisation, so you will see how many provinces in the Slovenian space there must be so that you do not fall back into the same needs and the same political thinking and desires that these provinces must be as many as possible, that literally each city must have its own territory, but that you remain in the real framework of numbers that will be comparable to European landscapes, that is, numbers that will not exceed, at least after my assessment, at least 10, I personally believe that there are enough 8 in the Slovenian space, but if you ask me, even in this case, I am joining the church organisation, to a new organisation where the seven bishops are. But now it's a story to go on. In the LDS and personally, I will raise my voice for these constitutional changes, but at the same time I will closely monitor how the government will prepare elements and foundations for establishing the landscapes and where these political pressures will be too strong and we will also try to eliminate these political pressures, at least in the Maribor area, we are aware that some who do not want to be in some provinces need support. I'm thinking Ormož, and I think Ormož is a typical example of how we shouldn't force ourselves to attach ourselves to someone we don't belong to. I think the Maribor end has to connect so Ptuj, connect so Lenart, connect so Ormož. It doesn't sound like a pretzel, but I think it's better to know now and face it when it does. For once that much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u23	Thank you. The following is a statement by the Member of Parliament, Kristijan Janc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, co-workers, ladies and gentlemen! Maybe for an introduction I should fix my colleague Friday, the sixth bishop, not seven. A little awareness is generally useful. Secondly, I would be happy to support these constitutional changes in the law and I would say, finally after ten years of speaking with figs in our pocket, that we would have the landscapes such and different, nothing happened. Now I see that even my opposition colleagues like to remind me of the history of what it was, how it was, and that what it was doesn't burden me that much. Today we are here to make our present and future. I think that our responsibility for Parliament is here too, and I am very pleased that such a great political will in this Parliament has finally come between the parties once again, that we are together for this, except for a few exceptions, that we are taking this important step for what we are already talking about as a position as an opposition, a balanced development of Slovenia. Our mouths are full of words as to how we will do this, but we have not done much in this area to date. Let's face it, very little. The first step I see is this step, today's will to make these constitutional changes and finally to fight this centralisation that Slovenia has. I think that those who come to Ljubljana every day or even several times a day, we see that these differences are extremely large and this disease is severe for the Slovenian country. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the Constitution are certainly a step that these huge differences between the regions that still exist in Slovenia - statistical, twelve of them - we are trying to mitigate at least some of them. Of course, those who are successful are likely to be even more successful in the future, but those who are less successful, less developed and less able will probably get opportunities for faster and more efficient development, for the benefit of all citizens of Slovenia. I know and I believe that these differences, which you know well, are extremely large, but from personal income to housing, housing prices, where there are also one-to-five ratios in this small Slovenia, these are enormous differences. Not to mention all the other differences which the Slovenian public well knows and certainly the Members. I hope that this will make a positive step for these governments, for this policy, and not least for Parliament, to take this step responsibly. We know that today we will not change the whole story as such to follow the next steps with appropriate legislative changes, for which there will also be a need for consensus in the national assembly and the government to try to agree on the number of provinces, how and in what way, especially what appears to be the most important, financing and once again. Without that story, there'll be nothing. Without that, there will be an empty content that will not have any proper travel. But this, we know, will not be easy, it will be a demanding and difficult project, because giving something away to others is, of course, the hardest. It's easier to take than to give it away. However, I hope that there will be so much will in the government and also in Parliament later that we will come through with this. In Slovenia we have as many municipalities as we have. A lot of people don't agree, you don't think that's right. But I can speak from my own experience in the environment, where I come from, where some new congregations have also been established in these few years, and I can say that in most cases these are successful stories. In most cases, people have got what they wanted to get organized at micro level somehow better, easier to exercise their interests, faster to advance in the development of local communities, and that, I think, is very successful. However, I believe that with this upgrade or steps to be taken in the coming months, we will certainly do the rest necessary and also from the great Ljubljana, the center of Slovenia, we will contribute something also to the regions. I believe that just as the road from Sevnica to Ljubljana is the same as from Ljubljana to Sevnica, I believe that we can make something of this, too, for those of us who are driving to this Ljubljana today and because of the crowd we have nowhere to park. Perhaps there is room in Prekmurje, White Krajina or Posavje for parking officials and similar services, which, if any, could move from Ljubljana to Prekmurje, Posavje or elsewhere. I am very pleased that what I have always tried to establish will finally be realized, give them clear content, competence and funding. But I do know that the journey, once again, will not be easy, will be difficult and difficult. I also hope that then the government and the ministry - as one of the parliamentary groups previously suggested - will go from one to the other and find a consensus and, after all, will be able to coordinate as to the number of regions in Slovenia, whether it is 12 or 14 or whether it is less or less, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] However, I do not think that it is acceptable, probably for this House, for this coalition, as Mr Petek had previously proposed. [[...]] Dear Minister, after today's successful vote, I would like you to prepare appropriate legislation as soon as possible, and there will be some new positive indication from today's debate, what would be good if this legislation was prepared. I hope that you will come back to Parliament as soon as possible with these new relevant laws, which could also somehow be harmonised and confirmed that these first steps would also be successful in setting up Slovenian provinces, which are necessary and already too late for this Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u25	Thank you. In the meantime, young visitors joined us on the balcony. Good afternoon. And we are continuing the debate. Member Stana Pike has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u26	Thank you. I must also express my sincere satisfaction that this national assembly, almost all the parliamentary groups, have gathered so much wisdom to support these constitutional changes. Indeed, as we have heard many times today, this is the first step toward establishing the provinces. But the first step started, and it's a very important first step. You agree yourself that things are taken step by step, thoughtfully, intelligently, and then you can maximize the good results. I think it's high time we accepted these constitutional changes, that we've missed a lot of time, and that's because, in my country, they bring decentralisation. We know what decentralisation means. Decentralisation means more balanced development. That's what I think all Slovenians are - from first to last. The intermediate level, which is also very important to the European Union, although we have heard today that this is not the main cause, of some, it is not the main one, but it is very important. Some municipalities are very small and it will be very difficult to get through to European funds, but the provinces can be an intermediate article that combines the interests of major municipalities for specific projects, and we can perform extremely successfully to the European funds, which we know will be € half a billion over the coming year. Most likely we will have problems to take advantage of and we will be very successful if we can use these funds and I think that the establishment of landscapes is also one of the basic elements so that we can make good use of these funds and take our society to development. We all know that the municipalities are a better consumer of resources than the state. It's already in tradition, it's in the whole world. I think that the landscape is also more likely to listen more to the municipalities than to the intermediate level and that public money will be spent more wisely and rationally. Of course, there are problems here as well. In the field, I was warned, what the administration, what this will mean for the increased costs of the state. You yourself agree to establish the provinces by transferring some of the powers from the country to the provinces, part of the authority from the congregation to the provinces. But not only the powers, but also the money that is spent on this and also the staff that will not increase the administration, that the administration will not go to the detriment of the economy and development. I will stand alone against overly wasteful administration or the establishment of landscapes just to establish them. The provinces need to get their content. And only then will the provinces have the right effect. I think it is high time we were going to establish the landscapes, but of course we must be very careful and consider carefully every thing we will accept in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u27	Thank you. The next panellist is Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! It is also a nice greeting for the youngest visitors to this meeting of the National Assembly. Welcome! Amendment of the Constitution is an extremely important event that does not happen every day that does not happen every year, but changes must be extremely thorough. I am convinced that this time spent in this area has been a long time, that it has been well spent and that all these debates in these years are also a good basis for us to come to this final solution, to change the constitution in this area, in the area of the establishment of the landscapes, because it has proved to be in the past years, we can say to the decade that in another way it cannot come to the establishment of the provinces, even though it would also endeavour to establish the landscapes even within the current constitution. I am also of the opinion that, in the context of the current constitution, a consensus that is needed both at national and local levels to do so would be possible. However, it has been shown, unfortunately, that this is not possible, and therefore this consensus is both between the coalition and the opposition, which is achieved in this case, despite some concerns, that this consensus is, of course, welcome and that this consensus will continue between the coalition and the opposition will need to be sought primarily in this second step, which awaits us, which, in my opinion, is even more important and most likely to make the second step even harder, this is the preparation and adoption of the relevant laws that follow, both the laws on the creation of individual provinces, jurisdiction and, of course, financing. In particular, the competences will, of course, be extremely hard to deal with, and a number of them will also need to be changed by individual state offices or by individual ministries, in order to allow this transfer to be possible, an effective transfer of tasks to this second level of local self-government. Of course, it also seems important to me that if we have in some environments exclusively in mind, it is important that we get the seat of some institutions, the authorities of the province, so we have done everything, of course we will do very little to decentralise Slovenia, if we are going to establish 14 or not know how many new centres in Slovenia, without taking care in these provinces of all parts in an even way and for the equal responsibility of the individual regions of all these new provinces responsible for the development of the whole province. Of course, it is essential that, by establishing individual landscapes, we give the opportunity to exploit the specific potentials of individual areas. And finding these potentials in individual provinces will, of course, be the greatest tasks. However, it is not that we all stumble in the same direction as it may have been in many cases in certain areas. Each of the municipalities, I don't know, is looking for similar or even the same developmental possibilities. And in the end, it is not possible for any of the congregations to develop. As already mentioned in the introduction by the representative of our Group, of course I will also personally support these changes. I would say that, with the greatest joy and expectation, I expect, of course, a debate on the laws that will follow this change of constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u29	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Ferri Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. A respected minister with a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleague, a respected young man! First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that there has been this agreement - at least so far - on the Constitutional Commission and a rather great unity between Members and Members on a proposal from the government. This joy, this satisfaction is so much greater, because I am the fourth term here in this National Assembly and, in fact, in all four mandates, we have dealt with the issue of organising regions or landscapes or whatever, the terms together with colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately we did not have a large enough majority. If I recall correctly, my colleague Potrč will be able to correct me here and those who were already in that term in the National Assembly, my colleague Moja, in 1994, when we passed the Law on Municipalities, that we had a parallel procedure also with the law or the proposal of the District Act. And then it's because of the debate and the struggle about how many thefts there would be, the tendency was even that there would be as many as there were in the congregation at the time, I think there were originally 62, and then this matter fell. And if we had accepted some form of congregational integration at that time, I am sure that development would have gone on differently and that we would not have been as far behind as we are today. We're so far behind, colleagues and colleagues, I'm not going to go back much, because it's infertile, but we're going to wake up the historical memory. We have been so far behind that the Roman Catholic Church has overtaken us in regionalisation, that I say what I consider to be positive because it has clearly realized that there are strong arguments for the establishment of three new bishops and fortunately also the bishops in Pomurje, because we have been taking a long time for the province of Pomurje and there is also a new archdiocese in Maribor. The early establishment of the provinces is, in my opinion, an important condition for a more effective policy of coherent regional development and better use of Union funds. This is not an argument, as some say, because it is not a condition that the Union would put in place to obtain funds. This counter argument has somehow operated in all these recent years. This is formally true, but the problem is at home with us, because we did not have landscapes or some form of regional organisation, we were not sufficiently effective in preparing good, large regional, economic, infrastructure and other projects. The question of interesting and voluntary association, which unfortunately prevailed for too long with some colleagues and also with some parties in this National Assembly, did not materialise, in practice, when individual municipalities connected on individual projects. That's good, but that's not enough. If we had a province before, it wouldn't be a problem for small congregations. Because the problem is not that they are small, because it can be positive if there is more initiative, good work, but there is a problem in connecting. And here let me mention the experience that I have as an economist and other, which you are a little bit more in years and then you have acted anywhere in the time of self-government socialism to say so. Something similar happened in the economy back then. At the time, official policy claimed that alpha and omega, such as a dogma, were considered to be the fundamental organizations of the united work, so-called, and that good companies, large systems, knowledge had to be broken down and the knowledge had to go out and spread. And this has had negative consequences both for cooperation, for business performance and also many companies have also failed because of this, good, large business. That is why I think it is now not five before the twelfth, but five after the twelfth last time, and it is good that this knowledge has penetrated and I hope that we will also support the actual proposals when voting. It is no coincidence that the European Union strongly encourages regions and their role, both financially and in the governance system. Let me remind you of the Committee of the Regions, which, in addition to the Economic and Social Committee, is extremely important and we have an increasingly important role to play. A colleague of Breda has been working in him for some time and several Slovenian mayors have been working successfully in this body. This body is also defined in the proposal for a constitutional contract as a very important consultative body within the framework of the institutions of the European Union. Slovenia is one of the few, if not the only, except Luxembourg, countries in the European Union that do not have some form organised between municipalities and the state level. What's next and that seems essential to me. The decision to amend the Constitution, I hope that we will adopt it, is an important but insufficient condition for establishing and reviving the landscapes as soon as possible. I believe that we should speed up and adopt legislation as soon as possible, which has already been mentioned in the debate today. It is not necessary to deal with it in parallel with this decision that we are now taking, but should not be late. In particular, the powers, the financing, the number, the landscapes and other issues that are a condition for the province to be established. I would not agree that much work has not been done, especially professional work. Look back at those who wanted to look at it, years and years there were a series of very good analyses. Well, there were also different opinions, but as far as I was monitoring, there was still a single opinion among leading experts in Slovenia on key solutions to the organisation of the provinces. These analyses and this material are enough in the Ministry. I am convinced that the previous government or the competent ministry has already been working to this end with the very intensive current Ministry of Local Self-Government, that it is possible to prepare the necessary legislative proposals in a relatively short time and submit them to the National Assembly. Thus, my assessment mainly depends on honesty, on the good will and political and professional maturity of our Members and Members, or we will, and if we are ready to adopt the necessary legislation as soon as possible by the end of this year, and as soon as possible by the end of this year and what is necessary or not possible this year, and at the beginning of next year, and to make all preparations for the establishment of the provinces at the beginning of 2008. It would have been better if it could have happened sooner, but if it wasn't possible, then at least then. Finally, the argument that I should point out to the fact that it is essential that we establish them as soon as possible is, on the one hand, that it would not again, for such or other reasons, dissolve the matter and remain where we are, and in particular the fact that the new financial perspective of the European Union, which, as already mentioned, provides a very large amount of resources, will be much larger than before, but will again be the main problem, or we, how well we will be organised, to prepare enough good projects and to run with them and obtain funds, and, last but not least, it is not to forget that 2008 will be the electoral year in the second half, and if we do not all of these activities sooner, it can also have a negative impact on the very realization of what we will adopt by amending the Constitution and the legislation adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u31	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Robert Battelli. He's not in the hall. I give my word to Mr. Happy Hwauc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u32	Thank you. Your Honor! Although we have already had an opportunity in the constitution, more theoretically than it has proved, rather than practically, to establish landscapes and despite some serious attempts to create individual landscapes, the development of local self-government in practice has actually taken place only in the establishment of new municipalities or in the division of existing municipalities into two or more smaller communities. This development has also brought certain advantages. Some small congregations also experienced some progress when they were established. However, such organisation has also brought about certain shortcomings. It has been shown that some congregations, especially those small, simply cannot perform all the necessary functions. If I can just list them, let's say in the fields of culture, education, transport, health care, utilities, water supply, spatial planning and so on. Another problem that proved to be practical was that individual municipalities could not agree on certain common projects. As an example, I would like to mention the municipality of Maribor and some nearby municipalities, with known problems of transport to Celje. This is a typical example of how local self-government should not work. It is similar with a cleaning plant and there are probably more such cases if I stay only with Maribor and the surrounding area. The next thing that has been shown is that smaller municipalities have not been able to prepare quality and sufficient projects to run for EU funding. Another problem concerns cooperation with neighbouring countries or provinces in neighbouring countries. Our congregations were simply not equal partners or associates. That's why a lot of the projects went through. That something is wrong in Slovenia also shows that there are very many differences between different areas. If I stay in Maribor and around here I can find that average wages, I don't know, are 20% lower than in the center, that the gross domestic product is lower, that unemployment is almost once higher than in the capital. And I could count it. This actually shows that something needs to be done in the area of regional development, in the area of decentralisation, and I am sure that this amendment to the Constitution is the first step. There are, of course, many important and very serious steps ahead of us, but this is a process that I think will finally lead us to a desired goal. I do not agree with the view that this is an premature process. I think we are already very late with this and I welcome such a decision and also support that we are going into these changes as soon as possible. That's even possible. If we have so far witnessed local self-government division, fragmentation, these changes will mean some integration, some integration and, of course, I strongly support such processes, and I will be happy to support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u33	Thank you. I would like to invite Member Mirani to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u34	I recall the first discussions we had when we adopted the new Slovenian Constitution in 1991 and the differences that were then about the question of how to place the provinces, regionalism in the Slovenian Constitution. I remember that at the time there were even warnings and fears that if we introduce regions into the Slovenian Constitution, we will go to the federalisation of Slovenia and fear of vaccination and monetary aspirations in Slovenia. Fortunately, after 16 years, our common knowledge has also matured from the experience of municipalities that we have formed as local communities, including from the experience of the participation of these municipalities in the European community, including from our full membership, that regions or provinces in Slovenia are also necessary because of our interest, the interest of citizens and citizens, not because of the capricious politics. All of you today have mentioned the elements and reasons why they are needed, from European funds to the coordination of mutual interests, to the fact that there is no overdependence of small municipalities on the central government on all issues. There's probably no need and no point in overemphasizing it. I would like to believe that, this time, maturity for decision-making is sufficient, that we have the same luck and will as we continue to face difficult tasks in determining the number of provinces, their funding system and their competences, at least the part of the competences that will be transferred from country to country, because those who will merge from country to country can also be different. I wish that result had been achieved as soon as possible. At that time, in my firm belief, we will show whether after fifteen years the will has been achieved, whether the thorough debates we had at that time have indeed matured into the direct formation of the provinces, which, at least as many as the municipalities, will give us, I am firmly convinced, a new flight for the successful economic and social development of Slovenia, as well as for the more successful self-confident and, more than many say, a cheaper and better solution to the issues for the benefit of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u35	Thank you. To the word of Ambassador Franz Kangler. [[He's not here.]] Member of the Parliament, Dr. Slavko Gaber, has the floor. [[He's not here.]] I read those who haven't checked out. If any of the Members come to me, do so much as he says he will give up, neither will I read him. If the Members don't check themselves out, I'll read them. I'll keep this tactic going. I give the word to Ambassador Joseph Jerovska. [[He's not in the hall.]] Member Michael Prevc has the floor. [[He's not in the hall.]] Member Miro Friday has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Every reference to Parliament is made to history. Whether it is an adoption of the Constitution, whether it is an accession to the European Union, to NATO, and I think that this reference to our Parliament can be recorded in history after we are able to accept the provinces. Of course, the adoption of the Constitution is the first step in this, otherwise very important, but not the most important one in my opinion. We have a lot of work to do in the area of the adoption of this provincial legislation. According to my assessment, financing or the very tasks of the landscapes will not be as hard as dividing the landscapes themselves and at the final stage determining the provincial centres. I'm looking from my point of view. It's from the corner of the Carinthian region. This was already mentioned in the Koro Region, the Koro Region Act, which was already in the procedure in this Parliament. I think the proponents at the time realized that there was no great possibility that this law would go through to make this law work. The first obstacle was in the constitution, the second obstacle was that there might be chaos if there was one province and everything else in this country. Nevertheless, this proposal of the law, which was tabled by the Croat Members at the time, had this positive feature in order to encourage discussion around the division of Slovenia into the provinces and to point out to Koroška and the need for Koroška to have its own province. The 12 congregations in the region signed a letter of intent at that time and showed some political motive, some political maturity, that they intended to connect to the province, even though sometimes they kept figs in their pockets. This law was in a way also a defence against the various ideas of how Slovenia will join the provinces. As we know, ideas are very different, from one province, three, eight, twelve, there to 24. Recently, we still have ideas for Slovenia to be part of the diocese. You can, only before Koroška has to get her bishop. That's what I'm for. I hope that in the following procedures, we will have so much sense in this House, so much judgment, that we will not put Koroška on the road even in these provinces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u37	Thank you. The word has magic. Janez Kramberger. [[He's not in the hall.]] There's a word for Davorin Targeton. [[He's not here.]] To the word of the Member Joseph Školč. [[He's not here.]] Member Marjan Pojbich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u38	Your Honor! It seems important to me that we have already confirmed on the Constitutional Commission the proposed constitutional changes in the area of regionalism, which provide a good basis for the further process of establishing the provinces in the Republic of Slovenia. This is particularly important given that two attempts have already been made in this area. Although the establishment of the provinces has been possible until now, it has been left to the congregations, since it has been envisaged that they will decide voluntarily to join the provinces. However, the amendment to Article 143 of the Constitution provides that the provinces, as self-governing local communities, are to be established by law in order to carry out local affairs of wider importance. The procedure for the adoption of the law establishing the provinces will ensure the participation of the municipalities. How important the law will also show that it is necessary to adopt it by a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present, which should mean that the set-up network of landscapes will work in the long term and in a stable manner. By establishing the landscapes in Slovenia, we will have an internal breakdown of the country as they do in the vast majority of European countries. So far, the provinces have been a stranger to our country, and they have also been stopped from fighting between centralism and decentralism. The establishment of the provinces will, however, be a real decentralisation of the country and thus an important contribution to coherent regional development. Finally, some experts believe that we will also be more able to compete for money from European funds. It seems very important to me that a stable landscape is established in Slovenia to provide a high-quality source of funding for the performance of their tasks, so that they will get the right place not only across from the country, but also from other countries in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u39	Thank you, Comrade Pojbich. My word, Mag. Tomaža Štebeta. [[He's not here.]] Member Bojan Kontic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Already in the introduction, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, I announced my support for these constitutional changes. I cannot and do not agree with those who claim that the current regime under the existing constitution and the legislation we have is the basis for establishing the provinces. This has proved impractical in practice. In all the years since the introduction of local self-government, we have not been able to establish any provinces in Slovenia. However, if I exaggerated a little, there were proposals for the provinces to be established. From the region already mentioned today, to the one I have already mentioned in the debate, this is the Savinja-Shales region, or as we like to call it in our area of SAŠA. In the previous term, we have tabled a proposal for a law establishing the province of SASA, and this has not been the case. We have also tabled a proposal in this mandate, and even this time, if these proposed amendments were not to take place, according to my assessment of the province, even in particular Savinja-Salah, it would not be. As I said, we are now at the beginning of a very difficult project, at the beginning of a very difficult path, when we will actually only lay the foundations for second-degree local self-government. All the debates that follow in adopting the necessary legislation will show how serious we are today when we press or press a key to change the constitution. There will be questions about the financing of the provinces, and we know that the funding of the municipalities is not as it should be. Then the debate will move to the area of jurisdiction and the tasks of the provinces - the question of what we will transfer from the country to the provincial level, which are the tasks that go beyond the limits of the capacity of the municipalities, and we will bring them together at the provincial level for the benefit of all these municipalities that are merging into the provinces. Finally, there will be a lot of questions about how many provinces. Here we can have a repeat of the story that we experienced years ago, in 1994 and then every time we actually crushed Slovenia into small congregations and were very successful in doing so, but we did not establish a second-degree local self-government that was somehow interlinked. I do not mean to say that even with a smaller population, the congregations did not meet their expectations. Of course, they fulfilled them, since all those who were able to recalculate the financing of local communities defended the establishment of new congregations with arguments in their hands because the Law on Community Financing encouraged them to do so. It is also very interesting to note that we have always said that this does not entail additional costs. It's the same money when we split it, and everyone else gets it. This account just doesn't hold up, and it won't hold up in the future. I think that we will have to design the landscapes in this way - and today we will get this opportunity - to bring together all the development potentials at the province level, as already mentioned in the debate on behalf of the parliamentary group. That the economy will also be seen in this province, so that all other entities wishing to participate in the development of the individual local community, which we will call the province, will also be seen. If we remember, there was a lot of debate about when we talked about the so-called development regions, the statistical regions. At that time, we warned that perhaps number 12 is not the right one and that the development regions should be shaped as we will later create the provinces. Unfortunately, we weren't successful at the time, so maybe this time it'll be better. And as I began with the Savinja-Salech province [[SAMA]] Let me finish with her, too. The representatives of the local communities of this Savinj-Shales region are exemplaryly cooperating and shaping a real province that will meet all the conditions for it to live and add new value to the development, including the so-called more coherent development of our country. I am sure of my own success, but of course I expect or hope that we have been honest in all our efforts in this mandate to introduce local self-government, i.e. second-degree local self-government.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u41	Thank you. Member Branko Marinič has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, a number of your discussions have encouraged me to think more seriously about this proposal for a constitutional law amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution of Slovenia. I already said today, and the predecessor also said it was an important event. Constitutional changes do not happen very often. But when it comes to key issues in the country of Slovenia, of course it is also necessary to cut into constitutional changes. I hope, but above all, I wish that these constitutional changes would bring about what actually dictates a change. I very much liked the discussion by my fellow Member, Mr Ferri Horvat, who touched on the period quite a few years ago. It seems important to me his conclusion that, in fact, all the factors in the Republic of Slovenia must have the desire and sincere will to see constitutional changes that dictate later changes really come. The conclusion that a great consensus has been reached, a great deal of consensus, and also gives confirmation and hope that we are very united in this. I am also pleased by the concerns of some other colleagues and fellow Members, who find that it is still necessary to consider and that these changes are not good. If I were to say my views on this, I would say that I am very pleased to have started these procedures, and I am also a member of the Constitutional Commission, where I have deepened into these changes. In particular, I hope that real decentralisation will also take place in this context, but that there will not be an increase in the administrative work that we already have too far in relation to this decentralisation. We may also find and discuss too few times in this National Assembly that Anti-Bureaucrat programme, because many of us have already encountered various obstacles and perhaps many unnecessary administrative measures that citizens and citizens cannot ignore or fail to achieve if they want to achieve something. It seems very important to me that if we compare this territorial division, the regional distribution of other European countries we find that Slovenia has been standing here for quite some time or that there was no broader consensus needed to do so in the past. I think it is very important to emphasise this intermediate territorial level when looking for the possibility of European funding, particularly when we are talking about coherent regional development. I am convinced that we are now just ahead of this and that by closing the second level of local self-government, we are also going beyond what may now have been an obstacle for Slovenia to the achievement of the necessary criteria for drawing on European funds, which are specifically intended for coherent regional development. My colleague Bojan Kontič gave a good indication and also raised the issue of financing the landscapes. I agree and believe those who find that the way the municipalities have been financed so far has not satisfied the majority. Somewhere more, somewhere less, but on average, I think it's unsatisfactory. We may have an opportunity this time to truly be aware that we will be more consistent in the financing of the landscapes and that we would not be looking for a re-financing solution in the short term. It is now time for the government to have the time or the competent ministry of local self-government and regional development to take into account all those proposals from local communities that have in the past pointed out that the system of local community funding is not the best. They also had a lot of arguments for a better funding method, but I believe there was a set of other circumstances of ideas and facts that did not contribute to regulating the way local communities financed according to the measure proposed by the municipalities. Of course, we all know that many want much more than the real possibility of a state budget, but here I do point out that we have missed great opportunities for coherent regional development. I am returning to the fact that by establishing the landscapes, however, we will overcome this level and that when we talk about the number of landscapes, we will also be consistent. This is what it is about, just when establishing the provinces, in the number of landscapes, how we will divide Slovenia into provinces and how many will we establish both a means of financing and a means for more coherent regional development of the Republic of Slovenia. Whatever we look at and analyze, we can also find something that has remained open to many citizens and citizens until now: Will what you have been trying or trying to do actually happen in the Republic of Slovenia? Let Slovenia truly, with the conclusion of the second level of local self-government, become more coherent and secure those resources, on the one hand from the state budget for those places, for those investments where life in the Republic of Slovenia takes place even slower than some Slovenian cities and other places. This is what I sincerely want, and perhaps with optimism I can make the oldest Slovenian city one of the seats of the provinces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u43	Thank you. My word to Dr. Mitz Slavinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. With almost general support, which we have been able to hear in the debate so far, I too will support the change in the Constitution, with great expectations, even greater, because for the environment from which I come, often in the past, and even now we can hear the initiatives and the need for closer integration of the congregations, which are probably the most fragmented among us. We have already heard that it is not a problem in small congregations, but it is then a problem in the tasks and duties that these congregations have on the one hand and on the other hand in terms of the extent of the resources allocated by the State. The municipalities were often subject to new obligations without the provision of additional financial resources. On the other hand, we often meet in a specific area, a wider area that approximately corresponds to the now established provinces, no matter how many, 12, 14, there will be. If we stop somewhere in this context, in this area we see and meet projects that are of wider importance and for which the municipalities are more difficult to connect and unite because of their partial interests. This is the main advantage that I see and expect from the establishment of the landscapes. However, here we need to draw attention to some of the dangers that we will not yet define in this place by this law. Surely, though, it is reasonable and beneficial to think about it now and to warn. One is the powers and tasks and, above all, the content to be dealt with by future provinces. Specifically, what powers will be transferred from the congregations to the provinces and which from the country down to the province. This will have to be very meaningful and at this point, I think, is based and depends on whether the provinces will succeed or fail, whether these provinces will be their own intended purpose, or whether they will truly serve the faster development of some areas. The other thing is bureaucracy. When companies connect, then all employees with fear expect to continue because they know that the integration of two or more companies will result in an objective surplus of jobs. I'm afraid it's not going to be like that when we connect congregations to the provinces, unfortunately the other way around. It is therefore necessary to set clear targets and also restrictions on the employment of additional people and existing staff in such a way as to ensure that they are able to meet the needs of the provinces. Once again, I am setting an example in linking businesses in an economy based on such foundations as to ensure economic recovery and that we are trying to get as many responses as possible with as few cartridges. That's the rule there. That is why we also need to put matters on a state level so that we have synergies and that we will get better administration with existing staff. So, competences and how to organize not to spread and further complicate lives to people. Why I said "complicated lives" - I fear that these additional people will justify their jobs, then ask citizens for additional certificates and additional paths that they do not need to carry out now, and in the future they will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u45	Thank you. I would also like to invite Dr Ivan Žagar, the Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honors are here! I will briefly try to answer some of the dilemmas or warnings raised in the debate. I would like to begin with what Member Milan Petek in some way has challenged me, which unfortunately is not present at the moment, but nevertheless. I am sure that, in my case, there is no change in attitude as regards the establishment of the provinces. One of the basic objectives of our government programme and also of the government programme is actually to carry out the decentralisation of the country. However, the decentralisation of the country can be achieved at this moment in the true sense of the word only in a way that we establish the provinces. In this case, we welcome the solution that leads to the fastest establishment of the province, which is absolutely through a change of constitution, in short, the adoption of this constitutional law, which is here today in your debate. However, if this did not happen - I believe and I firmly believe - that it will come, but it is also necessary to take advantage of all the other mechanisms available, as regards the consistent balanced development of Slovenia, and these mechanisms have already been used by us at this time, not least we have adopted a new law on coherent regional development, which I think is largely unnecessary if we already had the landscapes, but we did not have them. And that is why we have sought parallel other solutions if there has not been a change of constitution in order to achieve decentralisation or the introduction of landscapes and, again, I repeat, consistent regional development. The second thing I would try to answer is that in any case it is the intention to take this step really further in terms of development itself, which means in practical implementation then to adopt the whole package of legislation that will finally establish the provinces. Today's change of constitution somehow opens the door. I am saying that this is also a litmus paper in politics, that it is serious about the creation of landscapes, but it will be necessary to have this consensus in the future when we actually come to a concrete adoption of laws. Our aim and purpose is to achieve this as soon as possible and, last but not least, we are already preparing this legislation in the service responsible for the drafting of legislation, but, of course, the dynamics themselves depend largely on the decision here and also on the direction of the drafting of legislation. I think that, at least as far as the speed of legislation is concerned, the matter will be significantly facilitated by today's confirmation. The very purpose is to essentially move powers from the state level down, along with financial resources, and it is not essentially intended to additionally bureaucraticise Slovenia, in some ways to additionally burden Slovenia with a new administration, but it is also intended to move at least one part of this administration for the needs of the upper-down provinces. The main purpose is decentralisation, that is to follow things from the state summit to the provincial level, to the second level of local self-government. Nor is it the primary purpose of the congregations to take responsibility far from this, but it should be pointed out that even now individual congregations or groups of congregations have found that some tasks would be significantly easier to carry out if they could be better connected. Therefore, this door of delegation of competence at the voluntary decision of the municipalities must be opened when transferred from below, but I repeat once again, the voluntary decision and those for whom the municipalities find it easier to implement them at this second level of local self-government. At the same time, I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that we do not want to make so many and so many provincial centralisms out of state centralism. The desire and ambition, of course, is this second level of local self-government to bring in such a way that it will somehow complement the first level of local self-government. Only in this case will we be able to talk about the next step as regards the development of Slovenia further. And for this reason, the municipalities must be given the right position so that they can in some way be equal partners in this story. Last but not least, as far as consensus is concerned, I believe that this consensus will also be maintained in the future when we come to a concrete adoption of legislation. It is our desire to maintain the broadest possible consensus that has been reached and, of course, we will also try to participate as much as possible in the process of preparing the legislation itself. I believe that, as has already been said, this good will after the establishment of the provinces will remain, when we actually reach this act, until the very establishment of the provinces by the adoption of the laws. Of course, I must stress in particular that I am primarily interested in content as well as in the concept of the province. It is important for me that the provinces are able to implement the content that will be intended for them, and that in this sense this will be an additional development moment, but this fundamental act, which is in some ways also a protector, as regards this consensus, which speaks of the number of provinces, the seats, the areas, however, will still need to be adopted by a two-thirds majority. I hope that by then this goodwill of this esteemed assembly will still be at this level, as it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u47	Minister, thank you. This concludes the debate on articles and a section of the constitutional law. However, I am opening a debate on a proposal for a constitutional law in its entirety. Who wants a word? My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Good-bye. There are days that are holidays, and there are events that make the day a holiday. And today, 20.6.2006 is certainly a holiday, since Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia are putting the last great stone of our statehood into our constitution. When we vote this, and I believe in the predictions that we will do this, of course, we will, by all means, achieve the desired decentralisation, faster development of Slovenia and even more evenly distributed across Slovenia. But of course, at least three wise decisions are needed below. One decision is the number of provinces, the other blue decision will, of course, be the jurisdiction of the provinces and the third blue decision, when these two are made, will, of course, be the financing of the provinces. I think we will be able to do this in this mandate with sufficient wisdom and good will so that we can do this for the welfare of Slovenia. Before you, Mr. Minister, is basically a Gordy knot, as it was before Alexander the Great, where the number of landscapes is hidden. When you twist the brittle sword you will receive with the constitution and cut this Gordi knot, I wish you a peaceful hand and a blue head to achieve that, in the future, the legislation will lead us to more appropriate and more equitable regional development. If we look at the area of education, if we look at the area of culture, what a landscape museum means, all the municipalities defend it, we place it on the burden of the country, no one wants to have it, but when we establish the landscapes, then this thing will only come under the influence of the province and then a great responsibility as to how this thing will develop, and the competition between the provinces, in which way it will be more successful. Personally, the number of landscapes is the heart of how we're going to develop. In fact, we all know that if we want to have some great centralisation, then every ruler of ancient Rome has continued to serve "divines et impera", divided Slovenia into more than 200 municipalities, and all politicians have peace in front of the congregations. Today, municipalities in political space no longer represent much more than they used to be. If we do Slovenians the same way with the provinces, then we will say that we lived in a very small "rural" that we had very small "rural" and that we had small "ruralities". I think that's why, Minister, your hand will have to be extremely calm and blue when it comes to cutting this knot into the National Assembly. It seems to me that we have somehow stuck this hand when we passed the law on coherent regional development. There, if we want to be similar to Europe, we have divided the whole country into two cohesion regions, which Europe allows us to do. So, for the number of provinces in two provinces, I know this is impossible in Slovenia. However, it would be possible, not long ago, possible if we had achieved, but we know mills in Brussels, so that we have three cohesion regions to have three provinces. Now we have put the provinces on the development regions, this is the third division in Europe, and this third division allows us a maximum of 13 provinces in Slovenia. I would only agree to this and defend these solutions to keep this number as small as possible, but that's another story. It's a celebration story today. Minister, you have succeeded, we have all succeeded here with an agreement that we will change the constitution and therefore allow me to end up somewhat pathetically saying, "vivat crescat floreat" mother Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u49	Thank you. Member Happy Friend has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister. I would repeat what you yourself have said quite often in this Chamber: a poorly prepared law, a poorly prepared content. Financing is not clear, the tasks are not clearly outlined, nor do we know what the tasks of the provinces, the powers, and the building of a house, the foundations of the house, without knowing what you will do on these foundations, opening up new problems and new dilemmas in the space, we may do a new injustice, follow European principles and principles on cohesion regions, and do two things in Slovenia, which will then. Dear Minister, I ask you how you will finance these provinces, what will you give in financial terms to these provinces, what will you give up, how will we finance and live these provinces, and what will I be interested in having these provinces under their jurisdiction? Of course I understand this matter, we are in an election year, we have a round anniversary of the country, we all want to be liked, but look, the law on local self-government has been for 15 years, and no one has remembered that it would be as serious and vehemently as we have been doing all day, or it is not strange. Going into it with some famous singer and some nice traveler, with nice wishes, with glory, and not knowing where you're going, it's a little weird. I don't think this mission here is well prepared by all of you to be too quick and premature, but it is necessary, I agree. We need landscapes, but not in this way, we go into fog and darkness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u51	Thank you. Member Davorin Targeton has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u52	I am joining my colleague Mohet, who has marked today as a historic day in the area of regionalisation, because we will succeed in what we have failed since the independence of this constitution, since the adoption of this constitution, which is not favourable to the provinces, although if we read it, is essentially Article 143. It is written that he wants to be favored, because he says that they can be established, but it is precisely the "may" that has made it impossible for all these years, or the change of the constitution, the Constitution itself makes it impossible to reach the landscapes. Now what worries me is the fact that we are taking a very small step forward. After many claimed that the landscapes could happen from below, when the profession warned that this was not possible, but they insisted on this, now that they were in position, probably only for prestigious reasons, but not for professional reasons, they listened to the expertise and actually prepared or agree with the proposal that we have always claimed is the only way to the provinces, that is to say, to change the constitution. If we take a close look at it, it was not really a professional question, it was a matter of clarity, it was a prestigious question. And what we are doing today is that the two-thirds quorum needed to change the constitution will turn all Members into a two-thirds quorum, with which we will regulate this area by law, the present Members will only be able to open the door half a step or take half a step to reach the provinces. While some have already predicted that this could happen, so on and so forth. I wish this because the introduction of the landscapes is not important at a symbolic level, it is mainly at the substantive level due to a balanced regional development, the same rate of development of the whole country, but it expresses a certain skepticism that this will still happen. As we have now been able to get everything complicated since independence on prestigious issues to change the constitution, we can get involved in the future by also adopting the law. Once this is done, all the parties will make sure that all Members of Parliament are in this Chamber, and then we need the same quorum as we need today to change the constitution. And today we are only talking about transferring the task of this constitution to a two-thirds majority marriage. At that time, we will talk about the whole content, as Members and Members are talking about today, the number of landscapes, the division of these landscapes and so on, and so on, and also about financing and so on. I'm not sure that we're taking such big steps, but it's true that this is one opportunity for someone to say, "Well, in our mandate we did something here," although we have to say that this is the quorum of everyone and that the LDS in this case did not change their position as opposed to those who were enlightened and changed their position and came to us, so that we can change the constitution today. I don't want to reduce this step that we're doing today, it's absolutely necessary, we know it all the time, but I'm not sure it's going to work, even though we want it to, at this rate forward. After all, all the dilemmas that have arisen since the beginning remain. I think that as far as the jurisdiction of the provinces, the method of financing the landscapes, can be found relatively quickly, there would be one form, because there are a lot of them in Europe, but we will certainly be most involved in the number. That's absolutely certain. Now most talk about twelve to fourteen, although I would prefer to talk about a small number of European comparable, truly powerful landscapes that could generate development and reduce this difference, which in Slovenia has only grown and only grew in its own time, but has not diminished.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u53	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Milan M. Cwickl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u54	Tomorrow, a year will be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Members and Members in the Liberal Democracy Club following the failure of negotiations on the next financial perspective to open a procedure to amend Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution. I am pleased that the day before this anniversary will conclude this process at this stage. Of course, this is just one step away from being able to fully shape the regions in Slovenia, so that we can fully use regionalisation as an important policy in the country itself. I myself assess that the constitutional law provides a good basis, is an essential condition for us to get effective provinces, is not yet a sufficient condition. And it is precisely the issue of effective action, in pronouns, countries in different forms at national, regional or municipal level - that is one of the fundamental development issues in Slovenia. We probably all agree that Slovenia, with 215 and more municipalities, will not be able to effectively care for the development of citizens and citizens in the coming years. We are looking for an answer in the law that will arise under this constitutional law, both the Government and the Members of the post. Many countries in the European Union note that small municipalities, as we know from the west to the east in Slovenia, cannot carry out those local matters of wider importance. No ordinary sewerage can be built for just one municipality. On the other hand, matters of regional importance which are in Slovenia, now that we are a member of the European Union, must be such that they are simply carried from Ljubljana to a lower level. In fact, it is very surprising that, for example, we sometimes treat certain officials of neighbouring Italian provinces as if they were officials of the Republic of Italy, and there is no need for that. The Trieste should simply talk to Kopro, Sežana, Gorica and the like about a series of development issues, but not that either the President of the National Parliament or the Head of State is accepted by our state officials. The creation and determination of the content of the work of the provinces will therefore be one of the tougher issues not only for the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, but also for the Minister, if they had it, for development, for the Minister, if they had it, for European affairs, for the Minister of Finance, if they were to be aware of these issues that they would have to be addressed, I see the Minister of Culture here and a number of ministers. Ministers of the Slovenian Government, if they equally understand the law on the provinces, as I understand it, we will have to think first of all about how they will direct and no longer decide on individual projects at the provincial level. Therefore, the text of the Constitutional Law and the explanation is, in fact, an appropriate text, offers a very large number of options. We are simply saying that in the provinces, matters of regional importance will be carried out, which would be determined by the state by law. And the content of this law, Mr. Minister for Regional Development, is not and will not only be the content of your department, the contents of the government of the Republic of Slovenia will be fully. Of course, I look forward to the promised law. In doing so, I would like to remind you that in a few months, three months from now, it will be more than a year before you promised that the marriage would come to the national assembly. When we discussed the law on the Savinj-Shale province, it was decided that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would pass the so-called provincial law in autumn 2005. Well, it's okay, but this marriage will come to the National Assembly a year later. A very interesting question will be how they will coordinate with the Minister of Public Administration on the large part of the tasks of the state administration, which are now being carried out by administrative units or special units of state administration on the ground, what will and will not be carried out by the province. Here, of course, they will encounter that classic problem, whether the minister, who has just built a small empire of administrative units, where he will almost decide on individual administrative procedures, will allow at least administrative units to retain their independence, or simply allow them to combine something on the ground in some of the "administrative districts" which would overlap with new provinces. Today we will adopt a constitutional law, I hope that there will be enough votes for it, and from now on every tolar will not only be consumed locally - once we step out of this hall when we step out of the government palace is every consumption, every tolar of local nature in Slovenia - from now on every tolar of regional nature. Therefore, it will be very important to discuss with the Minister of Finance what resources these provinces are supposed to have. What will happen to the income, what will happen with the property tax, whether the provinces will be able to introduce individual tax reliefs, or whether, as permitted by the municipalities, we can have "different amounts of tourist fees" in the term. These are all very important issues and it is good that we have written in the Constitutional Law that such a law should be adopted by a national assembly with a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present. I hope that the government will also be more centralised because of its own diversity, while others would be more decentralised, but managed quickly, at least it will harmonise itself with regard to the law itself. Finally, of course, the issue of how to treat the European Union is important. I do not understand, however, when some senior officials, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, speak of some Euroregions where Slovenia is supposed to be all over, but of some Italian or southern Austrian province, and perhaps some, as it is called, of neighbouring Croatia. It can also be defined by someone in the euro area. Euroregions, at least in the theory of economic development in Europe, are better known as groups of countries that work together because of some common economic characteristics in a given area. However, we expect the government to succeed in designing the landscapes at the so-called third level first in following what the government has promised itself. And the government has promised on some visits that we will get the Savinijsko-Shale region. This means, of course, that if, of course, they fail to achieve their objectives on Ptuj and the surrounding area, they would have 13 or 14 provinces in Slovenia. I believe that 14 is an appropriate number, not because of the number 14 but because, of course, this will be a particularly interesting discussion with European bureaucrats, why it is important in Slovenia for one number, instead of 13-14 provinces, to exceed the so-called criteria of the European Union. And if we succeed in this, then of course I think that it would be possible at the next stage - and therefore we have time, Mr Minister, by 2001 around when negotiations for the next financial perspective will seriously begin - but to reconsider your bad decision that, although you are Minister Žagar, you have demanded Slovenia in two cohesion regions. I would suggest that, somewhere in the law, we write down that in the National Assembly, with a two-thirds majority, we decide how these 14 provinces will unite in, in our view, at least three cohesion regions. Why three cohesion regions? It is probably not necessary to repeat, but simply because I do not believe that Ljubljana can decide whether you want to develop in Primorska or that Maribor will decide what will happen with the development in Ilirska Bistrica. I think this is simply necessary in relation to European bureaucrats. If you succeed at the level of three provinces to reach the number 14, if we write in a bill with a two-thirds majority that 14 provinces join together in three cohesion regions to draw European funds, then Mr Minister, I believe that there is no European bureaucrat who can prevent what is best for Slovenia, and this is in relation to the EU so that we can draw on cohesion and structural resources first in the period 2007-2013, and then, on the basis of the creation of three landscapes, achieve that Western Slovenia and Eastern Slovenia, as two major cohesion regions, will not be burdened in some way by the fact that the central region is Ljubljana and the environment simply above the European average. I think it is right that Slovenia develops fully. And it is right that we are making full use of cohesion and structural resources for Western and Eastern Slovenia until 2020. Like I said, we're adopting a constitutional law today. This constitutional law is an emergency. A sufficient condition will be to first coordinate within the government on the content of such a law, and above all, let you and the other ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia understand that from now on ministers can no longer think only about the effects of their decisions at the level of Slovenia, but what their decisions will mean for a particular province, and if this also means that, for example, some decisions of the Minister of Defence of Koroška would simply die economically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u55	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Chairman. Our legislation also dictates this stage on the way to establishing the provinces that today is happening with this item on the agenda. And as you can see, in the review of the applications for debate, I did not apply to this debate. As I monitored today's event in this Chamber, a discussion of my colleagues, of course I respect, has given me an impression that I think it's important that I repeat what some have said is an important event, and then explain why I find the debate interesting and why I find it boring. In the first part, this is an important event where nothing will happen. It is simply a phase that we must go through to get to the path where things that you have talked about many times and many times will need to be done. It is just a constitutional document that is not changing in any way, and the constitutional law that we are talking about today is the need for this to happen, even though we have not yet achieved nothing in all of today's debates. The second is that I find the debate interesting. I'm going to repeat this time the words of the current chairman who said yesterday to the bluff. This is because in the past we have had a lot more starting points than we have this time, what the landscapes look like and everything else you've said many times, even though at the time all four of us objected to reaching at least the first stages that we're dealing with today. And this did not happen for reasons that were listed here today. Thirdly, to say why I am bored with this debate; because I have heard all these views, all the reasons for doing it and why we are doing it, I have heard it several times. No offense, which is what I'm gonna say. I have a feeling that those of you who read the texts have read from the same papers you've used before. And I will also support this phase to reach a constitutional law allowing us through the constitution to really talk about the real content, how many landscapes, what forms of funding, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u57	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Commissioner Christian Janz. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Chairman. One more time. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I am very pleased with today's debate, but I think it's not a bluff, I think it's not a bluff, because those Members are not who we are new to this House. Maybe older people have different experiences. That's one thing. Secondly, what some Members have expressed in the larger mandates of the National Assembly, and this and so on, has not come to fruition. Today's debate is that some visible result is that tonight or this afternoon this vote will be a success and the bluff will be over. I'm so sure, unless there's some figs in the pocket again with some Members, they're thinking differently. Today, according to my assessment, we are laying some fundamental stone to these landscapes and some celebrations, euphoria simply cannot have, because it seems to me that until cutting the tape there will be some time, a few years, not least we must remember that we need to adopt at least four laws; the law on the financing of the provinces, the law on the landscapes, the law on the procedure and the establishment of the province and the law on the elections to the provinces. These are four important laws, important topics when we will still have a lot to discuss, coordinate and so on. And when we get the four of you under the roof, then we're going to the party, and then yes. Today I do not see any great celebration; we are working, opening the door, giving an opportunity, but to celebrate, a historic day, and, I don't know, what seems a little premature to me today. Especially because some people say, because it's a bluff, a dick in your pocket and so on. In short, this is confirmed to me again today, Minister-in-Charge, that this ministry was still necessary. Today you also prove to those who may have been a little skeptical a while ago that we need him. And I hope that in the next term this will be a single ministry with all its powers. And third; new jobs. Here I am also afraid, I hope that we will be so reasonable, rational and even then find consensus that in this area it will be in this area, because in the public sector we have a sea of people, it is only necessary to redistribute them so that they will not drive from Sevnica to Ljubljana to work, but will be able to drive from Sevnica to Krška and to Brežica and vice versa. That's what we're gonna have to do. This will certainly be coordination between the ministries, both of them and of others, in principle with Mr Virant. The main negotiator and the main actor must be the Ministry of Finance. He will have to be interviewed seriously within the government, so that we can round these things up somehow, because I am sure that some of the big new jobs should not be in this area. But as for the number of landscapes -- 12, 14 -- we've all been talking for a while. I think that this number is quite real and objective, and also by Slovenia, I think, in most cases, Members of the municipalities and so on, 14 is certainly acceptable. But this will be under discussion in the coming months, and I think we will also find at this point of consensus, so many regions, so many landscapes that would somehow cover Slovenia with some rounded whole, which are already more or less familiar, and we will discover nothing new, warm water. Mr Minister, I wish your team much success and, once again, I would like to come to Parliament with the first, second, third and fourth laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u59	Thank you. Member Jožef Jerovšek has been announced for the debate. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! This debate today and then the vote on the amendment of the Constitution will be sure if it is voted and I am sure that this time it will make an important contribution to the changes on Slovenia's political, economic map. Indeed, as has been pointed out here, thinking about how to divide Slovenia, how to structure it according to the administrative and political system, practically from the declaration of independence, and we have been doing this for 15 years. And I must say that even in the past 10 years, since I am a Member, there have actually been a lot of debates. And to be very honest, I have never been, and even today I am not very excited about such regionalisation or the setting up of landscapes, because I am aware that in addition to the positives, it necessarily brings down sometimes the minuses. We can be so sure, it is clear that this creation of landscapes will also in some way contribute to the bureaucracy of the country, because it is an inevitable tax of this kind. Of course, today I will support this constitutional law because I believe that there are actually needs and reasons for doing so. The first is the decentralisation of the state. In fact, the state has been centralised in the past. Above all, financial resources, political influence and all of this have been centralised, and we hope that some centres of power will be created with this dispersion that will contribute to greater regional development. The second reason why I think it is necessary to establish the provinces is because I am also meeting as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy. In view of the equivalence of our country, we must also establish this second level, which will be able to work with parallel, neighbouring regions and countries. Now, sometimes we humiliate our own country when we have to cut ourselves off from the level of the National Assembly or face institutions that are lower. To mate with the relevant institutions in the neighbouring provinces, we must have this level. That is why this needs to be done, but with a lot of wisdom, meticulousness and understanding that we will not make major mistakes here, that the powers will actually be transferred, that part of the funding or resources will be transferred, and I am not afraid of that. However, I know that there will be a lot of debates, a lot of critical thoughts and a lot of different interests when these landscapes arise. That is why I also understand, let's say I politically understand the Slovenian National Party, which at the moment opposes this, because it is aware that this is an important political niche where it will be able to participate in these discussions. I understand, however, that this must also be explained to the Slovenian public, which are the political motivations, which are the political causes. One of the reasons why I used to be, or I'm still a little scared of myself, as I said last time, is that when the interests of establishing the landscapes are formed, these future landscape centres will look for a critical mass. Slovenia's Bistrica, where I come from, is one of those places where there are two, Maribor and Ptuj. We traditionally belong and are tied to Maribor. In the past, in the delegation system, we have been connected to Ptuj and some of the rest of the previous system has been maintained until today. Even when the government came to visit the provinces, Bistrica invited Ptuj. I did not participate in this because as a Bistrician I also have to press on my own government so that it will not make a mistake that the Ptujcans will also want to join Slovenska Bistrica in the search for critical mass. That must be pointed out from the first moment, and I'm sure we have such a government now that it won't do this nonsense. If I finish. Today's adoption of this constitutional law is our first step. Further steps can be swift if there is political consensus, political will, but can be carried on indefinitely. Since there is such a consensus that I hope that it will not go away until the vote, I think that the consensus is also for further steps and that what is good for the future of Slovenia, even in relation to neighbouring countries, in relation to the EU, we will work with some tolerance, with understanding, in the common interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u61	Thank you for your discussion. Does anyone else want to discuss the constitutional law in its entirety, except for the Minister? No, no, no. Minister, I invite you to your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Maybe very briefly. First of all, I would like to point out that we are today discussing the establishment of landscapes, not some administrative structures whose decisions were necessary in line with the negotiations on the financial perspective. Here I am referring to the issue of cohesion regions. It is true that if we already had the provinces established, we could also use them in these negotiations, but the fact that we did not have them is a completely separate matter at this point. On the one hand, the negotiations in that true sense of the word, including the political establishment, on the other, are administrative structures that we have established on the basis of the adopted law here, in the national assembly. Of course, I am sure that the decisions in the given framework, in view of the regulation, especially the European, are the right solutions, including as regards the establishment of cohesion regions over a longer period, and are linked to the possibility of negotiations for the next period, if these conditions continue to apply. However, we know that regulation is also changing at the European level. With regard to the establishment of landscapes, which is a topic, I agree that today this can also be a half-step, which – as I have already said before – is, last but not least, virtually all of us today are in agreement - necessary for the next half or more steps when the whole package of legislation is to be adopted. At that time, of course, we will be united because this law is to be adopted by the two - thirds majority of whom we have now spoken the most about, sawed or shared this Slovenia in any way with a cruel sword. However, I believe that this division will go in the same direction as it will represent a new development opportunity in terms of decentralisation of the country, consistent regional development. As far as the dynamics of the drafting of legislation are concerned, these things are taking place with us, but it is quite clear that at this moment this dynamic is linked to constitutional changes and we have adapted all our activities to this, but we will now, at the next stage, when - and I believe that the constitutional law will be confirmed - have also substantially accelerated, as guidance will also be given, we can significantly accelerate this final part of the drafting of legislation so that things will go forward as quickly as possible. Once again, I believe that when we take on the common responsibility of this bridle sword, I believe that it is not an ugly sword, the establishment of landscapes, that this consensus will still remain. Our purpose and purpose are also to remain, and we will do everything in our power to do so, and this good will remains in the National Assembly, in order to arrive at these decisions, which are an essential contribution to the further development of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u63	Minister, thank you. I also conclude the debate with this. The articles and the section and the proposal for a constitutional law will be decided in full in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda or no later than 21st and 30th minutes. This concludes this agenda item. Minister, I thank you for your participation. We're moving to five. Period of the day - Another defends the proposal for a mandatory law on the performance of public works. In doing so, I inform you that two hours and twenty minutes are foreseen for the joint debate. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! At a meeting of the government on 22 March, the government addressed the draft law and adopted it and sent it to the National Assembly for regular legislative procedure. On 1 June, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Culture, Education and Sport addressed this proposal and a second reading took place. Amendments were adopted on the committee itself, making the proposal for a law meaningfully complementary and comprehensive. Allow me to reiterate only the essential points of the proposal for a mandatory copy. The mandatory press release law has been in force since 1972, and this law has become obsolete in several respects to date and must therefore be replaced by a new law. The adoption of a new law on mandatory copies of publications is conditional, in particular, on the following facts. Firstly, the law so far has not been fully implemented, it does not cover the whole of the materials covered by the mandatory copy, it does not have an instrument of control and enforcement in order to ensure the fullest possible coverage of publications and thus enable the basic function of the compulsory copy, namely the provision, maintenance and accessibility of all publications issued as cultural heritage. Secondly, the social and economic conditions linked to the changed status of publishers, which have become part of the private sector through privatisation, are now significantly different. The status of printers and other publishers of publications that have so far been liable to a compulsory copy has also changed, even though they only carry out a service activity and their economic interest is purely economic. Thirdly, the implementation of the compulsory copy of the publication instrument so far has been linked to three laws from different fields and a single, modern law defining new debtors, sets out a lower number of mandatory copies and also includes the collection of electronic publications, in particular online ones, to ensure the effective delivery of the mandatory copy. The adoption of the law is linked to the fact that the National Library has new responsibilities in Slovenia as a single country. The purpose of the law is to preserve all publications as cultural heritage, to ensure long-term accessibility of publications and to carry out bibliographic control. Fifthly, the adoption of a new law is conditioned by the fact that we are witnessing the development of new, in particular electronic, record-holders, so the law sets out the types of publications that are subject to a mandatory copy, and it is important that new electronic publications are included in the mandatory copy, both in physical media such as laser panels and the like, as well as on computer networks and on the world web. The total number of mandatory copies is determined - four, and the number of mandatory copies of those publications co-financed by public funds is 16. In order to maintain a larger number of mandatory copies in publicly funded publications, the applicant has decided that the public funds involved in the preparation and production of these publications have already covered the costs of the compulsory copy. In addition, it ensures adequate regional accessibility of publications for which public interest has been expressed in various areas, from culture, science, education and so on. The exception to the number of mandatory copies referred to in the preceding Article is limited to three types of publications, namely electronic publications on networks or on the world web, doctoral dissertations or extremely expensive publications. In the case of the debtors, the new law makes a significant change, since only publishers, i.e. publishers or distributors established in the Republic of Slovenia and who are morally and materially responsible for the publication of the publication, are identified as debtors. The National Depository Organization is the National and University Library, and the depository organisations are also the University Library in Maribor, 10 central district libraries and central Slovenian libraries in place. Financing, implementation of the law shall be imposed on competent government departments. The responsibility of the individual government is determined by its competence to finance a particular depository organisation, for example to finance the National University Library and the tasks of the central regional libraries under Article 27 of the Library Act, the Ministry of Culture is responsible for financing the tasks of the University Library in Maribor, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, and the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenia, in place and worldwide, is responsible for financing the tasks of the central libraries of Slovenes. The law also regulates inspection of the implementation of the law and also defines criminal provisions and fines. All of this ensures that a mandatory copy of the new law will be implemented in full, up-to-date and on the basis of clear powers and duties of all those concerned by the law. The mandatory copy law is therefore a response to the old over-regulation and contains a new, modern and timely solution, so we propose that the State Assembly adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Sam Bevik, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u66	Thank you for your words, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor! At its 15th regular session, on 1 June 2006, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport addressed a proposal for a mandatory copy of the publications submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The representative of the proposed law stated in the supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposed law seeks to replace the obsolete law on mandatory sending of newspapers, which has been in force since 1972. The main reasons for admission are the changed social and economic situation, the instrument of a mandatory copy of publications in several laws in various fields, the new duties of the National Library in Slovenia as a stand-alone country and the development of new, in particular electronic record holders. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the comments made in their written opinion were largely taken into account in the amendments tabled by the members of the Coalition. The representative of the National and University Library expressed support for the proposed law, which will enable the collection of a mandatory copy as a Slovenian cultural heritage to be carried out in the future. He pointed out, however, that the proposed law lays down very short deadlines in which the national library will have to provide conditions for the collection of electronic publications and that the financial and human resources implications of the law will be greater than those envisaged. The representative of the Information Officer presented their initiative to regulate the legal vacuum in the area of the free accessibility of diploma and master's works by means of the proposed law. Members and members of the committee raised several issues, opinions and concerns in the debate, in particular they felt that the proposed law did not follow the basic purpose of the mandatory copy, namely keeping all publications published in Slovenia as national, cultural heritage. The Committee then adopted amendments to Articles 8, 9, 13, 17, 18, 24, 25 and 26 and its amendment to Article 5. The Committee did not accept the amendments of the Magi. Majde Purity to Articles 6 and 14 and the amendment of the LDS to Article 21. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Committee has set out the text of the amended draft law which forms an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I ask Master Franz Žnidaršič to present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u68	Mr President, Mr Minister with co-worker, colleague and colleague. Members of the DeSUS will support the proposal for a mandatory copy of the publications tabled by the Government in the parliamentary procedure, because we believe that the proposed law adequately regulates the area. In the current legislation, this area is regulated by three laws, but given the importance of matter, it is necessary to regulate this by one law, adapted to the new social, economic conditions. A mandatory copy of the publications is the mechanism by which certain libraries receive one or more copies of each book printed in Slovenia. Such a mechanism is certainly needed for the preservation of Slovenian written cultural heritage, the production of national bibliography, the availability of publications for scientific purposes, and it is also important as a source of static data on Slovenian publishing production. The proposal establishes a system for the capture of a mandatory copy, which will bind publishers, distributors and other comparable entities responsible for the cultural content of the publications issued, not the printers to whom the status has changed through privatisation and who print only the publications issued, thus performing only a service activity of purely economic economic interest. However, it is also important to reduce the number of copies of publications submitted from 16 to 4, which is also a practice in EU countries. There is certainly an urgent need for innovation to ensure the collection of electronic record holders of publications, which are an increasingly dominant way of recording and transferring information. Members of the DeSUS believe that the proposal provides the necessary conditions for the establishment of such a mechanism for the collection of publications in an appropriate manner, taking into account their digital nature, which they do not have printed publications. In our parliamentary group, we will support the text of the amended bill, because in our view and in a modern way it solves most of the issues that have been raised so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek will present the position of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u70	Dear Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of the government, and a well-respected assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a mandatory copy of the publications. Just walking through the review of the primary functions of the compulsory copy as the preservation of the national cultural heritage, the production of national bibliography and the accessibility of publications for scientific and research purposes, leads to the importance of the mandatory copy and its functions of facilitating access to information. The current legal basis for a mandatory copy of the publications is the mandatory press release law, which has been in force since 1972. In addition to the mandatory copy of other types of publications, in particular audiovisual publications and the daily press, this area is regulated by the law on the conditions for performing reproductive, video and audio activities and the media law. The adoption of a new law regulating the scope of a mandatory copy of publications is conditioned by the changed social and economic situation, the treatment of the instrument of compulsory copy of publications in several laws from different fields, the new duties of the national library in Slovenia as a single country, the development of new, in particular electronic, record holders. Its adoption is further conditioned by the changed social and economic conditions, which relate to the changed status of publishers who have become part of the private sector. Restricting the current one is only possible within the framework of constitutional restrictions. These are provided for under Article 73 of the Constitution, which imposes on everyone the obligation to protect cultural heritage. The following conditionality requires a change in the status of printers and other producers of publications providing services, with their economic interest purely economic. This diversity of methods of production of publications requires the establishment of such a system of coverage of a mandatory copy, which will bind publishers and other comparable entities responsible for the cultural-individual aspect of the publications issued. With regard to the types of publications subject to the mandatory copy, the draft law provides that new electronic publications are also included in the mandatory copy on physical media, such as laser panels and the like, as well as on computer networks and on the global Internet. The draft law defines the total number of mandatory copies, four mandatory copies. A larger number of copies of those publications, co-financed by public funds, are 16 copies, as public funds have already been involved in the preparation and production of these publications covered the costs of the mandatory copy. In addition, they ensured adequate regional accessibility of publications of public interest. The exception is three types of publications, such as electronic publications on networks or on the world web, doctoral dissertation or extremely expensive publications. An important part of the law is the obligation of the debtors to issue mandatory copies of publications which, according to our assessment, ensure the implementation of the purpose of the law. This ensures the preservation and accessibility of a number of copies of all publications as national cultural heritage and makes it essential to produce national bibliography and to make publications available for scientific and research purposes. On the basis of this, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a mandatory copy of the publications, as has already been said. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca will present the position of the LDS Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u72	In the parliamentary group, we are not united in supporting this law and will certainly not have a hundred percent consensus. First of all, the mandatory copy is not a new invention, it was established in Kranjska in 1807. However, we all know that a mandatory copy means the preservation and accessibility of all presses as national and cultural values, in a broader sense of course. This ensures social, educational, research, cultural and information accessibility, while also enabling international bibliographic classification. In some ways, the mandatory copy is limited or is a mandatory copy of the limitation of property rights, which in general is undoubtedly a benefit and this general benefit has been recognised by the Republic of Slovenia in the past or to date as a meaningful restriction for the nation. Restricting property freedom, which is a second advantage over this freedom. This year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia justified the need for a mandatory copy in the sense of this benefit. This is an example of a constitutional assessment given by Prešeren Society in February, and the government responded with different arguments when it uses them today when it advocates a new method of mandatory copy. What does the government say? I quote: "The mandatory copy means the economic benefit of the publisher, the increase in the promotion and sale of the publication, as each copy is published free of charge, bibliographically processed and incorporated into the information system. Indeed, the government considers that the public benefit in the case of the mandatory press release law is such that the debtor is not limited to ownership rights, but the publisher benefits even from it." In doing so, the Government, which was in March 2006, rejected the initiative to put the compulsory copy in a competitively poor market position in the property sphere of the provider, which was intended to be placed in a competitively poorer position to send a compulsory institution. But opinions change. In the former Yugoslavia we had a larger number of mandatory copies, in Slovenia itself 16, now we are reducing them to four. So today the number of mandatory copies is decreasing. However, the reduction in the number of mandatory copies needs to be seen in the context of the broader cultural policy of the country. The current cultural policy, which has always or at least seen the book as the highest intellectual asset, has decided by reducing the number of mandatory copies to give priority to economic interest rather than to cultural interest. For example, I could say that it would make sense, if I told him, to tax or parading in general benefit, which would be in the interests of libraries and reading culture, to preserve. No! No! The government, which is supposed to kidnap publishers, particularly smaller, with a single tax rate, will harm consumers of literature and libraries. But that's how she made up her mind. The former governments didn't. With 16 SIKs, the general educational libraries, receiving mandatory copies of the literature financed from public funds, new discrimination will be imposed. So, let's say, I give an example, an Official Gazette or a tour guide of a company will come to the library on a mandatory path, some monograph, which for such or other reasons will not be supported - we know that commissions are thinking differently - with public funds, it will not be difficult, but it will not. In this place, of course, we have the answer of the competent minister, and he will certainly go this way if the libraries receive the refund money for the replacement purchases. If that were true, then our amendment to the 21st Article would not be rejected on the parent committee and we would probably support the amendment to Article 5 as proposed in this consideration. And if a certain refund happens accidentally and miraculously, then I doubt that libraries will follow the principle of buying those books that have a certain so-called national interest. They will buy what demands; i.e., the number of borrowed copies in the library is also a criterion to reward their success and users who want to get to the study material will have to go to Ljubljana. And what we talked about this morning in the National Assembly - about decentralisation, however. Don't forget!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk alone will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the law on a mandatory copy of publications. We have been systematically collecting mandatory copies of publications printed or published in Slovenia since 1807. Next year, we will therefore celebrate the 200th anniversary of the systematic collection of publications, books and other press, which can be described as one of the most important national cultural projects, which has a special role to play in preserving historical memory and national consciousness. By collecting a mandatory copy, the National and University Library has been building its base collection for almost two centuries, the Slovenian National Fund, the so-called Slovenian Library. Slovenika is a tangible proof of Slovenian cultural creativity and an irreplaceable source for humanistic and social research. The material obtained in this way by the National and University Library represents up to two thirds of the annual growth of all the materials of this institution. We need a new law, of course, because it has been an outdated law on mandatory press dispatch since 1972. At that time, there have been significant social and economic changes, especially the development of new information technologies, electronic record holders, which also means a new obligation, namely the obligation to collect electronic publications, which means an additional professional, human and financial problem or challenge. The draft law provides for four mandatory copies of publications and for those financed from public funds there are sixteen copies. This reduces the number of mandatory copies to which additional resources from the State budget will need to be provided to the libraries, while increasing the number of mandatory copy contributors, according to the National and University Library estimates of four times, which means that staff reinforcements will also be needed. The explanation of the law provides for financial implications only for the state budget, which according to the drafter of the law should be provided for in the State budgets for 2006 and 2007. In the opinion of the section, some 70 million tolars are expected to be lost for the implementation of the law, and I am convinced that the financial consequences of the law are undervalued. This can be resolved in the balance sheet of the budget. The Group of Social Democrats will support the LDS amendment and will fully support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Well, hello, all of you! We have before us a proposal for a law on a mandatory copy of publications that wishes to regulate the obligations of a mandatory copy of publications, the tasks of the National Library in Slovenia and, in particular, the regulation of the field of preservation and protection of electronic publications so that such cultural heritage is not lost. The topic so far has been laid down in three, for today's obsolete laws. The changed social and political conditions on Slovenian soils and, above all, the development of electronic media are called under the new law. The publishers have been privatised as debtors for the mandatory issuance of a certain number of copies. Their primary interest is purely economic, yet they are bound by the Constitution to protect cultural heritage, i.e. to issue a certain number of copies. The new law reduces the number of mandatory copies to four, sometimes to 22, for example for the national libraries of the Yugoslav Republics. The number of those publications, co-financed by public funds, rises to 16, which one copy receives 10 central regional libraries in Slovenia, two central libraries in place and two copies of the National and University Library in Ljubljana and the University Library in Maribor. Exceptions to the number of copies include publications on networks or on the world web, doctoral dissertation and extremely expensive publications, which are received only by NUK. Thus, one mandatory copy of electronic publications on the computer network or on the world web, two copies of doctoral dissertations and two copies of extremely expensive publications, worth over 240,000. Liabilities to a mandatory copy are publishers, publishers or distributors established in the Republic of Slovenia under this Act. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposed law, we support a reduced number of mandatory free copies, and in publications co-financed by public funds and expressed public interest, it is right to distribute them by regional libraries and housing. The law also regulates the scope of the electronic publication, which is developing as quickly as possible, changes and is protected by this law in order not to get lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The draft law on the compulsory copy of publications covers the scope of the compulsory copy of publications, sets out the purpose and subject of the compulsory copy, the obliged copy, the tasks of depository organisations, financing and inspection. The proposed law thus replaces the obsolete law on mandatory press dispatch, which has been in force since 1972. The amendment of the law also requires a change in the status of publishers, printers and other publishers of publications, and the instrument of a mandatory copy of the publications is dealt with in several laws in different fields and the amendment of the law also requires new duties of the national library in Slovenia as a single country and the development of new, in particular electronic, record holders. The proposed law is consistent with both the debtors and the depository organisations. By reducing the number of mandatory copies of books that are not supported by public funds, libraries are given the opportunity to purchase, on their own initiative, those books that are more relevant in a particular environment or region. Regional and local libraries are thus not poor, but the essence that is important to the nation and the preservation of cultural heritage is preserved. At the same time, access to a mandatory copy at the regional level increases compared to the current situation with two new libraries. For the Slovenian People's Party, the protection of cultural heritage is very important for the preservation of Slovenian culture and the fundamental importance for our national existence and the preservation of Slovenian identity in general. In addition, this is an important source of statistics and enables national bibliographical control, which is very important for each country, as it enables the identification of publications in the country. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! It is true that the law, which, as the predecessor has already said, has been in force since 1972, requires certain changes and changed social conditions, also requires that something be done in this area. The law should therefore regulate the area of compulsory copy in accordance with Article 73 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and protect cultural heritage better than it is now. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that changes are necessary, so we will not oppose the law, but it is also true that new dilemmas and questions are being opened in the space, and that it may also be necessary to answer that the proposed law, which does not follow the fundamental purpose of the mandatory copy, is to preserve all publications issued as national cultural heritage, we will have to do something. We support the law, as has already been said, in the Slovenian National Party and, as we see, a change in this area is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 20.6.2006. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. Who wants a word? Here you go, Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues! In this law, as with the vast majority of other laws, it is virtually impossible to talk about certain shortcomings at the place where they are decided because the way in which the legislation is adopted is such that the coalition adopts what the ministry or government blesses and, from this point of view, very little is left to draw attention to the problematic or neurological points of individual solutions. The amendment to this article merely refers to the need to replace this difference in some way in the number of mandatory copies between the previous regime and the current arrangements. The amendment itself is probably condemned, like all comments, to failure. However, I am taking advantage of this debate to say that whatever the reasons they say about certain things having to be updated, the complete solution in the total sum is for Slovenian librarianism and for Slovenian culture a bad solution. It is weak in this respect that it reduces the standard in libraries and especially the standard which is linked to the importance of the mandatory copy. That I'm right, he also speaks of the embarrassment the ministry obviously has when they're stirring up different solutions to replace these, and I'll say under the terms, "missing copies." If the Ministry were to be consistent and indeed think that the four mandatory copies could cover everything, then no exceptions would be necessary, not to those which are financed from public funds, but to those which are of wider regional importance. Thus, the Ministry has fallen into the trap of these so-called social changes and has left a very important instrument of cultural policy in the field of librarianism. It is true that the basic purpose, as defined by Unesco, will be sufficient to maintain the minimum number of copies in a decent and standardised manner. However, something else will happen - that will substantially change the situation of these regional libraries. The paradox is that today we are all saying a lot that we have taken a step or we will take a step towards decentralisation, but at the same time at the next point we are leaving some element that we consider to be obsolete, which in fact meant an element of decentralisation in the field of librarianism. We'll put an end to this today. I myself find this difficult to understand, despite all that I will say to the business entities operating in this area. The Ministry would also have other levers available to comfort or reach an agreement with those undertakings for a mandatory copy, but it probably did not seek them. The Minister himself said that the pledges agree with this, in what I believe in him, and that the librarians agree. The other one's hard to believe. I checked myself with two entities and both of these types of consent denied. Of course, we are in a classic situation that arises in this country, that no one is ready to be publicly exposed at this point because they are afraid of the Ministry's sanctions. But anyway, it would be very good to see the correspondence of the minister and the ministry with these libraries and all of them, and the whole lot of this consent to lose this mandatory copy. Look what happens. The Ministry proposes that those copies produced by means of public funds should only go back to the same extent in libraries. This, of course, will not solve the problem of a mandatory copy, but some other problem, it is said, is the problem of replenishing these funds. The required copy itself is not intended to do so, but in this situation it may happen that, for example, the Official Gazette is an economic company, I think it will not receive subsidies from the Ministry of Culture or from anyone else, will not be obliged to submit sixteen copies, perhaps for a number of interesting publications, while the market mayor, who has established his radio and newspaper by public means, will be able to send his collected works to everyone. They will certainly be interesting for journalism students, while for those who deal with law and regulation, etc., they will not. This amendment, which we are proposing, is trying, as it is called "known" or time-wise, to provide funds for these mandatory copies, counting that some regionalisation in Slovenia can survive. At the end of this debate, I will probably remain in that minority, which will warn that, as I have already said, the standard is falling and in this regard the Minister is right, in view of this, the law is modern, because, as in other cultural areas, it also lowers standards and does not increase them. And that is the sad content of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u83	Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u84	My colleague, Joseph Školč, explained the meaning of Article 5. And to complement the fact that this amendment comes from extreme mistrust and the superficial definition of financial consequences, as this law brings to it. It is superficial because it does not capture or actually cover all the calculations for all those copies that will no longer be present in general educational libraries and will only be reduced at the university library. Not at the Slovenian office around the world or anywhere else, because we know that a mandatory copy will also be missing from both foreign libraries. These funds are calculated on an average basis, but even if the Ministry devotes part of certain funds to general educational libraries, as I have previously pointed out, the libraries themselves will decide what they think they need to buy and what they do not. However, the purpose of the mandatory copy is, as we all agree today, and as we all know, more than the material that is worth or is on loan; this material is in the study and bibliographic and national interests. And the lack of hope that the Ministry will refund, it is already based on the accounts that were assessed in this law, the NUK said they would eventually run out of about 200 million. They've been studied by the Ministry for 90 million. After all, does the Ministry of Culture implement a national programme for culture, which it so desired for many years when it was still in a different status and when it so strongly advocated the so-called book fund? Does it carry out the financial implications of the Fund for the book described in the National Programme for Culture? No, it does not implement a national programme for culture, since it has not been brought into the National Assembly for a year and a half, as we call it, to be examined by the National Assembly as to how the objectives are being pursued, whether the Government has brought corrections to its objectives. For this reason, this mistrust is absolutely necessary, and what is said to be in the national interest of this nation must be protected. And we have all the parties, and one even more obesely, the national interest of this nation in the first places of its declarations - some declarations and some defences. The number of mandatory copies is different across countries. Of course, you have statistics here as to how some countries have decided that these copies are less but specific legislation or sub-legislative acts, such as directing different arrangements. Germany does not have only three mandatory copies, but distributes them at 14 country centres. Each country receives a mandatory copy of the publisher, or one that issues a book or electronic publication. It is therefore necessary to understand the number of mandatory copies and to interpret them within the broader cultural policy of the individual country to the book. And here is the problem where, in fact, colleagues rarely sitting here today are notorious for the past, where the national interest of this nation needs to be understood through cultural policy for the book. Once again, the analyses that talk about tax reforms in the book are talking about small publishers disappearing from the horizon because they will not be paid because the book will be irritable because the costs will be higher, because at least 11% for this country will be for the consumer or - good minister, clearly, your analysis, which you have so far called on public information providers to hold somewhere under the table, they say, your interpretations of these analyses, speak slightly differently. They talk softer, if you don't mind, because the state is going to subsidize everything. But former Minister Damjan said on this issue that it is dangerous if the state subsidizes everyone or most of them and does not leave other regulations to individuals who do not create such dependence on such a country as you create. After all, you are also turning the funds into state authorities, where control will increase in all areas. In short, I will return to the National Programme for Culture, to an act that was here for years and years subject to unloving desire when it was voted, so it has been swept under, not carpet, but actually in the trash. At that time, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group tabled an amendment to the book and said that raising the level of reading culture was necessary to raise, increase the number of readers at all ages, and at the beginning said that, in the age of computers and television, it was necessary to redefine the importance of reading and reading. The amendment went even so far as to say that the new media cannot replace the effects of reading on individual growth, development of individual thinking and creativity that this fascination with images changes their tyranny, new technologies equal the imagination and imagination dimensions that only reads; in short, reading, reading and reading. But reading is also classified by everything that needs to be read, published in Slovenia, and these addresses are - you probably have more accurate data, about 4,000, the addresses are probably more today - you need to keep and keep accessible to everyone. Not that they will be from Murska Sobota, from Ptuj, from Nova Gorica and from elsewhere, going to and from the National University Library, which is so small and so small, which is not yet in the larger and wider form of the horizon, but because of this they will not be available in the horizon of another economic building. This is a problem and therefore we would think it would be appropriate to preserve the meaning that is enshrined in the national programme for culture that directs revision, I will say, the law on mandatory copy in this sense to adapt it to those challenges of time that require, as stated here, full access to up-to-date and complete information in publications in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u85	Mr Mitja Ljublješek, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I will focus primarily on the amendment tabled by the LDS Club, which discusses the purchase of a mandatory copy provided by the competent ministries in relation to the annual average purchase price of the library material unit. I will not discuss the current issue, the predictions of what will happen if and when it will. I'll start by saying that I will not support this single amendment tabled. Why not? This is because Article 21 of the Law stipulates that the competent ministries shall provide budgetary resources for the purchase of materials due to the failure of the compulsory copy, both for the regional libraries and for the district library. However, only on the basis of annual work programmes and financial plans and in accordance with the procedures provided for by law for each area. This means, in this case, that the Ministry of Culture, which is responsible for financing the programmes of the Central District Libraries and the Exchanged Libraries, will, on the basis of the prepared programmes for the purchase of materials from individual libraries prepared on the basis of the various substantive criteria, including the average prices for the previous year, determine the volume of funding, but only definitively on the basis of public tenders. Why is that important? The legal binding of the volume of funds only to the average price would result in a decrease in the interest of libraries to achieve more favourable prices and discounts, as otherwise any increase in the average purchase price would bring them more resources in the following year; hence, the interest of libraries would be lost for the lowest possible purchase price. And second. In explaining the amendment, I perceive some concern about providing financial resources for the purchase of appropriate materials for study and educational purposes. I believe that this concern is unnecessary or unnecessary, since the central regional libraries and the two foreign libraries will also receive this material in the framework of a mandatory copy, which is largely financed by public funds. They will also purchase commercially published material, such as literature, newspapers, professional magazines, non-book material, electronic publications, and so on. I believe that users will have no difficulty in accessing this material, as the bill provides them with the flow of all publicly funded materials in the current year and the appropriate purchase of those commercially published publications that are important for individual central libraries. Of course, libraries will be able to purchase only one copy of such material by means of means intended for the purchase of materials which will no longer be obtained by means of a mandatory copy, and for more copies they will have to allocate other resources, as the proposed law refers to the replacement of the failure of the compulsory copy. In doing so, I would like to point out that, compared to the situation so far, the situation will even improve as libraries have been able to dispose of materials from a mandatory copy, which have not been used frequently, without special supervision, and in the new legislation, access and elimination will be regulated by specific regulations. From all of this, I believe that the fear of the LDS is too great for the proposal to properly address the issue and to this end it also regulates the procedures for a mandatory copy of the publications. That is why, as I said in the introduction, I will not support the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u87	I'm closing the debate. Mr. Skull, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u88	I must say that this intelligence, demonstrated by the Ministry and now by Mr Ljubeljšek, is absolutely beyond my understanding. How can it be if you take something from someone to get more than you say. It's not like that. If you take something from someone, they get less. This seems to me to be a very simple truth that is clear to everyone, including one that does not deal with the issues of these purchases of library material. Another mistake, Mr Ljubeljšek, who reigns in this discussion, is the confusion about the money needed for the purchase of library material and the function of a mandatory copy. The mandatory copy is not intended to fill the funds in libraries, but to provide some other functions. And if you remove the mandatory copy from regional libraries and libraries in exchange, you will also terminate these functions. It means make them poor, not make them rich. And I ask you kindly to learn about what a mandatory copy is, what its purposes are and what the function of renting, buying, and so on. However, it seems to me that even Fran Milczynski in all those descriptions of the famous peoples of all the known countries did not come so far as to find that if something were taken away from someone to get more of what you claim here with the minister and his services.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u89	I'm closing the debate. In the future, I'd like to ask you to come forward a little earlier. Here you go, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u90	These changes, or in this discussion, are in some way given solace to these business operators on the market, and publishers are often very aggressive in this role. After all, in recent times, their voice has been growing that libraries are somehow entering their budgets by being disloyal to competition, and they do not, of course, have that educational, cultural and any other mission that allows those who cannot buy certain materials to come to certain information. Once again, if we do not commit - well, the 21st articles did not want to "buy" because the ministry was "loose" to a more consistent respect of this law, we tried Article 5 to avoid what I had already said at the outset: those who would like to learn about material that is not accessible to a home that is stored for other purposes because of its nature will travel to Ljubljana from now on. And once again, you were talking about the provinces today, you were talking about decentralisation, you were talking about the development of the regions, and you were talking about - we were talking and defending all of us together - about enriching this dispersion and accessibility across Slovenia. This is where we're headed to Ljubljana. And we are directing towards one institution or Maribor in part, which will keep it, but at the same time you are not giving the opportunity to the Ministry or not only the Ministry of Culture, in the end it is also the Ministry of Higher Education, the Office of Slovenians worldwide and the Ministry of Science; in short, for all those ministries and local communities involved in these consequences, they are committed to remedy this so far democratically and probably justly for the public interest, not necessarily for the economic interest, the regulated form of the mandatory copy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u91	Mr. Stabe, did you come in too? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected council, a respected minister! We need to separate between the mandatory archival copy and the equipping of regional, minority and so on libraries. Why burden the price of a book or a publication, whatever, with this additional cost to customers to equip libraries at the price of a book or all the buyers of those books? Public interest is satisfied with the way to ensure that these libraries have the resources to purchase such copies, not the obligation of the issuer. And this poverty may also have a different meaning: the poverty of the publisher and the poverty of the buyers of these books who buy these books from the same publisher because of your opinion that mandatory copies should be, as is now the custom, very non-liberal and non-marketable and disproportionate, who is obliged to do something, in the public interest is now regulated in the manner proposed in the law. However, archiving copies is a national interest so that these copies are properly archived and protected and can be preserved through centuries and millenniums. Thus, in fact, the matter is perfectly logical and normal here, and thus this normality is being established. Those in charge of financing and library materials, whatever they are, in these libraries, which you think should also be dedicated to mandatory copies, and who is the publisher of these libraries, must also take care of these types of copies that these libraries need according to their nature. Some mandatory copies for such libraries do not make sense because these libraries probably do not need them, this is very different from the field, from the type of publication, and in modern times there will be most and many such publications, which are in real public interest, do not have a commercial flair, will also be transmitted in a more appropriate way, not only through physical copies in libraries. I think the matter is correct and acceptable, and I will support such a kind of solution in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u93	Mr. Skull, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u94	I cannot say otherwise than that Mr Šteba is a 'faithor', a believer of the SDS and the government. This is the only way to understand that he has not read the amendment and does not even know what the LDS is proposing in this case. Only blind faith doesn't need reading, not listening, and not thinking, and Mr. Stabe is demonstrating all this. The LDS Group proposes that the three competent ministries provide money for this mandatory copy without maintaining the system as it has been before, because the concept of the Ministry's law is to reduce it from the previous number 16 to 4 or in some cases even to fewer copies, which still means, I will say, in the language promoted by Mr Šteba, the leniency of someone third. But our proposal is that the three competent ministries allow this mandatory copy function to continue to run in all regional centres and in two substitute libraries. This discussion should be linked to your understanding of regional development and your understanding of the common Slovenian cultural space. The instrument, as you are now introducing, is poorer regional development and poorer common Slovenian space and is, I will say, an additional anti-cultural blow in the field of librarianism and the standards associated with this. That's what we're talking about and something else. Listening, thinking might prevent us from speaking through each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u95	Mrs. Uhan, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. The main dilemma is 4 or 16 copies, whether we go to Ljubljana or we get that material in New Town. And I, as a Trebnjek, wonder why this would not be available in Trebnje. With today's development of electronic media, why shouldn't it be possible to get this material in Trebnje? We already know today that libraries are borrowing from each other and that you can order materials in your library and get, say, New City or Ljubljana. Why not allow this exchange between libraries to be better? That all public interest or cultural interest - which comes out in Slovenia, I also find it difficult to believe, so I think it is right that everything that comes out in Slovenia, that it is preserved and this is preserved in the National and University Library, that what is a public interest is co-financed. And it's co-financed because it's a public interest. It says here that already last year more funds were made available by the Ministry of Culture than in previous years for the purchase of materials in general libraries. And I assume that more resources will have to be made available in the future. To build everything on free copies, however, I also find it pointless in today’s business system. And I believe that not everything that comes out in Slovenia is also a cultural interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u97	Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u98	Europe never separates. As soon as the differential rate of taxation and the possibility of lower and higher VAT were identified, what is of such or different nature, such discrimination was not allowed because it was afraid that various commissions and different subjective assessments would take place. It is true that what is in the public interest is said to be supported by countries. However, it is in the public interest for Slovenia, for example, also the budget fund for the book, which was supported and adopted in the previous mandate. However, as I know, it is not being implemented and, as I know, the law on the provision of certain specific cultural programmes is not being implemented in the field of library material to the extent that it is enshrined in the law. It is true that there is never a hundred percent, but it is true that at present it is less than it is in certain better times; in better times it has reached higher levels than it is today. But the budget fund for the book also tells us that the funds are obtained from VAT collected per book, but they are not distributed, as I know, and have not yet come to terms with this. Regardless of what I say, it is a great interest of the ruling coalition to preserve the book as one of the highest categories of Slovenian national identity. But this is why the media budget fund is being set up, and it's being set up, sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u99	I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda or at the latest at 9.30 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Protection Act, Shortening Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Here you go, Minister Dr. Sturm.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Financial Insurance Act, in accordance with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 June 2002 on financial insurance arrangements, lays down specific rules applicable to the financial insurance of claims concluded between certain entities in financial markets. The Republic of Slovenia or the Bank of Slovenia will also assume the commitments arising from the joint management of the monetary policy of the euro takeover countries under the auspices of the European Central Bank by taking over the euro. Therefore, it is proposed to supplement the Financial Insurance Act by defining in the new Article 7a the maximum lien right as a new form of providing financial collateral with a flag right. Let me mention that, in accordance with the rules laid down in the Treaty establishing the European Community, the proposal for a law on 3 April this year was also forwarded to the European Central Bank's formal procedure, from which we adopted a generally positive opinion. The Government therefore proposes to the National Assembly to support and adopt the law under review. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the committee president, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u102	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! At its 21st regular session, the Committee of the National Assembly on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Financial Insurance Act. The representative of the proposer who participated in the meeting, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Justice, gave an additional explanation to the article of the bill, in which he stressed that the proposal for a law represented less difficult amendments and additions to the current law on financial insurance. He presented the reasons for the drafting of the bill as well as its essential solutions and the objectives of the law. The Committee also adopted an amendment to Article 5 tabled by four parliamentary groups, namely SDS, Nova Slovenije, SLS and DeSUS, which reduced the deadline for the implementation of the law from the proposed 15 days after publication, the day following its publication in the Official Journal. In doing so, the Committee took into account the proposal of the Bank of Slovenia, which warned that a new insurance system should be established from 1.7.2006. However, there was no longer a debate on the articles of the law on the Committee, and in the end the Committee also supported all the articles of the law together and also proposed them to this honourable assembly for admission.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Srečko Hvauc, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Financial Insurance Act, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has given to the short-term procedure. As can be seen from the report of the parent working body, changes related to the adoption of the euro cannot be overtaken, and we will therefore support the proposal, including that amendment which, due to the time-limits, determines the validity of the law immediately after publication in the Official Journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Milan Squeakl on behalf of the LDS delegation, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! In fact, the Law amending and supplementing the Financial Insurance Act is the last law that formally allows Slovenia to fulfil all the conditions for Banka Slovenije to be able to carry out all the procedures that allow it to participate in the system of European Central Banks in early July, while also allowing it to adopt the euro on this basis on 1 January 2007, once the European Parliament and the European Council have confirmed this decision. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we support this law, regardless of the fact that we need to note that we do not understand why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia risks in some way by its procedures in this law. This law was already envisaged for adoption under the joint programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Bank of Slovenia, which was adopted at the end of November, and was, of course, in December 2003 in the pre-trade records between the old and the new government. This new government, which is now an old government, did not decide to bring this law into the National Assembly until April 2006. And if not for a joint meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Finance, if this law had not been implemented before 1 July, the Slovenian Central Bank risks not meeting the technical conditions for the creation of counter-insurance in the functioning of the system of European Central Banks, if there had been no such warnings, it would not be possible to hold a debate today only on this last key issue, on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. I can't imagine what it would be like, for example, if someone simply asked the content of this law because of the formal conclusion of the legal procedure. That doesn't mean we're against the law. On the contrary. We support the law, but we expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the competent Minister, to be able to explain a little more precisely why you decided to use the method of the so-called pool or "pool" and why you think this model is more appropriate than some other models. It is true that the law has no financial implications for the state budget, but it does not have any other financial implications. This law formally transfers an important part of the assets of the Republic of Slovenia, which was now part of the assets of the Slovenian central bank, at least according to the conduct of the law and according to the method chosen, to the jurisdiction of the European Central Bank. In this sense, of course, Slovenia is consciously giving up and handing over some of its assets. All these issues in this law are not sufficiently clarified by government representatives. The document was obviously created in the Bank of Slovenia and is, of course, appropriate, but explained, in particular, by government representatives, the apparently competent Minister of Justice, in our opinion, not sufficient. I would therefore suggest that we continue to hear some further clarifications, but we expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, above all, to provide, in such a law as the law establishing the conditions for taking the euro, more timely or, of course, to do its work faster than it has done in this case, to provide conditions and to reduce the risk that might arise if, in the parliamentary debate itself, political parties express objections or, say, veto this law. Imagine the veto of the state council on this law, which could formally mean that the issue of taking over the euro is suddenly in doubt. Mr. Minister, I expect answers, and we will support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kokalj, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u108	Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The amendments to the law on financial insurance that are before us today are included in the plan for the introduction of the euro in the Republic of Slovenia. The Financial Insurance Act was adopted in 2004 and covers Directive 2002/46 of the European Parliament and of the Council on financial insurance arrangements. The Directive defines the conclusion of financial collateral in the form of financial instruments or cash. The regime introduced by the Directive facilitates access to finance throughout the European Union, while at the same time reducing the price of capital in the financial markets of the Union. At the same time, with the acquisition of the European monetary currency of the euro, the Republic of Slovenia will assume other commitments on 1 January 2007 for the joint management of the monetary policy of the euro takeover countries under the auspices of the European Central Bank. National banks must provide adequate infrastructure and collateral for monetary transactions through appropriate instruments and legislation. Business clients are usually credit institutions, i.e. banks and savings banks, and a national bank in each Member State. The proposed amendments to the law will enable Banka Slovenije to introduce insurance using the so-called "pool" method by which the counterparty of the national central bank forms an asset fund intended to secure all transactions concluded by that party with the national central bank in the context of monetary operations. The property is thus not linked to a particular business, but ensures the insurance of all business. The advantages are that the fund is formed in advance and does not need to be re-established every time transactions are concluded. In New Slovenia, we believe that the introduction of this method will facilitate and value collateral, which is important in terms of increasing business with the European Union countries. In addition to the Financial Insurance Act, different interpretations will be excluded. There will also be a single practice of the Bank of Slovenia. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Kangler has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will mention a proposal for a law on changes and additions to financial insurance, which we will consider following a reduced procedure concerning less difficult changes. Changes are necessary as they constitute the conditions for the preparation of Banka Slovenije's infrastructure for the management of monetary policy after the introduction of the euro. Although the bill is based on the asset fund method as a means of providing and managing assets for insurance purposes, [[....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] . This method allows the Slovenian central bank to cover transactions concluded with domestic credit institutions and to support correspondence central banking models on its basis. The proposal also introduces a new form of financial insurance with a flag right, namely the maximum lien right. As a limitation it is specified that a maximum lien may only be established on financial instruments maintained in the form of a register, as it is carried out by entering into this register. An important amendment to the law relates to the amendment of the first paragraph of Article 11 of the current law. This clearly and unequivocally governs the effect of the financial insurance contract on the procedures for compulsory settlement, bankruptcy, involuntary liquidation, which is necessary in the area of transactions concluded under the Financial Insurance Act. The Financial Insurance Act governs the insurance of claims entered into in financial markets that may have an impact on the stability of the financial system. Given that the European Central Bank has also given a positive opinion on the amendments to the law and that the changes needed to take the euro will be supported by the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u112	Mr President, Mr Minister with a co-worker, colleague and colleague! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the government's proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Financial Insurance Act. In the Group of Members, we believe that this is necessary because of the transition to a common European currency and that the amendment of the law should therefore be amended to comply with the European Directive in the part concerning the collateral of assets with a flag right. On the one hand, this law provides adequate collateral for monetary operations and on the other hand lays down rules on the insurance of financial claims to entities involved in the financial market. The proposed changes relate to the determination of the financial assets required to secure loans by the European Central Bank, which grants loans or committees to domestic credit institutions. Therefore, the so-called "pool" method or method of the asset fund is chosen to ensure that all financial transactions of the financial entities involved are secured. In our conduct, this method is significantly more efficient, transparent and, ultimately, more cost-effective or economically viable. We believe in the parliamentary group that the choice of this method leads to transparent functioning and management of the euro monetary policy, as well as to timely regulation of the Bank of Slovenia infrastructure and uniform rules of use. Such a proposal represents minor corrections, so we believe that these amendments and additions concern, in particular, the time-consuming alignment with other related laws, the Bank of Slovenia Act, the Law on Payments and Companies, the Law on Double Price Marking, etc. This will provide the whole Eurosystem base. We are aware of the changes in the role of the Bank of Slovenia, and therefore we believe that its function of taking over the euro will become more European-oriented. In this way, the Bank of Slovenia will acquire or assume new obligations under the rules of the European Central Bank. By including in the Committee the adopted amendment that a new insurance system should be put in place with 1.7 in the legislative proposal, we will support the updated proposal of the home labour body in the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, within half an hour of the end of the 22nd item of the agenda or at the latest at 9:30. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. Agenda item - Defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the System of Payments in the Public Sector, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Here you are, Mr. Minister, Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The relatively short amendment to the law on the public sector wage system brings mainly the following solutions. Firstly, it provides for an escalation or alignment of wages with 1 July. It has been a practice in recent years to align wages with the 1st of July, which the government and the trade union sides are negotiating in view of the growth of living costs in the public sector. After a very long, demanding negotiation, there was an agreement on harmonisation of 2.35%, of which 1.3% was the overall linear wage growth and 1.05% were the so-called pay-as-you-go fund. Another novelty or other solution provided by law is the possibility of rewarding an increased amount of work outside the other framework laid down by the law for paying for work performance. This is also a response to the government's perceptions that it creates an unanimity of the pay system by introducing the possibility of paying an increased amount of work in the judiciary, in the public administration, that this was introduced years ago. We now apply this option to the whole public sector through a single provision of the Wage System Act. In this way it is possible to better pay, better reward the most burdened, efficient and successful public servants. I would like to reiterate once again that the tendency of the government to see the wage system in the public sector is regulated and transparent, but also flexible enough to allow better pay for those who work more and better. This novelty was coordinated with the negotiating group of representative public sector unions. We have 23 representative unions in the public sector. Their negotiating group shall act in accordance with the internal rules agreed upon. The negotiations ran normally. Finally, the negotiating group agreed, in accordance with its rules, to the proposed amendments to the law. However, the five unions united in the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions objected. They demanded a higher salary escalation and a different regulation of the increased volume of work. On the home working body, the head of the negotiating group of representative public sector unions, Mr Ščernjavič, proposed or proposed an initiative for the adoption of the amendment, which was then supported by the committee and agreed by the government. And this amendment solves the next situation. A key step in wage reform in the public sector and the main step planned for this year is the conclusion of a collective agreement for the public sector. We are at the conclusion of the negotiations and the law in force contains a provision under which a collective contract for the public sector will be valid under certain conditions - if signed by trade unions bringing together at least 40% of all employees in the public sector. The way in which union membership is counted is to be agreed by the government and trade unions by law. Even now, some unions are advertising with the view that they will not allow membership to count, that this is contrary to international conventions, in short, to be blocked in this process. Since we do not want to block the collective bargaining process for the public sector, we have supported the amendment that follows: if by the end of October the unions and the government fail to reach agreement on how to determine the number of members, the principle is that the public sector collective agreement is valid when signed by most representative public sector unions. However, the government will, of course, seek to make the consensus in the public sector as high as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the committee president, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u116	Nice greeting, Mr. Minister, a nice greeting to your fellow Members and fellow Members! At its 23rd emergency meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a bill amending and supplementing the law on the system of wages. The representative of the proposer, the Minister of Public Administration, said, in the context of the complementary explanation to the article of the bill, that the amendment of the law was relatively short this time and that it was in line with the large majority of the representative public sector unions, as 18 out of 23 representative public sector unions agreed with the text of the amendments. As the main content, he stressed wage escalation from 1.7.2006, which is also the practice of the last few years. In particular, he stressed that the Government, as a proponent of this law, had been led primarily by two. First, fiscal sustainability and secondly, to allow for the elimination of wage imbalances or the implementation of wage reform in the public sector. This agreement and the legal establishment of escalation is an important step towards the completion of the reform, that is to conclude a collective contract for the public sector, where they are in the final stage of negotiations and hope to be signed by autumn, as it is an essential element for the new wage system of public servants. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service who participated in the meeting had comments on Articles 4 and 7 of the bill, which had been responded to in the proposals for amendments to the committee tabled by the coalition groups, with the exception of the comments made by this service to Article 4, paragraph 4, by which the Government would determine the conditions and extent of the part of the remuneration for work under the law. However, the applicant explained that the Law on the Public Sector Wages Scheme was based on the concept that its implementation and specification were left to sub-laws and collective agreements, which the applicant took into account and thus also in defining and clarifying the provisions of Article 22a fourth paragraph. At the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, representatives of the Union of State and Social Organs of Slovenia, the Customs Union of Slovenia and the Health Union of Slovenia, Pergam, took part, stressing that all representatives or all representative unions were invited. The representative of the Union of State and Social Authorities said that the government and trade unions have been coordinating and negotiating for a total of 9 months, namely, the premium, the regression and wages. Last year an agreement was also drawn up to coordinate wages, from which they gradually moved on to the path of coordination of individual categories, especially for regressions, especially for premiums, pension insurance and salaries. The new law represents as much as the last part said, it is an indexation of salaries for this year. The trade unions consider this amendment to be a compromise proposal which they have succeeded in reaching with the government negotiating group on the way to coordination. The union's representative also stressed that all trade unions, including the Confederation, are expected to come to negotiations with the government, so that everyone participates in the formulation of opinions, opinions, comments, both on this novel and on other activities, which have been taking place for years. In the debate, some members and members of the committee opposed the draft law and wondered why there had been a difference on the one hand between the number of trade unions and the number of trade unions and regretted that trade unions had split up. They also said that it might be possible to find a difference in the elimination of imbalances from some other sources. The Minister, who participated in the meeting of the Committee, also answered the questions raised from the outset and the Committee adopted the amendments of the SDS, New Slovenia, SLS and DeSUS to Articles 4 and 7 and the amendments of the SDS Group of Members, New Slovenia, SLS to the new 7a. Article 1
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Members and Members of the Social Democrats will vote against the proposed law. For us, the proposed law is totally unacceptable because it does not respect the principle of social partnership and trade union bargaining, because the government has proposed it, without being in line with most unions, at least according to the number of members, if already according to the number of unions, and because it does not take into account the current provision of the 42nd Article under which the collective agreement for the public sector is concluded when signed by the RS Government and representative unions of the public sector from at least four different activities, whose total membership exceeds 40% of the public sector employees. I will not say what is true or not, but also the Minister has not objected to it so far, the public announcements are that trade unions that have signed a declaration of co-ordination represent significantly less than half and also 40% of the membership in trade unions on behalf of which the amendment of the law is proposed. The law is also unacceptable because it interferes with collective bargaining also on how to determine wages, as the government wants to regulate it after the new regulation rather than through collective bargaining. In particular, the proposal supported by the government is unacceptable to the Social Democrats and has been tabled by three coalition parties. This is a proposal to substantially amend the current 42nd Article of the Law and thus destroy all the social partnership achieved, as the proposal, as proposed, would affect the independence and independence of the trade union organisation, in order to coordinate views and find optimal solutions for employees in the public sector. It would no longer ensure that representatives of all activities participate in coordination, since this is the moment in the public sector, in particular, of the four activities of those whose unions are represented, and it would also affect the fact that, through a procedure that implies coercion and pressure, decisions are made under pretext as if they were in line with the social partners. As a result of this way of working the ruling coalition, we also made a public statement immediately after the communication on the non-conformity of the law, but we also said at the meeting of the parent working body that the conduct of the ruling coalition and the government representative seemed extremely unacceptable and also significantly different from the declared principles of how important laws such as wage laws and other issues relating to relations between union and economic partners would be adopted in the National Assembly. I think the ministry and the government would have achieved enough and perhaps too much if we could ensure that wages are harmonised. I would also understand this wage coordination with a smaller consensus, but interference with the way in which overtime and special efficiency are determined and, in particular, changing the collective partnership is unacceptable content. I must say that I do not understand such behaviour by the government and the coalition, and I still express at least the minimum hope that they will learn their wrong conduct and that Article 7a will not be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kokalj, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u120	Good-bye, everybody! The recently adopted amendment to the law did not cover a uniform scheme for the payment of part-time wages for work performance for an increased volume of work in the public sector as a whole. The provisions of the Public Servants Act only regulate this for part of the public sector. The current proposal concerns the payment of labour performance on the basis of an increased level of work, while the funds will be provided from savings on the non-replacement of public servants in the event of a longer absence due to illness, care, child protection, etc. or any other longer absences or other budget items. In specific organisations with educational and educational content, however, the applicant retains the current arrangements for a certain amount and payments of additional weekly learning and teaching obligations. The way in which payments are made is regulated by sectoral laws; the change in the way in which they have been made may result in additional financial consequences. The draft law also removes the consent of the founder to pay for additional work performance for the sale of goods and services on the market. The main objectives of the amendments and the amendment of the law are to pay for the increased volume of work and harmonisation from the initial and basic public sector salaries as of 1 July 2006, the Institute of Increased Labour is largely intended for specific projects, the Presidency of the European Union, the abolition of judicial backlogs, the abolition of waiting in health care, etc., for which funds will be provided separately. In the first review of the amendment and the amendment of the law, coordination was also carried out with trade unions on the basis of which a new Article 7a was adopted on the Committee, which regulates the criteria for signing the collective agreement for the public sector, unless agreed by 31.10.2006. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the public sector wage system.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u122	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues. In considering the amendment to the Law on the Public Sector Wages System, it should be noted in the introduction that this is a novelty that is coordinated with most representative public sector unions, as it was agreed by both the proposer and union representatives by 18 out of 23 representative public sector unions, and I expect that we will not assess the policy whether or not they had the right powers to negotiate. The main purpose of the amendment is to harmonise public sector wages as the last harmonisation was carried out on 1 June 2005 and the law provides that the value of payment classes is normally harmonised once a year. The amount or percentage of the increase in the starting salary, as well as the share of the funds intended to eliminate the payment imbalances, were agreed by most unions and there is no reason why the law in question should not be adopted today. Of course, with the proposed share of wage increases, it is possible to discuss for a long time whether salaries for public servants should be higher or higher. In doing so, we must stress in particular that a slightly lower wage growth in recent years is logical, as we have left to private sector wages to capture wage growth in the public sector, which, as we all know, was slightly too high a few years ago. The law, however, brings another important novelty: it is a uniform arrangement for the payment of part-time wages for work performance for an increased work volume. The system of payment of public servants, as followed by the last amendment of the legislation, leads to as much uniformity, transparency and transparency as possible, but of course this does not mean or must not mean, at the same time, that there are limited or even impossible opportunities for awarding more burdensome and at the same time more successful and effective public servants. In addition, it should be pointed out that the applicant in the introduction of the law states that resources for increased work will be provided from savings due to the justified absence of other public servants, as well as from other budget lines, where this will be necessary for major state projects. In particular, payments for the increased volume of work will be regulated by the Government by a regulation and leave to other independent national authorities internal acts arrangements. Such a solution raises certain questions and concerns, but we expect that there will be no major deviations in practice between the government and other state authorities on this issue. Some dilemmas have also been raised on the Committee with regard to the new Article 7a of the Act's amended proposal. Article 42 of the Public Sector Wages Act provides in paragraph 1 that the public sector collective agreement is concluded when signed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative public sector unions of at least four different activities, whose total membership exceeds 40% of the public sector employees. The law also provides that representative unions shall allow the identification of the number of members of the union and that the government and representative unions shall agree on how to determine the number of members. The new 7a article of the novelty, which we are considering today, lays down a time limit for an agreement on how to identify the number of members of representative unions, since otherwise the collective contract for the public sector will be concluded once it is signed by most representative unions. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware that such a solution is not the best, but the lack of agreement on how to determine the number of members of trade unions should not and cannot be the reason for the non-conclusion of the collective agreement. In the Slovenian People's Party, we expect that Article 7a will further encourage both government and trade unions to identify or verify the number of members of individual unions. Members of the Slovenian People's Party Group will support the bill under consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u124	Your Honors are here! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the public sector wage system could, according to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group, be a dangerous law. It is particularly dangerous for the labour market situation in the public sector. We are, on the one hand, reminded by the unions or, rather, by those representatives of 81,000 people in a working relationship, who are tried by their mother's working body, the chairman of the committee, the competent minister and the author of this law to conceal and hide them as though they do not exist. Once again, we are talking about the non-removal of 81,000 workers. According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, it is irresponsible of the executive branch of power, both in this national assembly, namely the ruling majority, as well as by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to try to cover up this disagreement or rather to try to eliminate the efforts and takeover of these unions. Finally, we must be aware that, despite the decisions on the new trends of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia through the Partnership for Development, we must not do so and through this form, and I will use the term on purpose to play so much of the working people in our country. Members and Members of the Slovenian National Party Group have received many wishes in the last period for the interest of workers in this law. The three questions that we are referring to the minister in turn were presented. For the first time, how the content of EPE 896/IV will affect the quality of work, therefore, is a matter of quality of work. Further, how this will affect the workload of employees and from when the work volume is increased is the same as the work performance. Therefore, according to our assessment, the increased volume of work should not and should not be equal to work performance. On the other hand, the content followed by the proposal of the law will unfortunately lead to a situation where, in certain professions within the public sector, it will only be possible to be successful if someone goes to hospital. And if Members and Members agree to such a tendency or direction of work performance, then we can no longer say that Slovenian legislation follows the normative part of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which continues to follow the content of the social state. As regards the written correspondence that has taken place, I believe that both within the other parliamentary groups, by the Confederation of Public Sector Unions of Slovenia, we are reminded that they do not adhere to the big words of both the chairman of the committee and the minister of representativeness or, rather, to the agreement of trade unions and to the positive appeal of trade unions to this law. The introduction lists several unions that disagree with the above-mentioned content of the law before us. But they point out, according to our assessment, five essential elements that know, as I said, roughly cut into the system of work itself. First of all, time pressure. According to our assessment, that is, when we are talking about a marriage that touches on social, employment and the last prize for work, that is pay, the government of the Republic of Slovenia should not put trade unions or those with whom the law is spoken of in time pressure. Next. The definition of performance or the size of the work. Last but not least, I am sorry that I have only so many seconds, mentioned in all likelihood, the adoption of this law would in practice result in the inability to obtain this part of the salary due mainly to different interpretations by the operators of this law. We will not support the bill in the national party's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The Law on the ratio of wages in the public sector is, by its very nature, probably attracts more attention than some other laws, including more thinking, probably even individual ambitions, as well as opposition. We can see that this has happened again when we adopt proposals for changes this time. The fundamental purpose of this law is not disputed in any way if it is a fundamental purpose, as stated, which only refers to ensuring that wages are properly regulated, to correct the correction and, if it is not for certain other interests and proposals listed as novelties. If it were only the will of whether or not to harmonise wages, it would probably be possible to reach a significantly higher consensus. He's gone now. It would probably be a routine for us to adopt this law. Now it's not a routine business. We see that some weaknesses are being corrected by individuals with their proposals for amendments, and in our Group of Members, in DeSUS, we think that these proposals are worth considering, not only reflection, but also support. If it were just wage coordination, the procedure would not be disputed, nor would the speed be disputed, but trade is linked, tying some other proposals to wage coordination may be problematic. We feel that some new additional elements, additional proposals in the law that have led not only to differences, but also to a number of contradictions, have been skillfully introduced. Escalation in itself is not problematic, it is not problematic to divide escalation into linear wage increases and to eliminate disproportionates for us. The Government's ambition to ensure the sustainability of public finances and that wage imbalances are corrected is also supported and concerns are raised as follows. First of all, there is a new attempt to set up part of the salary for work performance and the equation is almost set between work performance and increased volume. This is not the case, many object to this and it would probably be appropriate if more opportunities were devoted to this debate and if a better or even compromise were found. He's not really here right now. With regard to sub-legislation, we also agree that the proposal is not good for regulation. And the amendment to Article 4 at least partially corrects this competence or the exclusive competence of the Government to regulate the criteria and conditions for assessing a more successful work or a greater scope of work. So it's some kind of tied-up trade, even in time, because it's about definitely having more time if we don't tie the escalation with the proposal to reward the more successful. It is not necessary for this to be linked and it is not necessary for all to be enforced 1.7.2006. Thus, more or less the appearance of time distress, more or less the virtual truth, which certainly had its purpose. Perhaps this purpose can also be found in the textual reference in the proposal by the proposer that some trade unions probably do not want to change because they defend their privileges and, of course, other trade unions want to change because they want to shake off their subjugation. In this way it has been possible to sow doubts successfully or perhaps even conflicts between the various fields of unions, but this is certainly not good. In this way these nine-month negotiations did not go well, they were not successful. Most, at least according to the number of members, are dissatisfied and we feel that this is not good. The first and second amendments will therefore be supported by the Group of Members. Otherwise, the law, but not the whole parliamentary group, will also receive support.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The changes that are the subject of the amendment are smaller, but in the SDS we look at these changes from a broader perspective. I would therefore like to start by saying that the public sector as a whole has been wage-consumingly disorderly and practically non-systemic. However, we know that a good system is somehow also a condition in the European Union and that is why we have been warned from the European Union that we must somehow regulate this system. The fact is that when we harmonised most of our legislation, we also had to tackle this tough nut. In 2002, the first legislation was adopted to regulate the public sector. Last but not least, why this area is so important - more than 130,000 people are employed here, and every year only a few hundred billion are paid; whether it's 500 or 600 billion, it's completely irrelevant after all, we see that it's extremely large numbers that affect the country's ability to pay and even the budgetary sustainability of the country, if we do a bit of cariculating. That is why, of course, this area is extremely important; it must be treated with extreme care and also treated with great responsibility. However, the new legislation cannot be fully brought to fruition until negotiations between the partners on the collective agreement have been concluded. And that's where it starts to get complicated. This area covers 23 unions, and it is normal to find someone who opposes certain solutions in such a large number. And, of course, the same goes for these changes. It is no wonder, therefore, that trade unions have divided themselves into those who see benefits in the regulated wage system in the public sector and others who are opposed for various reasons. There's 18 in the first drawer, and five in the second drawer. Even because of this mode of coordination, the system has not been fully operational since 2002. Therefore, in the SDS we support the solution set out in 7a. Article 1(2) Here I would like to remind you that there has been a misunderstanding between trade unions regarding the number of members of representative trade unions, because some, as has already been heard today, oppose the identification of membership. We therefore consider that the solution, if no agreement is reached by 31.10.2006 and thus threatens the full implementation of the solutions, is considered to be a contract if the majority of the representative unions join, which was also adopted on a proposal from the trade union at the meeting of the committee. Perhaps it is also possible to discuss this solution and perhaps not the best, but it is significantly better than the non-conclusion of the agreement, the non-conclusion of the act and that the whole area remains practically unresolved in the air. The analogy also applies to the solutions that are the subject of this consideration today. It is about increasing the scope of work, evaluating it and coordinating it with inflation, as well as in other sectors. It must be recognised that in this sector, public administration has been lagging behind wages more than is necessary in recent times. It is true that this is only part of the wage, and part of it is the compensations that have been made in the course of time. Since coordination cannot be achieved if the novel is not adopted, the real alignment of wages with inflation is supported in the SDS, and similar opinions are also representatives of trade unions who believe that enforcement is necessary in order to eliminate the imbalances between areas. However, the system, which is regulated, is necessary if we know that every year, as I said in this system, a few hundred billion SITs a year, we will support the proposed changes in the SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading, this is the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate paragraphs 4 and 7a and three amendments. First of all, Article 4, where an amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group was added. Anybody want a word? Mr. Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u130	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the LDS, we find that the government has not aligned the bill with most of the membership of the public sector unions. Therefore, the solution of the ruling coalition today to social dialogue and the establishment of trust between the social partners is poor. In the event of a failed agreement on how to determine the membership of the unions, the criterion for the validity of the collective agreement will be the number of trade unions signed and not the number of their members. This solution also proves that there is a decommissioning of dialogue, that the government is trying to avoid negotiating with most of its employees in the public sector. The competent minister has thus shown unwillingness to seek coordinated solutions with most of the members of the union. Initially, negotiations took place very well, but in some part of the dialogue, for such or other reasons, the Minister began to break down the system he had set up, because of the fact that he did not want to take employees in the public sector as an equal partner, but the government placed itself in the position of superior. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u131	Mr. Tarchoon, I would like to warn you that we are talking about an amendment to Article 4. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u132	Yes, Mr Vice-President, I take note of your warnings, but I must say that our amendments are just saying that collective bargaining is still the basis, not that the government is putting itself in the position of superior, as I have just said. And if you'll allow me to move on. The facts we are now learning suggest that the government has embarked on negotiations with great prudence and underestimation. New payment policies are opposed by doctors, police officers, judges and schoolchildren. With successful collective bargaining, which has been typical of the last ten years, we have avoided unnecessary conflicts between employers and workers, and thus economic damage, which is bad for both sides and, consequently, for the country. In the House of Members, it is not reasonable that the changes that determine the payment of the increased volume of work are decided by the State Assembly under time pressure caused by the need to introduce an escalation of wages before 1 July of this year. The applicable law provides that payment grade values are normally harmonised once a year and that each time the value of payment grade from the payment scale is determined by law. The proposal by the trade unions that the inclusion of the provisions on the increased scope of work in the law should be addressed in due consideration and separately from the coordination on wage escalation was rejected. The government has confused the key concepts that determine the individual parts of the salary in the design of over-supply solutions, and the implementation of the law will lead to different interpretations. Since the government will determine the conditions and extent of the work of the remuneration under the law, this is a regulation, while for public servants in other state bodies the regulation of the matter is laid down by law, it also points out that the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly will result in a different system of remuneration for the payment of work performance between public servants, which will result in inequality. In the House of Members, too, given that so far part of the wages for work performance are determined in accordance with the applicable law on the basis of the criteria and criteria agreed upon by the Public Sector Collective Agreement, we believe that we should consider regulating at least the common ground or criteria for regulating this issue, or leave it to collective bargaining, as I have said, subject to our amendments. It is therefore proposed that part of the salary for the payment of work performance on the basis of the criteria and criteria agreed with the public sector collective contract be determined. If this and the other amendments of the LDS Group are adopted, we will support the law, otherwise we cannot provide support.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u133	I'd like to ask you for a few quick reactions. I waited. Here you go, Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Chairman. That's why I'm going to be faster so there's nothing wrong. As I have foretold, I support this amendment, and I must oppose the trade unions turning into one, the other, the third, or the fourth. This, however, can be effective in terms of political technology. This, of course, means the weakening of unions, and then we will probably bow to one, the other, or the third drawer when we have them distributed. We are not now talking about which are more genuine unions or more fair unions, but about those whose powers or whose meaning is also disassociated by this law. And this part of the amendment that we're talking about right now is giving them back something that they're trying to do, at least that's what I think they're trying to take. I am against the fact that unions are disassociating themselves, although this time they have fallen upon their hearts, and I hope that this will not happen too often, because then those who should defend will no longer have an entire body to defend them, but only parts that are distributed through individual drawers.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u135	Mr. Germich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! When we discussed, Mr Minister, that I asked you in the question of the House whether you are still insisting on the concept that you have set up, that is to say that you are uniformly regulating a system of wages that should be transparent and fair. Of course, today we have a proposal for a text of the law amending the law on the public sector wage system, where you are also trying to pass agreements, past the consensus on social bargaining to introduce certain changes. In the amendment of our Group of Members, it is an ambition that at least part of this, which is, of course, always the basis for wages, namely the successful negotiation of social partners, can be reintroduced into the legal text. Of course, I am joining all those who are talking about making this change in the context of a very big time crisis, in the context of the change that is needed, due to the escalation of wages. Of course, you have also overlooked here the warnings of trade unions, which have proposed that you take more time to regulate the content in such a way that you can define it in an in-depth manner and also support it in a coordinated manner in the social dialogue and then come with a legal text that will also allow Members to give up any doubt about the correctness of these decisions. Here I would like to remind you that you consider the 22nd Article to be a working success an increased volume of work, with the very text of the law making it clear that you will regulate this by a regulation without collective bargaining and that for a certain part of the state administration, of course this will not be the case and these content will be regulated in other laws. The question to me is when I compare the texts of the laws of both the Medical Service Act and the texts of the Law on the Public Sector Salary System, of course we are not talking about consistency here, at least in the Law on Medical Services, we are not talking about the work of the Salary for Work Performance, because there the text of the article defining these contents - this is article 8 of the Law, in article 41c, where new paragraphs are added, speaks only of the amount of the supplement for the increased volume of work or the over-average burden, with the over-average burden actually being deleted from the text of the Law on the System of Public Interest. Speaking of transparency, I have already reminded you of the anomaly that may occur this week, and, of course, in this context, I ask why, in the text of the law, as set out in Article 21, Article 22, the consent of the founder for payment of the increased volume of work is deleted, and again, I would point out that this is not the case in the Medical Service Act, because, in this case, it is a difference, it is necessary to pay the supplement for the increased volume of work to obtain the Ministry's consent, that is to say, the Minister. I am talking here about specific problems and cases because you are talking about defending a single and fair and transparent pay system. And just by regulating part of the segment in another legislation, part of the segment in the regulation, avoiding collective bargaining, it shows that you are doing exactly the opposite of what you are advocating, namely for a uniform, transparent and fair pay system. And in order to be able to correct at least a part of this, it is reasonable to support the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 4 in order to maintain awareness of the need to ensure such changes by consensus for those who will feel these changes most. I therefore appeal to Members and Members, to colleagues and colleagues to listen to the arguments that it makes sense to support such an amendment, and we will do so in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u138	Thank you very much. With regard to the increased workload. The purpose of the novelty is to simplify the payment of the increased volume of work for the public sector as a whole, and you have probably overlooked that in the transitional provision we are repealing the articles of the Medical Service Act which regulate this precisely in order to achieve unity. The increased volume of work already exists and is being paid out in public administration and all those in the parliamentary groups that have criticised this regulation today should first answer the question of how many of your experts in the parliamentary groups receive, I am sure, a reasonable payment of the increased volume of work for over-average burdens. But when you look at this question, whether it is really necessary to take this, or really those who are doing significantly more than a normal expectation, we should not be further rewarded. When you answer that question, you may think differently. The ratio to work performance, i.e. work performance, the increased volume of work is clear, the mass of money for work performance will be determined annually in agreement with the unions, the increased volume of work, i.e. the percentage or volume of resources for this segment will be determined by a government regulation and, as already stated today, will be financed by an increased volume of work from pay savings and, in certain cases, projects of national interest, such as the elimination of waiting types, as well as from specific budgetary resources. Whether it is really necessary to regulate everything in collective agreements, or whether you are an employer in certain elements, such as paying for an increased amount of work, may also allow for some managerial autonomy. I am in favour of a second position, all the essential issues of the pay system are regulated in the collective agreement, the pay grade, all the supplements, the criteria for determining performance. However, a certain part of the decision should be left to the employer and his management autonomy. I have to answer the question of consistency with the representative unions: can the government and the National Assembly overtake the will of the 18 representative unions that have agreed to these amendments. I will not now list them and read their names, but it is a very important part of the public sector. Some of you are talking about the number of members, and I'm curious which one of you has counted the accession statements of the five trade unions united in the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions. I don't know how you got that information. Other trade unions, these eighteen, claim to have at least as many members as trade unions do in the Confederacy. Union leaders, negotiators working on the interests of membership, I'm sure of that. And at a given point, it's just that the union interests are different. Some trade unions are very likely to be more interested in moving to a new system as quickly as possible, it is said to sign a collective contract for the public sector as it improves the salary position of some pay groups, such as nurses, officials - especially with university education, i.e. in the seventh tariff group, and many others. It is true, however, that it does not improve some wage positions, especially those groups that have already settled their salaries, such as education with an annex to the 2002 collective agreement. Remember that, at the same time as the law on the public sector wage system, which is supposed to be based on the principle of the uniformity of the pay system, one of the neighbouring rooms negotiated the conclusion of an annex to the collective education contract and then it came to that. And if you ask the unions in the public sector today, most of these unions will tell you that this annex is one of the root causes of the imbalances that have arisen. And now it's only right that it's up to those who had to wait. Why do we delete the founder's consent, Mr. Germich's answer? Here you have confused, this consensus does not refer to the payment of the increased volume of work, but to the payment of labour performance from market activities. Why are we deleting this agreement? Because it represents an unnecessary bureaucratic procedure. The rules of the game are clearly defined and can be implemented in those public institutions which also carry out market activity, supervision whenever they exercise ex post supervision. It is totally pointless, however, that in dozens or hundreds of cases where this is happening, officials of the ministries review the correctness of these payments every time and are lost in papers, and these are unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles or bureaucratic procedures that we want to get rid of. In principle, we trust the councils of public institutions, if there are anomalies, the system will eliminate them, the typical case is also the pay we discussed yesterday on the basis of your question of the mission, where you asked questions about the pay exactly that director we have already detected as a problem, and the Minister of Education has already taken action and ordered the world to immediately remove the decision and demand the refund of the overpaid salary. It is better that the rules of the game are clear and that sanctions in case of infringements are sharp, remember, until we changed the law 1.7 last year, there was no basis at all for demanding the refund of overpaid wages. Now we have this base. So when it is breached, sanctions should be harsh, which is much better than losing their way in bureaucratic procedures, where officials at ministries issue different consents and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u140	Mr. Minister, I'd like to give you a heads-up right now. Either you're embarrassed, or you're cleverly turning the word on purpose. For you spoke in the present performance, in the beginning, as if those who support the amendment were undermining the proposal to reward those who are doing more and better. No, no, no. That's what I was saying. We have explicitly supported the fact that those who work are good, who are doing more rewards. We do not agree, however, that it is taken or given this right to regulate the criteria only by a government regulation. If it did not matter what act and who regulates these criteria, who determines these conditions, then you probably wouldn't be fighting for it to be you. Ad personam will probably be you. Some of us feel that others should be involved, and I feel that there is nothing wrong with it. And even those unions that talk about 81,000 of their members that we haven't counted, neither do I, but if they were 20, 30 or 40 thousand less, it's still a very respectful and obedient group of people. We should listen to them, and they speak as we do now.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u141	Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr President, once again for your word. Of course, Mr Minister, I have just pointed out with reference to the case in the context of the Member's question that it is a very important system of control over payments. And I'm sure you'll agree with me that the four-month-a-month-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-a-year-along has come to an anomaly. And, of course, I cannot agree with you when we delete the text referred to in Article 22, that there is no need to delete the text in order to obtain the consent of the founder. Here it is not possible to read precisely, Mr Minister, that "it is for the performance of the sale of goods and services or the effects of rationalisation". And if you read your 22nd Article, you will also find the effects of rationalisation in the text of work performance based on increased volume. When we talk about these contents, then we must read very precisely, for in Article 22, paragraph 22, it reads, "which exceeds the expected results of work in a given month, if this can be done more rationally by the user of the budget!. So it's the same text and it's the same content. And here we should carefully read the texts that we write in one article and another, because skill will then be the one that will allow a certain director to take advantage of the individual text of paragraph 1 of a specific article and then refer to the rationale for rational action, without any consent from the founder as the first stage of control. And here I think, Mr. Secretary, that you're failing to do so. I would also like to draw your attention to the collective negotiations referred to in Article 22. See, explicitly in Article 22 of the Law, we retain part of the salary for the work performance of a public official determined "on the basis of the criteria and criteria agreed with the public sector collective contract". Therefore, part of the salary for work performance in Article 22 in paragraph 2 shall be explicitly recorded. Then we go to Article 22a, where we say that the increased scope of work is not covered by Article 22(1) and (2), and you say that the government will regulate this content by regulation. So we regulate part of the content by collective bargaining, we negotiate, we try to find arrangements, while for "increased scope of work" - you do not want to regulate this content in the same way. Is this not a strange practice in a single, transparent and fair pay system that we are building for 150 000 and more, given that you are failing to save, as you said, a reduction in the number of employees in public administration. When we read these contents carefully, we come to differing treatments on a single set, because paragraphs 22 and 22 are very closely linked, as they both talk about work performance, and Article 22a as a complement to work performance on the basis of an enlarged article. And for one, you have one strategy, the criteria and the criteria are determined on the basis of collective bargaining, and in Article 22a this system does not apply. The first and second paragraphs of Articles 22 and 21 do not need to be regulated according to the criteria and criteria of the collective agreement or collective bargaining for this part, but will be regulated by a regulation. There was no clear and transparent response to a specific part of which you are not responding consistently to the comments of the legislative and legal service in which it was pointed out by the legislative and legal service. To avoid all of this, these warnings are followed by monitoring the public sector wage system in past times. This is a matter of cooperation between Parliament and the government, and this is why these warnings today, through the amendment to Article 4, are intended for you to reconsider whether we are really building a single, transparent pay system, and, of course, also to Members and Members, to follow the same procedure, the same way of negotiating this very important issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u143	Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u144	Both elements, both part of the labour pay resulting from rationalisation and the increased volume referred to in Article 22a, are regulated by a government regulation. One has already been adopted, not for a long time, talking about the work performance of rationalisation and the labour performance of market activities; the other is what the law now foresees. With regard to this warning given by the Legal and Legislative Service, there will be different interpretations in different bodies, and that is all I ask you. Do you think that we could just write in the law what percentages of increased work per public official are allowed, I think this would be significantly too difficult. There is also a possibility that the regulation would settle this issue for all state authorities, but then we would be in a situation where the government regulates something for the national assembly, which is unacceptable. We already have practice in a number of elements to govern certain elements of rights, certain rights also in the field of remuneration, and the National Assembly regulates them for its employees by its own internal act. It is also due to the principle of the division of power, but in practice it is always the case that the State Assembly, the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors and other independent state bodies regulate things by analogy and comply with the rules adopted by the Government by its regulation, it was the practice and I think that we can trust these bodies. It's not about anyone, it's about the National Assembly, the Court of Auditors, the Constitutional Court, it's about the institutions that will also determine the rules on the increased work for their employees, because they already are today, because they already are. As I said before, your employees, your colleagues in the parliamentary groups are receiving this allowance today. There is no collective agreement on this subject. The law does not set any limits. The government has set a limit by regulation for its employees and the National Assembly has set it for itself. It works, in practice it works, but when we want to extend it to the whole public sector, everything is wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u145	I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 4 and put to the debate the amendment of the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy and the Group of Members of the Social Democrats to Article 7a, both amendments of the motioners are substantively the same, they foresee that this Article is deleted. Mr. Germich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr Minister, I would not like to say that you are unsuccessful in collective bargaining, because I wish you to be successful in this, because you are deciding on a large group of people who are also very dependent on these agreements. But I would like to go back to when you talk about who speaks for whom today, who has the information. Don't you find it strange, Mr. Minister, that someone is just operating on a number that talks about 80,000, and that you should at least check whether this number is really credible and someone doesn't just mention it. And that some who are supposed to represent this group are telling you that the solutions we bring with this law are not right. And then with the amendment on the committee, which we actually miss in the way we negotiate, it seems to me a very simple way that we can look at from your side, which speaks very rhetorically about what you're trying to tell us here today - who knows today who the representative unions in number 18, who they represent, who the rest of the representative unions and who they represent, because they all say that they represent everything. I think we should be very sensitive, very sensitive to this information as a minister. And we should, if we wanted to, which is significantly harder - it is significantly harder to talk and find a solution for the majority, it is much easier to find a solution by means of a regulation to regulate matters. A few small groups of unions that can be numbered since the 23s, 18 in the majority, and by the number of memberships, let's say significantly less representative than those who today warn you that certain solutions in the law, as it brings them, do not agree. Of course, it would make sense for the amendment adopted by the committee to be deleted today as a warning that it would not be possible to "bypass" around to pass on a very broad, very strong group of people who are very bound by marriage. Therefore, it seems to me that it would be the only rational and meaningful decision to delete Article 7a on the basis of the warnings we have today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u147	Mr. Rezman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Well, let me make a little joke for the introduction. Who could have thought there was something wrong with the Russian air? Mr. Germic and I are neighbours from the Russian Republic, and we are the only ones who are now at odds with Mr. Virant. Besides, we're political opponents, so there's nothing agreed. However, I would just say that, in conjunction with that amendment to Article 4, where we have already talked about disavowing trade unions, and with regard to the number that one recognises and the other not, the members of individual trade unions and the attempt to show off certain unions from one drawer and the other from the other hand - that is, unfortunately, literally - we will quickly reach that low percentage of our unions that we will be able to make all the decisions with, and that is probably not your ambition. And if it's not your ambition, then I guess you'll say, "I'll do something about it so it doesn't happen." To prevent this possible manipulation, to prevent this killing of wedges between unions and to make sure that all those we have any role to play in understanding negotiations as hard, hard work and not as easy as possible, which, with a small percentage of the body of representative unions, can be achieved in as easy a way as possible. That is why, Minister, I also expect you to support this union, that there will be no obvious, that it is part of our unions and that we can do whatever we want with their help.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u149	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u150	Thank you very much. In the private sector, in the economy under the Collective Contracts Act, it is considered that one representative business union is sufficient that the collective agreement is generally applicable to that sector or to that activity. In the public sector, the government will strive to achieve the highest possible degree of consensus in the conclusion of the public sector collective agreement, but at the same time we are firmly determined to introduce a new pay system because the old pay system, the existing pay system, is both inoperable and inequitable, or there are certain wage imbalances. When the law was adopted in 2002, it was very clear how wage imbalances would go away, that this would mean that some, those who were behind wages would grow faster than inflation, and that some others who were properly placed in the system or were overvalued compared to others would grow slightly slower, so to speak, under inflation growth. And now that the government has set up its negotiating venues, its concrete proposal to place jobs in wage classes, some unions have come to see that, in terms of government and other trade unions, their members are already adequately placed in the pay system and that their salaries will be slightly slower in the coming years. And that's probably why it's normal at this point there's been a difference between unions. We would like this to be concluded as soon as possible, because it is not in the interest of the government as a large public sector employer, that trade unions are at odds with each other in the public sector, we would like to conclude this as soon as possible, conclude a collective agreement and move into a new pay system. That's what this is about. And I must stress this as far as the government is concerned, the number of union membership is not a problem, so we must not count it, the unions must agree. If trade unions consider how they will count membership, the government here will not interfere and section 42 of the Wages Act can be implemented. But if it gets stuck here, then we have to have a way out of the block, unless we agree or think it would be best to take the rifle and throw it into the corn at this point when we're very close to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendments, which we will decide today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda or at the latest at 9.30 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 22. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal for a decision on the recognition of the independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Montenegro. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I understand the government's representatives are not in the hall, they're on their way. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr. Božu Cerar, to the Secretary of State for further explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u152	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! On 3 June 2006, the Assembly of Montenegro confirmed the referendum result on independence and accepted the declaration of independence of Montenegro. On 5 June, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Montenegro called on the international community to recognise the full international legal personality of his country and also addressed such a request to Minister Rupl. In Article 60, the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia and Montenegro ensured the right of a Member State to initiate a procedure after the expiry of three years to amend the state status or to withdraw from the State. On the basis of this and in line with EU recommendations, on 1 March this year, the Montenegrin Assembly adopted a special law on the referendum on Montenegro's state-of-law status and also called for a referendum on independence on 21 May. The citizens of Montenegro were identified as a single country at the referendum with the required majority of votes. The referendum is estimated by the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights of the OSCE and other observers in accordance with international democratic electoral standards. The referendum was welcomed by the entire international community; the EU assessed the referendum as a sign of the maturity of the political forces and the population of Montenegro. At the same time, it confirmed the further European perspective of the Western Balkans on the basis of the Stabilisation and Association Process. Slovenia has always strongly supported the implementation of democratic reforms in Montenegro and has provided concrete assistance in its efforts to bring Euro-Atlantic ties closer, realizing that only successful Montenegro can contribute significantly to stability and progress in the region. The Republic of Slovenia has already stressed in its 1999 foreign policy declaration respect for the right of peoples to self-determination and therefore respects and welcomes the democratic decision of the Montenegrin voters to establish an independent state. Taking into account the referendum decision of the Montenegrin people and in view of the excellent and comprehensive relations between our countries, which we want to continue to strengthen, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already proposed to the National Assembly on 8 June 2006 that it adopt a decision on the recognition of the Republic of Montenegro as an independent and sovereign State, immediately after the adoption of the Council's position on general affairs and external relations of the European Union. Slovenia, as a member of the Union, is committed to common positions in the field of foreign and security policy. On the same day, this is June 8th, the government also proposed to the Committee on Foreign Policy that it agree to open the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia in Podgorica on the date of recognition. The Committee adopted that decision. At the meeting of the General Affairs and External Relations Council on 12 June, the external ministers of the European Union took a decision to further strengthen relations between the European Union and its Member States with the independent Montenegro State and the Member States were left to implement this decision in accordance with their internal legal order. Montenegro has already been recognised as an independent and independent country by a number of countries, including some of the members of the European Union, all the permanent members of the UN Security Council, neighbouring countries and the former SFRJ, and the Republic of Serbia also recognised Montenegro on 15 June. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you vote in favour of the decision on the Slovenian recognition of the Republic of Montenegro as an independent and sovereign state. On this occasion, the Government or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will propose the immediate conclusion of diplomatic relations and the opening of the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia in Podgorica. We hope that Slovenia will open its embassy in Montenegro in a short time and that the High Representative of the Republic of Slovenia will be present at the opening. Respected, peace, security, political stability and economic development and the social cohesion of the countries of South-Eastern Europe are not only of strategic importance for our country or for the region, but for the entire European Union or the international community. Support for the approximation of the Western Balkan countries to the European Union will be one of the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency of the Union in the first half of 2008. Slovenia will, as has already been said, offer all necessary assistance and support to the Republic of Montenegro. With it, we want to continue the tradition of good and friendly relations and help each other to achieve their common goals. Before Montenegro, both the power and the opposition, it is already the responsibility to demonstrate political and national maturity in the exercise and exercise of independence. A constructive dialogue with Serbia will be needed to resolve a number of open issues related to the new status of both sides. It will be necessary to ensure further development of the country and, of course, to regulate and maintain good neighbourly relations that will contribute to stability in the region. We believe that Montenegrins will focus on these issues with full responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u153	Mr. Secretary of State, you've gone a little overboard. Mr Potč, you have the position of the Group of Social Democrats. However, you have also surprised me a bit because your parliamentary group has not announced, only Bevk has been reported that you will propose. The proposal for a decision was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body and I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Mr Jožef Jerovšk. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary of State, representatives of the government! At its 44th urgent meeting, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered a proposal for a decision on the recognition of the independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Montenegro, transmitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which responded to the declaration of independence of Montenegro adopted by the Assembly of the Republic of Montenegro on 3.6.2006. The Committee already did so on 8 June 2006, the same day the decision was taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee's debate on this point was not long since the Committee had already held at its 17th regular meeting on the same day to discuss the initiative of the Group of Members, members of the Committee from the LDS Member Club, who had proposed an extension of the meeting with the point of effort of the Republic of Slovenia for the recognition of the independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Montenegro as soon as possible, but had already informed the members of the Committee that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had adopted the above-mentioned decision at its meeting that morning and had forwarded it to the National Assembly. In the debate, the members of the Committee supported the decision to recognise the Republic of Montenegro as a sovereign, independent country and to make this act of great symbolic importance. In fact, Montenegro has met all the required conditions set by the European Union or the international community and has thus opened the way for international recognition. Slovenia has always supported Montenegro on its path to independence, thus strengthening traditional good and friendly relations between the two countries. Perhaps I would say, however, that Slovenia, or unfortunately, will not be the first country to recognise Montenegro's independence and sovereignty today, because it was believed that the National Assembly would adopt an act of recognition at the regular meeting of the National Assembly on the basis of an assessment that this was not an emergency, but a regulatory democratic process, a self-evident process. I would point out, however, that Slovenia is a friend of Montenegro on the one hand and a member of the European Union on the other, and the European Union has decided at a meeting of the General Affairs and External Relations Council that it will act in a uniform and joint manner on the Montenegrin issue. This is about the common knowledge and security policy of the European Union, which we have been part of for more than two years. After the discussion, the members of the Committee agreed unanimously on the proposal for a decision, thus proposing to the National Assembly that the proposal for a decision should be considered and adopted by the Foreign Policy Committee. Finally, in accordance with the law on external matters at this meeting, the Committee also discussed the proposal to open the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia in Montenegro and decided to agree to the opening of the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia in the Republic of Montenegro on the date of the recognition of the Republic of Montenegro as an independent and sovereign State. This means, of course, that with today's confirmation of the decision to recognise Montenegro, Slovenia will have an embassy in this sovereign country. Finally, I should like to say that on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Policy, I congratulate the Montenegrin people on the restoration of statehood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bevk has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u156	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The Group of Social Democrats will be pleased and pleased to support the proposal for a decision on the recognition of the sovereignty of the Republic of Montenegro. We also support the proposal for a decision to open the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia in Montenegro as soon as possible. Although the Government has rushed with a proposal for a decision on the recognition of the independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Montenegro, unfortunately, we are also late in the National Assembly as a country to be among those countries in the European and also in the world criteria which would be among the first to recognise the new country which originated in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. This seems so much more important to us if we remember how it was with the recognition of the Republic of Slovenia in 1991 and 1992. Even then Germany, as a member of the European Union, was the first country in the European Union to have rushed the decision before the decision of the external ministers of the Member States and recognised us. We were able to appreciate this very much and I am sorry - and I say this on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group here - that we have not done the same at this time as Germany did in the case of the Republic of Slovenia. Not only did she recognise us in December 1991, with validity then in early 1992, but Germany opened a general consulate in Ljubljana on 6 November 1991, says its diplomatic representation, which soon became an embassy with official recognition. That is why, as I said at the outset, we also support the opening of an embassy in Montenegro. On 3 June 2006, the Assembly of the Republic of Montenegro confirmed the referendum results and, of course, accepted the declaration of independence of Montenegro and called on the international community to recognise the full international legal personality of the Republic of Montenegro. We are now joining a large group of European and global countries that have already recognised Montenegro, and I would like to see Montenegro as a new independent state as soon as possible on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, and I wish her this new path of great success and fruitful cooperation with the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u157	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Dr Cerar, with his fellow Members, honourable Members. In opening, I would like to say that the proposal for a decision on the recognition of Montenegro's independence and sovereignty - the youngest countries in the world - brings to the New Slovenia Group a holiday atmosphere and a sense of the history of today's meeting of the National Assembly, and I am sure that such an atmosphere translates into the entire national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will reflect what I hope to announce, with at least a unanimous, positive vote for the new country in the Balkans. Today, in the week when we celebrate the 15th birthday of our country and our country and relive its way of conquering and reviving our memories, when we search through photos and documents in private albums, such as recruitment into Slovenian armed forces, so today, which has a very interesting form, if written with eight figures, the Slovenian Parliament will recognise the independent and sovereign state of Montenegro. The Balkans, with the announcement of the state of Montenegro, are getting a new image. In New Slovenia, we believe that this is an important step towards stabilising this through the millennium history of a very unstable area. Montenegro has fulfilled all the required conditions set by the European Union and is thus an open path for recognition. Of course, Slovenia is a true friend of Montenegro and, on the other hand, is a member of the European Union. At the last meeting of the General Affairs and External Relations Council, the European Union agreed that the European Union would act unitedly and together on the Montenegrin issue, as we call it the European Union's common foreign and security policy. On Sunday, 21 May 2006, Montenegro held a referendum attended by 86.5% of the 484.718 electoral beneficiaries. As everyone knows, 55.5% of voters voted in favour of Montenegro's independent state. This is, however, only 2,100 more votes than the European Union has demanded, which has set a 55% threshold for the success of the referendum, but enough, since a referendum result must be respected in a democratic society, even if it is a single vote. And in Montenegro, the referendum was held in an enviablely high democratic standard, as confirmed by many international delegations. I was lucky and obliged, together with my colleagues Jerovsk and Anderlič, to observe the progress of the referendum on some of the 1120 voters on which the Montenegrins decided on their future. The voters also came from Serbia and abroad, also from Slovenia. The election campaign and the referendum day have shown that Montenegro is undoubtedly a politically and democratically mature society capable of making complicated decisions in a democratic way and in accordance with European procedures. Montenegro has about 620,000 inhabitants, about 43% of Montenegrins, 32% of Serbs, and a quarter of them are Bosniaks, Albanians and other nationalities. Montenegro behaves with a varied millennium of history, during which there was also a single country with shorter or longer periods. For the last 88 years, she has shared fate in community with the former Yugoslav republics, and since 1992 only with Serbia. After the independence of Slovenia first, Croatia, Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina were tendered in Montenegro in March 1992. At that time, 96% of the votes won the option of living together with Serbia decisively, with which Serbia and Montenegro formed the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. When the Montenegrins decided, at the May 21st referendum, to separate themselves from the state union with Serbia, where they have been under different names since 1918, the Montenegrin Parliament proclaimed the independent state of Montenegro on 3 June 2006. With the votes of all Members present, the Montenegrin Parliament adopted a declaration on the principles on which Montenegro will be based as a stand-alone country. The declaration adopted by Parliament marks Montenegro as a multinational, multiethnic, multicultural and multireligious society based on respect for and protection of civil liberties and rights, minority rights, the principles of parliamentary democracy in the rule of law and the market economy. For its strategic objective, membership is set out in the European Union and in relation to NATO, and the State is to initiate a procedure for membership in the United Nations and other international organisations as soon as independence is declared. The declaration also mentions, inter alia, that Montenegro has a particular interest and has all the resources necessary to build good and friendly relations with Serbia. With this moment, the state community of Serbia and Montenegro has officially ceased to exist and one more country has emerged in Europe. At its 1st meeting, following the declaration of Montenegro's independence in the Montenegrin Parliament, the Slovenian Government adopted a decision on the recognition of the independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Montenegro and sent it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for admission. On the same day, on 8 June, it was considered by the Committee of the National Assembly for Foreign Policy and read "The Republic of Slovenia recognises the Republic of Montenegro as an independent and sovereign state." propose to the National Assembly for admission. Members of the New Slovenia will be happy to support this decision. Friendly Montenegro wants a strong political homogenisation that will help overcome obstacles towards European and Euro-Atlantic integration. We want the law of summation to apply in Montenegro or to apply the equation: Unionists + independants before the referendum = joint winners after the referendum and winners for the future of Montenegro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, and thank you, Vice-President Klavori, for having led the session so far. I invite Mr Brenčič to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. I welcome the representatives of the government and all of you, colleagues and fellow Members! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we firmly believe that, with the collapse of the last state community in the territory of our formerly common country, this is through the disengagement of Serbia and Montenegro, the establishment of a positive foundation or basis for a much more genuine interaction between the nations of both the former SFRY and co-existence and the establishment of a better relationship with the wider European environment. For the Republic of Slovenia, this new fact in the Balkans is a new, immediate challenge to develop, in an unselfish manner and in the principle of equality, both for the new Republic of Montenegro and for the legal successor of this decomposing community, namely with the Republic of Serbia, a rather new relationship at both economic and human levels. Just as the Slovenians, with great gratitude in those crucial moments when we were in a similar situation as the Montenegrins today, accepted all recognition of our statehood as something that has affected our new hope, which has made us happy, we are as now a sovereign state literally called and obliged to do so now by us and to recognize the independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Montenegro. The decision taken at the referendum by the people of Montenegro, and indirectly by the State authorities of the Republic of Serbia, is, in our opinion, a new, major contribution to the establishment of lasting peace, stability and co-existence in the eternally troubled Balkans, and on this basis new opportunities are also put in place to improve the quality of life of people in the area and their faster integration into the security and economic integration of the European Union as well as the world. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will unanimously support the decision on the recognition of independence and independence, sovereignty of the Republic of Montenegro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Pečet to present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u162	Your Honors are here! Let us also express the view or position, or better put, of the vote of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. I'd like to highlight our view through three moments. First, the moment of the Montenegrin side or our assessment of what or why it is good for them. If Slovenia has decided about the same path ahead of time, today we can say with certainty that Slovenia has made the right decision, and with even greater certainty we can say that Montenegro has also made a fair and good decision if it follows all those standards that apply within the European Union, and we hardly doubt that. I would further like to point out why it is necessary for Slovenia to submit its positive yes to recognition. Firstly, the Republic of Slovenia, through a declaration on the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia, stressed the respect for the rights of the peoples to self-determination and our duty after our assessment, i.e. also Members and Members of the national assembly, to respect their decision and, of course, to help them in their new path, as far as it is of course in the interests of both countries or in so far as it is not to the detriment of any of the countries. Finally, we would also like to speak about the position of the European Union or European integration in terms of pursuing the European perspective in the Western Balkans. We also estimate that Slovenia, as a full member of the European Union, not only to the European Union, is obliged to respect this perspective, but primarily to respect the better future of the people and people of Montenegro. And to conclude, at least on behalf of the National Party's Group of Members, all are happy to the inhabitants and, of course, to the inhabitants of Montenegro and to make their way faster than our country. We will support the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Now he's got the word "magic." Žnidaršič on behalf of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u164	Dear Presidents, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! 15 years have passed since the collapse of Yugoslavia, 15 years since the independence of the Slovenians into our independent state. Today we are taking a decision on the recognition of the Republic of Montenegro, the last republic of the former common country to decide on independence and independence at the referendum. The Republic of Slovenia respects the right of all nations to self-determination, which was also the basis for the implementation of our referendum, as well as the referendum in Montenegro, where the majority of citizens decided on 21 May to form an independent and independent own country. On 3 June, the Assembly of Montenegro endorsed the referendum outcome and on this basis adopted the declaration of independence and called on the international community to recognise the newly formed independent state. The DeSUS Group has no concerns regarding the recognition. We believe that the Republic of Montenegro will also embark on the path of integration into the community of European nations, who together want to build a peaceful future in a spirit of mutual respect and creative cooperation. We also believe that respect for the right to self-determination in this case will contribute to the consolidation of peace in the Balkans, so in our Group of Members we will be happy to support the government's proposal for a decision by which the Republic of Slovenia finally recognises the Republic of Montenegro as an independent and sovereign state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I now invite Mr Jerovska to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u166	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, together with the citizens of Montenegro, we look forward to the restoration of the statehood of Montenegro or the declaration of independence proclaimed by the Assembly of Montenegro on 3.6.2006. The path to the declaration of an independent state was democratic, reached in agreement with the European Union and in accordance with the Constitutional Charter of the former Joint State of Serbia and Montenegro of 14.3.2002, which stipulated that any of the two countries, after the expiry of the moratorium of three years, could declare independence on the basis of the referendum. This referendum took place on 21 May 2006. We know that Montenegro's policy, and also Montenegrin parties, was under some pressure from the European Union and the international community, because this referendum took place one year after the moratorium expired. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that it is positive that the European Union has been very involved in this exercise, that it is likely positive that it has set an unreasonable quorum or threshold for the regularity of this referendum, and that once this referendum has been carried out on the basis of all democratic standards, this threshold set by the European Union has been reached so peacefully by Montenegro as to declare its independence. I am pleased that I have had the opportunity, as an observer with my colleagues Anderlik and Horvat, to take part in the monitoring of this referendum and, at the same time, after the referendum, to announce the first preliminary results, to see the happiness of Montenegrin citizens when they voted on Montenegro's independence. We respect the right of small nations to self-determination in the Slovenian Democratic Party, so when we adopted the declaration on the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia in 1999, we were instigated in the fact that the commitment that the Republic of Slovenia respects the right of small nations to self-determination was recorded as a commitment of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are confident that the restoration of Montenegro's statehood will help accelerate the development of both Montenegro and Serbia. Just convinced that this is good, as we say, for Montenegro and Serbia, that is what is very positive about these efforts. Slovenia is a country that has gone through this process and can appreciate the legitimate aspirations of the people's independence and independence on the ground of the former Yugoslavia. In the case of neighbouring countries of Serbia and Montenegro, we wish and hope that further development will show that they have taken a similar path as Norway and Sweden did centuries ago with disunity, where no one knows today that there is a border between them and they are also examples of the most successful development and the best cooperation between different nations and different countries. We can also agree that the experience of the independent countries on the ground of the former Yugoslavia so far is positive. The emerging countries are developing faster, and I think that mutual understanding between the new countries is improving from day to day. Slovenia today has good relations with all the countries of the former common country, so we are convinced that this is an extremely positive case on these soils, because the emergence of other countries, with the exception of Macedonia, has not been so peaceful and so simple. We are pleased that in the second part of the former country, reconstruction of Montenegro's statehood has also been positively accepted. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we can ensure that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we strive to ensure that the Republic of Slovenia has universally good relations with both the Republic of Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia. In so doing, let me say that we must not forget that the path to the restoration of Montenegrin statehood was long and hard. Of course, this is a country that has a great tradition of its statehood, which has been established in extremely difficult political and economic conditions, despite the fact that this former independent Kingdom of Montenegro has been operating in extremely difficult conditions, the example of a highly developed culture and also of the views of its leaders is still the case today. Who does not know Him as the leader of Montenegro and other rulers who have contributed positively to the development of Europe? We also agree in the Slovenian Democratic Party and we are pleased that immediately with this recognition, the Embassy of Slovenia will be established in Montenegro and, in fact, Slovenia in some way within the framework of the Austro-Hungarian Embassy will once again have a embassy and now, as an independent independent state, will have its own embassy. Allow me to conclude by congratulating once again on behalf of the SDS Group on the part of the Republic of Montenegro on the democratic declaration of independence, sovereignty or new statehood of Montenegro, in accordance with all the conditions laid down by the European Union or the international community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u167	Thank you very much. He will be the last to present the position of Liberal Democracy, Mr Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u168	At the Liberal Democracy Club, we are asking whether it was really necessary for Slovenia and the Slovenian Parliament to be, so to speak, for all the countries in the regions, for all the superpowers and for the vast majority of the Member States of the European Union, not for some of the EU members, in turn, when it has, however, committed itself to the goal of recognising the Republic of Montenegro. I am not euphoric, I am not proud and I am sad about this, especially because we know that Montenegro was forced to stay in community with Serbia in 1992. You know that Montenegro, like Slovenia, had the opportunity after the break-up of Yugoslavia to make a referendum on independence, as Croatia, Macedonia, Bosnia, etc. had done, but it should not have done so, because there was a regime of Slobodan Milosevic. They had to sign an agreement three years ago to behave with dignity, and only when they respect the final point of the agreement will they be able to go to a referendum after three years if this does not work out. It has not happened that Serbia and this community could live, live and be successful in co-existence. When these three years have passed, the time has come when it has been said, and now, by democratic standards, accept the referendum law, after which you will be able to go to the referendum and if the result is successful, it will be possible to announce the independent Montenegro. Of course, before that, they had to give up all their inheritance and leave Serbia, if that happens, the right to inherit the common country to all embassies, UN headquarters, etc. They also accepted this, and finally, with the assistance of Slovenian foreign policy, 55% were imposed on them, with the assistance of Slovenian foreign policy! Why and why? Because of our egoism, because all the countries that thought we met the conditions, of course, some already in 1991 and later in 1992, just as we know this history, recognized us, and why the country, I can call it a small country, Montenegro would not have this right. It's not true, Mr. Secretary of State, you're in such a hurry! On 7 June, the initiative was given to Mr Jerovšk, Chairman of the Committee, to invite the government to do so, and of course, when you found out, you rushed and then the next day came the initiative to recognise or decide the government that the National Assembly should recognise Montenegro. By saying that the chairman would have called the meeting once after the 12th, and although it was known, we didn't know it at the time, but that day Iceland had already recognised Montenegro. Prior to that, Serbia has already declared Serbia as a single state and the successor of all rights within the Serb and Montenegrin communities, which means that Montenegro has lost its state, without statehood, and has, in fact, remained out there somewhere. Serbia had continuity! It was not the same as when some others were independent. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Wait, wait, wait for today, when more than 35 countries admitted this when, including Serbia, this happened on the 15th of this month - and look at the fraction, here we argue whether we would go to an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly or put it on the first item of the agenda of the regular session. [[...]] No, once in the afternoon, the other day, at some other points. It is not a pleasure to be a Member of Parliament where both the President of the National Assembly and some members of the Coalition consider this act to be one of the routine actions of the National Assembly. That's not true! We waited, prayed, asked other countries, individuals, organizations, etc. to do everything in their countries to recognise the Republic of Slovenia as a single country! But when it comes to us - yes, to the others - not to us! And here I really wonder what this foreign policy is really like. Is there an egoism on the one hand that applies to us and that we share with those to whom we have some expectations, etc., or could we follow our own example in those cases where others are involved? It's not. Sometimes different commentators ask in Slovenia why Slovenia or Slovenians are not as desirable in various public opinion surveys as we would have expected. Just remember some grades. I'm sure it's always the way others make it about you, not the way you have it about you. We all have the best opinion of ourselves, but in this case I could attract those who say that they do not have the best opinion on us in this case. I'm glad 15-year agonies in Montenegro are ending. But 15 years in one human life is a very long time, and I hope that Montenegro will be able to make up for at least part of what it lost in 15 years because of this forced creation of Serbia and Montenegro. It is difficult to talk today about the fact that Slovenian foreign policy, when it has recognised or offered to the government, has also adopted a decision that it has done with the proposal in its explanatory statement what is actually necessary. It is not true that it is sufficient only for a dry reference to Article 60 of the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia and Montenegro, where the right to self-determination and referendum, etc., was sufficient. specified. Montenegro had this right in old Yugoslavia, just like us. Why she didn't take advantage of it, I said in the beginning - because she couldn't because she couldn't. And now we are drying up in these documents that this is some act of some country a million kilometers away, which has nothing to do with our neighborhood, which has nothing to do with our interests, which has nothing to do with the initiative, the Slovenian initiative, to regulate the situation in the Western Balkans. When we were President of the Ousse, we were from Turkmenistan, and I don't know where far away all the situations were, or at least that's how it turned out when the Foreign Minister was there several times or some special envoy in these countries, who, on behalf of the President, were solving these things. Here, with us, our neighbors, and in our neighborhood it doesn't matter! This is not what we would solve with Slovenian foreign policy. And so much more with skepticism, I expect the results of the so-called White Paper and I believe that there will be a discussion and agreement to do more in relations with Croatia and before the presidency of 2008 - when we wish to stress this - to make this Slovenian foreign policy friendly to the countries in the neighbourhood and, if you want, to the countries in the Western Balkans and the areas to which we have such and different relations; especially very much responsibility and economic interest, if you want. Of course, there is no doubt that we will adopt this decision by Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy, with a bitter conclusion that we could be among the first to be called on by the Committee: let us do this first, let us be proactive in Europe, let us convince our colleagues and colleagues in the European Union countries to move forward as soon as possible. And you see what happened later; this initiative was rejected by the coalition, but later it happened - what? All the countries came before us! They all came before us. In the end, a representative of Japan's country will arrive in Montenegro, who will also conclude at a formal level with the 100-year war they had, the country, as a gesture of goodwill. China, the United States of America - I don't know if they know exactly where Montenegro is, but they did - we don't. This is a reflection of Slovenian foreign policy and I hope it will improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members, as far as it will go. Apparently, the heat and football have done their part, i.e., some of them have checked out, some of them are gone, so it's Mr. Potsch's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I came forward to the debate mainly on the reason that, as my colleague Sam Bevk and all others have done so far, I sincerely congratulate the citizens and citizens of Montenegro on having achieved their national independence and independence, following the extremely democratic process, after being placed upon them by high and high demands. I am truly pleased with this action because I recall how we thought in the Republic of Slovenia 15 years ago, how firmly we decided to carry out our independence, and still have succeeded in the fact that we were the first of the republics of the former Yugoslavia to achieve independence and independence and international recognition much earlier than that of independence and independence, because it was the nearest common Republic of Serbia and because its national composition was such that, in large part, Serbia and Montenegro had to wait for its independence and independence to be achieved. I am pleased that all of this shows that this hastened insistence on meeting all the requirements that the international community has put forward before the now independent and sovereign state of Montenegro has produced success. That we can with great optimism believe that the independence of Montenegro has come on a peaceful path, and that we can with great optimism believe that today, too, the great majority of Serbian citizens and citizens believe that it is in the interests of both of them, that they will resolve their mutual relations and mutual issues, which are open and will probably also open up to any future necessity for regulation, but that they have both realized that it is in the interest of both of them, and that finally after 15 years we have received six independent independent democratic states from the common country, I believe that we are successful within the framework of the European Union in due time. I would like the state of Slovenia to commit itself today to do everything possible to cooperate with the independent country of the Republic of Montenegro, to do everything possible to give its good experience, especially the good word in the context of the 25th century, that the new country, as well as Serbia, as well as other countries on the ground of the Balkans, will be given real opportunities for equal inclusion in the European community of nations, because it is certainly our interest that the Western Balkans will also be economically, politically and otherwise evolving, because it will benefit the peace and progress of all. Well, one more time. Indeed, sincere congratulations and many successes for Montenegrin citizens and citizens of both and other nationalities living in Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I have two other discussers on my list, Mr Jerovsk and Mr Bevik, and, of course, a representative of the government. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I, of course, have already said and expressed my joy that today we can only recognise the independent Republic of Montenegro, which is an important step in my opinion that peace and cooperation and co-existence will prevail in this area and that this entire area of the former Yugoslavia will develop significantly faster; that the nations created by the declaration of statehood will take care of their development and their progress. As I have already mentioned, the results are positive with the experiences of others and it is no wonder that Montenegrin citizens and citizens have decided to take this path. Of course, when it was mentioned here that the Montenegrin nation was forced to act differently in 1991 and should not have acted the way we did in Slovenia. Of course, I must agree with this that Milosevic's nationalism and totalitarian regime actually used the territory and citizens of Montenegro to start the so-called "Yogur revolution" at the time and that in some ways he "sisterised" a large part of the population in some way. However, while we are now listening to criticism that Slovenia's foreign policy has not responded well enough, I must reject these criticisms, and those who have spoken here that there has been a lot of egoism in the conduct of Slovenian foreign policy, note that this does not hold that it is previously true that dishonesty and political accountability was elsewhere present. Indeed, you have also had the opportunity to use the Institute, the request for an extraordinary meeting, and perhaps an agreement could be reached if it was possible, on the other hand, to believe that it was also based on solid grounds that it was no longer an emergency in Montenegro and that there was no need to continue with exceptional measures and exceptional matters. At the same time, I must say, when you talk about 1991, that in these days Slovenian television journals are from 15 years ago Slovenian television and that I received many calls because I did not watch the diary from 16 June 1991 when the LDS authorities discussed and concluded that Yugoslavia must exist - 16 June 1991. For this reason, let us not criticize Montenegro for failing to take this step at the time. Let us be happy and happy that things have turned out well for us and that they are now turning in a positive direction for Serbia and Montenegro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk has the floor. Please, no more phone rings! Please let Mr. Bevk speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. A respected choir! On behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, I have already come to my attention, and I have wished Montenegro as successfully as possible a path as an independent and independent and sovereign state. However, I would like to reiterate that in this case we were delays in the Republic of Slovenia. Although the government adopted a decision on 8 June, which was essentially put into effect, it followed, in my opinion, the unnecessary instructions of the European Union, which politically recognised Montenegro on 12 June, although it had been recognised by Iceland, Switzerland and Russia by then by neighbouring Croatia and the former Republic of Macedonia, Bulgaria, Turkey and the United States of America. I reiterate that this waiting was unnecessary in order for the Republic of Slovenia to ensure primate recognition of the independent Republic of Montenegro. So I now reiterate that I congratulate the Republic of Montenegro and the citizens and citizens of this new country, that they will be very successful in the coming years, and that we will cooperate well both at national and economic, cultural and also at personal level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor by inviting Dr. Cerar's Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Just a sentence, two. The government adopted the proposal, as I said in my opening statement, on its own initiative, on 8 June morning and was the first government to adopt such a decision. It is true, however, that she advised the National Assembly, suggested that the proposal should be decided immediately after the adoption of the position of the EU General Foreign Affairs Council on 12 June and that all other EU members have maintained that position. No EU member of Montenegro recognised before June 12th. However, I hope to say that our country will be among the first to open its embassy in the Montenegrin capital, as well as that the government will continue to strive to develop multilateral relations both with Montenegro and with Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u177	Thank you very much. All of you who wanted to discuss have been given a word, but there is still some time left, so we have an opportunity to share the time according to the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to ask you to sign up. I will read everyone on the list, and everyone has 5 minutes available: Anderlič, Squeak, Sok, Štebe, Veršnik, Jerovšek, Janc. Please, Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u178	Here we see one simple logic that exists in the ruling coalition. Mr Jerovšek agrees that the government and the National Assembly have acted in an auspicious, slow and so forth, but at the same moment he accuses, he may have seen a contribution on television, but the LDS authorities never [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] In 1989, the USSR was gone, and you were talking about 1991, Mr Jerovšek. You use it for provocation, confusion, you don't want to talk about things. We are talking about serious matters, we are talking about the right of peoples and citizens and citizens of a particular area to decide themselves as we have done and as the people of Montenegro have done in Montenegro - not the Montenegrin people, as Mr Jerovšek said. But there are so many and so many Montenegrins, so many Muslims, so many Albanians and so on, and Serbs of course, I apologize - and not so little. When the initiative was, after all, it was clear that Iceland was doing so, that the United States was seriously reporting that they would do so as soon as possible. And they could have done it substantially before. There were representatives of the MZZ at the committee meeting, and for a time also a minister, where we were some members, including from the position, of course not from Nova Slovenije and SDS, cheered for Slovenia, the Slovenian Parliament's initiative in this and to do everything necessary to do so, after all, at an extraordinary meeting, at a meeting that began on 19th, under the first point and so on. But no, this arrogance, this self-sufficiency, when you've chosen what we've chosen, what we've got, we've taken, and the rest will be, when they do, and we'll hide a little bit for the EU, little bit there, little bit not. No one will assure me by the government that this government, especially the President and the Foreign Minister, does not give much credit to the opinions of the United States. On the contrary! I think it's much too much. And in the introductory talks on the constitution of this country, it was said in the "hearing" itself for the Foreign Minister, and also the Prime Minister has talked about it, we need to improve and we will do everything we can to create genuine relations with the United States of America. And I don't think you knew what America was doing in this case. But that's not what this is about! I would simply like to say that I am glad that this is happening, that it will happen, but that I am sad that this coalition has approached this thing so recklessly that it has placed it on one of the points there somewhere, rather than, as other countries have done in our case, calling an extraordinary meeting, acknowledging this country and so on. That's all this is about. Did it really have to wait for all the countries in the neighbourhood, including Serbia, as I said, from, if you want, Turkey, Bulgaria, Romania to, I don't know, all of them, they all did, the vast majority of the EU Member States, the United States of America, Russia, China, Japan, virtually more than half the population of this planet. But we don't. Why? Because the chairman was begging for a meeting, but maybe we could just wait, and I wouldn't know what, and a little later on. And I would like to see this foreign policy act more responsibly in the future. That's all. For what we demand for ourselves and have fought for ourselves, we must also confess to others. And so it is fair; especially if we have a special responsibility for peace, for some development in the region, as well as a desire. Finally, in 2008 we impose ourselves on behalf of the EU [[End warning sign]] especially responsibility. And if we don't act the way we do every day, we won't be able to completely change that six months and act the way we're supposed to. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone!]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u179	Time's up. It's mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. There are differences between effective and formalistic policies, especially foreign policy. An effective policy example is the recognition of some countries at the time of Slovenia's independence. Mr. Geuseher and some others did not ask anyone in 1991 whether they could come to Celovec, or if they could confess to Slovenia. No one. Formalist policy is what we see these days. What we see these days. I think it is clear, however, that Slovenia, which is closest to the crisis areas of South-Eastern Europe, should be among the first to recognise the new country between the European Union countries. I will not go into whether you knew how to write an explanation properly, but I have a feeling that time has begun for Montenegro with the establishment of the state union of Serbia and Montenegro. I think the time for Montenegro started much earlier, if not, please go for a walk on Cetinj and see the consulates that are on Cetinj. Fortunately, however, it is part of the Slovenians and Slovenes who lead at least part of an effective policy, and if not for other interests, gentlemen from the ruling coalition and the government, because of the Slovenian economy, which has long run a very effective policy in Montenegro, it would be appropriate to follow President Drnovšk, who was on Monday afternoon, morning, drinking coffee with the President of Montenegro, a new country on that night. And the government could send one fax to the National Assembly that afternoon, fax first, and we could gather at some extraordinary meeting and do what we're doing here today. We, gentlemen, have requested this, we have demanded, the formalist answers that we have received are to coordinate on this at Gaerc, I don't know, 12 June. It was just a formalist policy. And all we here challenge the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is to lead the economy, where the President of the country leads an effective policy, this foreign ministry leads a formalist policy and this formalist policy just means that in Montenegro they do not understand what is going on in Slovenia. They know that he was visiting the president of the country, drinking on Monday morning, the day after the referendum, coffee with his own president, and they are wondering why we are only about to conclude formalistic acts here in the National Assembly a month later. And you know who came from Montenegro yesterday still has to pay a special fee because there is not yet a regulated relationship between the Podgorica airport and the Brno airport, because some formalist procedures are still needed, which are said to start today in this National Assembly. In doing so, I would suggest, however, that in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Foreign Minister, who has chosen not to be here today, but to have an idea. Think of the fact that for the Republic of Montenegro and also for other countries that have emerged on the ground of the former Yugoslavia, Slovenia is still a model. Still a pattern. We can help them a lot, not with the centre for a European perspective, with NATO stories and so on, but with our experiences on the way to the European Union. But it is important to lead an effective policy and I hope that in Montenegro they will be able to forget as soon as possible why Slovenian foreign policy could not follow the economy and could not follow the extremely efficient president of the country in this case. And, of course, gentlemen from the ruling coalition, ask yourself what Dimitri is doing to you when perhaps today he is discussing relations with neighbouring Italy at another formal meeting in Rome. I will, of course, support this proposal for a decision, and I hope that you will at least be able to explain and write that the story with Montenegro did not begin until the creation of the state union of Serbia and Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honorable representatives of the government. Actually, I didn't mean to come by, but when I hear LDS Members here getting angry, I wonder, actually, it's getting late. They probably know the rules of procedure and know how to convene, in accordance with the rules of procedure adopted by them in the previous term, an extraordinary meeting. I think you know, if you don't, read Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure. This is the first regular session and we are taking advantage of the first day of the regular session when the Slovenian Parliament will also do what we have to do. I am pleased, however, that your colleagues from LDS are so committed to the independence of Montenegro, a few days ago, when they repeat the 1991 Journals, that when Slovenia became independent you were much more skeptical about how we will survive. It took 15 years for Montenegro to realize that it can live on its own, so that it can live on its own, gentlemen. Montenegro had its referendum in 1992, and then I got a lot, [[Can Anderlič's colleague calm down a little bit?]] That's when they decided they wanted to be part of another country. And it took so long that they finally decided otherwise at the referendum. And thank God, this unbearable situation ended when, in fact, both of them wanted to go apart, both of us Serbs and Montenegrins, and we got a new country and the Slovenian Parliament will, of course, confirm it today, we will accept it. And I want to tell you that it's not about who's first. The point is, in our belief in Novi Slovenije, not that Slovenia should be the first. It would be good if I were the first, but I explained to you why it didn't happen. And to mix today the situation in which Slovenia found itself in 1991 or now Montenegro is, of course, mixing apples and pears. At the time, the situation was quite different. In Belgrade, we know who was in power at the time, and we also know how it was decided at the time and how the Slovenians were actually shivering at what could happen. And then the recognition of Slovenia was the solution in this direction that the worst thing that could have happened did not happen. It was therefore so important how quickly the EU countries and the rest of the world confirmed the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, today to say that this is equally important for Montenegro is a complete nonsense, unless I say even stupidity, because Montenegro and Serbia have agreed, under the watchful monitoring of the EU, both for the referendum and for the quorum to be reached and for the EU observers to be present at these referendums and that everything will take place as it has been done. And colleague Anderlich, as far as I know, was also there, that he could control that it was all right and that he could see that it was happening in a calm and pleasant atmosphere. And if I finish, I don't even know why such a performance on this occasion, when we could actually make this decision by acclamation, and in Slovenia also confirmed that Montenegro is our own, not just in the immediate vicinity, but once a common country with which we want to have good relations both in the economic, cultural, political and other fields. We in Novi Slovenija - I will also say again what my colleague Horvat said on behalf of our parliamentary group - supported this decision with all voices. And I think this is also a rare opportunity when there will be no vote in this National Assembly to abstain or even oppose. That's why there's no need for your LDS colleagues here to get angry and seem to be a few days or a few hours late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u184	If the President does not quote the Rules of Procedure or does not explain the provision to which Mr Sok is mistakenly referring, then it should be clarified that Article 28 states that the members of the College or College may decide that it will be an extraordinary meeting. And as I know, you, Mr Sok, are a member of this college and it would be right not to act that way. Besides, I don't know where you were in 1991.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u185	So it is too late for a procedural proposal, as we know, and I would like to give my own opinion on this occasion. I think the recognition of Montenegro is such an important event that it should take place in a solemn, positive atmosphere, but not as a political accounting between us. I'm asking you to hold on to this until the end. Thank you very much. Mr Veršnik's turn, I apologize, mag. It's bad luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Exactly what Mr Pavliha has just said should be a solemn moment. And even though you have some problems with various "smoking" and you're wasting time and you're wasting this solemn moment, you might as well forget this at this point, even though you want to act as a real opposition, but such a moment should be solemn. In fact, we have problems with the fact that we simply spoil what might now work at least between us very positively, for those who probably do not feel us directly, for the Montenegrin people and the people of Montenegro, to whom I congratulate this decision, which has been made in difficult circumstances, the situation which in this area is rather complex and in fact specific; and for the Montenegrin people and residents in particular, because they are in such diverse ways connected with those who also have institutional measures in some way prevented the Montenegrin people from doing so and set specific conditions for the fulfilment of the referendum decision together with the European Union. And this success has, in fact, become a traditional independent state of the Kingdom of Montenegro, which after so many centuries, I don't know, five hundred years, has become and has become a sovereign state again, and after 70 years in this community, the Yugoslav SHS and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and the Federal Republic have joined the European Union in order to become a normal country now. In this way, the neighborhood has also "burdened" one burden, which would otherwise have failed if this referendum had failed - you can imagine the latent source of some problems, additional problems in this area. I attended the opening of a centre for the European future or perspective, as you would like, where everyone was very pleased and pleased to discuss the outcome of the referendum, which was not formally confirmed at the time on 23 May. And only recognition, which was entirely correct by the government, partnerly and in accordance with the agreement with the European Union on how certain matters are being resolved, was actually the first in Europe, but it was not essential who was first. See, more importantly, how we have approached in the pre-referendum and previous years, in which, in view of the circumstances in this South-Eastern Europe, in these circumstances, it is not only wise to play on one aspect of support but, in fact, to be diplomatic. I think that the Slovenian government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has acted in some way diplomatically and in particular in the interest of not opening up some wounds or deepening some wounds that are present between countries and nations in the area. But not because of the events that have taken place, but because of the relations that have already ruled here traditionally. I think it is now necessary to act on the part of Slovenia in the sense that in some way we are trying in the whole of South-Eastern Europe, and of course now the independent country of Montenegro too, to allow these people and the indirect economy and this society to function normally in the European space. My proposal is that Slovenia, the Slovenian Government, also supports the genuine liberalisation of the visa regime, that the former residents who are used to such free travel be freed from the liberalised visa regime in such a way that these residents can travel freely and without major problems and financial costs and time complications throughout the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u187	Thank you very much. We have three more debaters. My word to Mr. Versnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. What had happened for a long time was hanging in the air, including the last Yugoslav Republic, Montenegro, took its own stand, set foot in its own path, and began its own destiny. In order for this to happen, we knew, because in Slovenia we hosted several times their leaders, who certainly did not just come for coffee, but they got directions, we probably helped them on this path too, although this was not public, I do not know how marked, but this was certainly happening. It was a very bold decision, especially because of the conditions set by the European Community at the height or number of referendum votes, and the Montenegrins have always been brave and have taken such a courageous decision, the European Community, and have agreed to such a high percentage of the positive votes. I have to say congratulations in this case. Especially because they were not afraid to eat grass as it happened in some other circumstances, and they courageously went to the referendum and obtained enough votes in referendum. If we can refer to the findings and refer from an extraordinary meeting on the basis of newspaper articles, I think that those who today do not agree to deal with this matter only today could call or request the signing of an extraordinary meeting and could have done so earlier. I don't see any problems here. However, I am convinced that, like all others who have already recognised Montenegro, we will do the same, and with the actions that will certainly be badly needed in the future, to help them develop and further integrate into European flows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I really ask you to calm down a little bit so that we can bring this debate to an end. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u190	Thank you very much again. I also believe that today is a solemn event, both for our Parliament, which will carry out this formality of the final recognition of Montenegro's sovereignty and independence, as well as for the citizens and citizens of Montenegro who will receive this recognition from a friendly country. I think it is counterproductive now to kind of inflame Slovenian foreign policy, given that we are actually adopting this act today. Here all customers were missed because more customers had the opportunity to request an extraordinary meeting. [[Back-up advertising.]] Mr Anderlich, allow me, as President, indeed on your initiative, but that day I decided to conclude a procedure on the Foreign Policy Committee if a point is allocated. And because during the session, even when you proposed, we received this notice, we called an extraordinary, urgent meeting and we also carried out these formal procedures. And that day I also informed my Montenegrin colleague, Mr Vuković, that we had carried out all the formal procedures, both the government and the foreign policy committee. And I find these accusations about the procedure very unfair and even calculus. You had a chance, other parties, if you were wiser than others, you weren't. And even when you have invoked the right of the nations to self-determination, you will have it in your documents, which is the right thing to do. Today, we are proud to have this in the 1999 foreign policy declaration. However, it was I who requested this clause on the International Relations Committee and was adopted. You who were in power were no longer aware of this. At that time, it turned out to be arrogant that you had already virtually forgotten about the small nations that the representative of the opposition had to put this into a declaration. And, look, that really makes me feel like we're all self-critical of our mistakes. I myself agree that this procedure could be further accelerated. However, I remind you of the terrible dissonance between June 16, 1991 and June 20, 1991. Today we were able to read in the Journal that one of the customers at the time demanded that the flag of Slovenia remain a red star - at a press conference. And look at those things, and this is also part of the development of national pride and political clairvoyance, which was present in some at the time, but was not present in some. And I think that we are learning our history together, and that we want these nations, these countries that are embarking on this path, to be successful, and in some ways to avoid what was previously bad in their history - to discuss it, not actually to question it in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Janc has the floor and we are closing the debate with him.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! And the last one will be the first. I will be very pleased to support this conclusion, because I think it is extremely important and congratulations to the historic success of the citizens of Montenegro for this great and important step, which I wish them in the way of many successes, satisfaction and, above all, independence and sovereignty, for which they have fought for so many years and so many years. Where there is will, where endurance is also the result, although it has been long and I think it has come. Slovenia already has a traditional good relationship with this Republic, and this is what we are aware of in Slovenia, and I am sure that it is right that this might be even faster than it was, but we also have good relations with Serbia and that we have them, economically, politically and culturally, because it is also an extremely important country. We know that we have certain advantages there, which comes from the common country. And maybe that's why there are certain, such and different concerns, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Governments' views as such. I wouldn't be too skeptical here if we were first or not. But it is true that if we generalize it a little bit, at the World Cup on Football, it is not the same story, but it can, however, be considered more or less the first place at the end, but something small is the second and third. Everything else is more statistics and people will immediately forget what happened. And basically, who was 15 or 16 won't matter. The statistics will lead to some results to the next championship and the end. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that we have had the opportunity to convene an extraordinary meeting following such a different procedure. We didn't take advantage of those options. Let's forget that, today is the day when we will, I hope to unanimously support this recognition, this conclusion and thus demonstrate our resolve to support it. And what the secretary said before, let us be the first to open up the Embassy of Montenegro and take advantage of the second synergy we have in Slovenia, Montenegro in this space. I think if I say so, we'll be able to fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u193	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate and also joins the sincere congratulations of Montenegrins and Montenegrins for independence and statehood. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, after a good half-hour, at 4:45 p.m. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 4:45 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u194	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I ask you to take your seats, because we will begin our vote. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. We have seven requests for a debate in the National Assembly on the responses of the Prime Minister and some ministers. Before we begin to vote, there is a standard warning to check the functioning of the voting devices, namely the orange light on the right hand side of the card inserted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Saš Pečet, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to Saš Pečet's question on the possibility of introducing a voluntary church tax or contribution. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 43. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Secondly, in accordance with the proposal of Mr Matey Lahovnik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of the role and importance of the national economy in the implementation of the basic development programmes. Mr. Squeakl, would you like a word on behalf of the parliamentary group, I presume? Well, then in my own, because I see there are no other hands. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u195	Thank you. I would like to support this decision on my behalf. I think that there are quite a few reasons for this, not only the decision of Minister Erjavac, but above all the inadequacy and inadequate response of the Prime Minister, but at the same time several legislative proposals in this National Assembly, which are closely linked to what is the problem in this purchase or, if you want, in the proceedings that Mr Janša's Government is carrying out or intends to carry out. In the National Assembly, there is a law on fundamental development of programmes, which means more than 170 billion new purchases of weapons. In the National Assembly, you are asking for an urgent procedure to amend the law on the revision of the procurement procedure, which, together with other laws, would mean that these purchases will be decided at home. Last but not least, in the National Assembly, we have a resignation from the President of the State Audit Commission, who, after saying that the proposal you want to take after an emergency procedure, to the Unic in the European Union, has resigned because it is obviously under pressure before it takes office. In this country, on the question and in relation to the issues of public procurement - and not only for 60 billion of these patriots or the waves, it is 500 billion annual public contracts - that there will soon be no more legal protection. This needs to be discussed with an inadequate response from the Prime Minister, so I will support the proposal of my colleague, Mr Lachovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u196	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 42. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 42.]] No decision is taken. Third time. In line with the proposal by Mr Slavko Gabra, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr Juret Zupan, to the question of Mr Gabra's delegation regarding the participation of universities, students, trade unions and employers in the design of higher education policy. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, with 34 votes against 44 for them. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] No decision is taken. Fourth time. In line with Ambassador Majda Shirca's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Janez Drobnič asked Mrs Širca's question on the envisaged measures to change demographic indicators in the field of fertility. Mrs. Shirca on behalf of the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u197	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Members. The first and important fact justifying my proposal to discuss the Minister's response is the fact that viewers, viewers, citizens, citizens have not heard the answer. Yesterday, despite an analysis of the television transmission of the questions sent, there were no questions. And as we know, in the past, in such cases - or not, Mr Cukjat - signed the proposal, you were the first to be signed under the proposal when there was once not one meeting transmitted to abolish the RTV contribution. But the second more important fact is that Minister Drobnic lied when he deceived citizens and citizens, how many abortions there were in Slovenia, not only for the media, I am talking about the evening newspaper, but also in this national assembly, that he was talking about evil and that he was talking about the past problematic time when the culture of death was too elevated or promoted in Slovenia. On my question of how to bring joy to life, he introduced some of the doubts that should be clarified in this room, that this joy may be too much in the midst of one another's joy, which limits the entrance to gynecological clinics. I therefore propose that a thorough discussion be made on this, because it is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u198	We're voting. I'm sorry, it's too late. There are 77 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 42. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 42.]] This means that the decision is not adopted. At the same time, of course, I ask Members and Members to raise their hands in time so that we can see them and give them a word. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Srečko Friends, the assembly will decide on the next proposal for a decision. At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of Mr Karl Erjavac, Minister of Defence, to Mr Friend's question on the recruitment of the defence ministry. Mr. Friend has already signed up. On behalf of the Group of Members, I assume.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u199	That's right. Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I wouldn't point out the latest irregularities in the Department of Arms and Armours. You know that this is a national disgrace for Slovenia, that we did not really know how to provide that market share for our companies, which could provide the Slovenian Army with the necessary fixed assets. The other thing I would like to point out is that, in fact, I have repeatedly addressed written and oral questions to the Minister of Defence on human rights irregularities within the Ministry. In fact, the Minister always found flat, superficial answers to my questions and did not respect the signed decision by the then Defence Minister, who in fact assured all offenders that they would in fact make progress in accordance with internal acts through their service in the Slovenian Army. Of course, they did not have to, which you can also see in the means of public information and there is no honesty and principle, principles in the Slovenian Army. I therefore believe that it would be necessary for a specific debate to take place in this National Assembly on what is happening at this Ministry. The money of taxpayers is uncontrolledly spent, which is also pointed out by the mass protests of workers and the fact that, in fact, by such an approach, the minister is damaging both the reputation of Slovenia and, in essence, his own people or the Slovenian economy. There's something else I'd like to point out. I'd like to give you a comparison. What would happen if America actually decided what Slovenia is if it bought or decided to buy Russian weapons. It's a shame that our product is actually good for NATO members, but it's not good for our army. It's a national disgrace. And what happened today or yesterday is, in fact, a very flat and nonchalant response from both the government and the ministry. And I would therefore ask that you support me in this request, which I am using in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and that we speak honestly about what is going on at the Ministry of Defence in this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u200	Thank you very much. We're voting. Thank you. There were 79 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] No decision is taken. Six. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Janez Drobnič to Barbara Žgajner Tavš on the issue of fostering. We're voting. Thank you. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] No decision is taken. And the last one asks for a proposal. The proposal by the rapporteur, Mag. Milana Cvikla will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, to the question of mags. Milana M. Szvikla on measures to reduce indebtedness and grant guarantees to budgetary and non-budgetary users and state-owned enterprises. Mag. Squeak, probably on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u201	The main thing was empty yesterday, so allow me to explain, however, why I think that the Minister's reply should be discussed. I quote Mr. Minister: by the end of 2006, the debt is projected to be $721,413, pardon, one million 721,413, end, one thousand 721 14 [[?]] millions, that's billions. The debt is indeed 1,723 billion and a few tolars. However, I believe that it is necessary to hold an interview because Mr Minister could not tell what the ideas surrounding the issuance of KAD bonds amounting to more than two hundred billion, which means at least that the CAD will not be able to finance the pension treasury, what with the envisaged hole in the SOD, at least 110 billion, what with Dars' debt in the event that the tolls will not occur and what the Minister intends to do when, as Minister of Finance, he peacefully allows Mr Erjavec to buy another 170 billion weapons, by the way. We have estimated that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has committed or issued a guarantee of more than 1150 billion since its performance, that is, 960.000 tolars per head of the active citizen of the Republic of Slovenia and it is necessary to talk about this before the Slovenian public, so it would be right to hold a public debate on this. A delegation of the European Commission visited today. On one of the questions when Slovenia should start reforms, or as Mr Bajuk says, relatively quickly or as Mr Janša says, in 2020 or even later, the answer of gentlemen, some Members were there, was mainly about what you intend to do, and the pension story is about to begin immediately. And in doing so, it will be very important where we will devote our limited resources. Will we simply, as Mr Bajuk does, use debt as a way to solve problems that we cannot solve in this round room? I therefore propose that you support the procedural proposal and that we find out once whether it is a million 721 000 or that it is only a debt of 1723 billion and almost 1150 billion additional debt only at the time of this Janša government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u202	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] This means that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a constitutional law amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on three articles, in the second section and on a proposal for a constitutional law in its entirety. In doing so, I remind you that before we move on to a decision that in accordance with Article 169 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, 2/3 of the majority of all Members are required to adopt a constitutional law, namely 60 or more Members and Members. The same applies to the adoption of an individual article or section. Mr. Pece would like to explain procedurally? So, if you'll excuse me for another ten seconds. In fact, we are now deciding on Article 1 of the first section, and Mr Pece has already applied to explain his vote on behalf of the Group of Members, I suppose.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u203	Thank you. According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members of Parliament, honourable Members, you are going too easily. You probably all know that all three articles of constitutional change and, in the end, the vote on constitutional law will not fully lead to what the Minister has promised us, or what the prime signatories of constitutional changes have promised us. From us, our assessment of the Constitution calls for a serious approach to changing the Constitution. Do not specify a content that will not allow the use of the provinces to be carried out in this mandate. We all know that we do not have a certain number of landscapes within our country, we all know that we do not have specific tasks in the context of the provinces envisaged, and we all know that we do not have a specific source of funding. In the context of the debate of the Constitutional Commission, when it addressed the said materials, we omitted this topic on purpose. From this only logical thinking follows that you want to somehow wash your conscience and show in public that now the constitution allows the establishment of landscapes. But at the same time, allow the existing article of the Constitution to allow for the introduction of provinces or the association of congregations. This was confirmed by the legislative and legal service, both within the framework of the Cora Region Act and the province Act, as colleague Kontić expressed himself about the province of "Saša". Last but not least, we have received the position of the legislative and legal service that it is possible for the municipality to unite, but that the matter, as envisaged under the constitutional law, will not lead forward, will not lead to the answers that citizens and citizens expect from us. According to our assessment, it would make more sense, above all, to include the number of provinces in the constitutional category. If that were the case, we would be happy to support such a constitutional change in the National Party. The fact is that it is precisely the number of landscapes that depend on both funding sources and, above all, what is most important, these are tasks and obligations. However, we estimate that the constitutional changes that are before us today are intended exclusively for one, that is to show the public that we are doing something in this area, but we all know that we are working very seriously and that is why we will not support any of the envisaged decisions in the National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u204	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 6. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against six.]] This means that Article 1 of the first section has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on Section 2 of Article 1. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 6. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against six.]] I note that Article 2 of the first section has also been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on Article 3 of the first section. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 6. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against six.]] Article 3 of the first section is adopted. One last section, number two. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 6. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against six.]] I find that the second section is also adopted. We are now voting on the constitutional law as a whole. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 69 votes in favour, 7 votes in favour. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] The constitutional law is fully adopted. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 182 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly of Constitutional Law amending Articles 121, 140 and 143 of the Constitution is expected to declare 8th day after its adoption. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on mandatory copies of publications. First of all, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled by the LDS Group to Article 5. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft law, the assembly will vote in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure on the draft law on Thursday, 22 June 2006, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on financial insurance, following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. As amendments could not be tabled in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law and at the same time informing me that the legislative and legal services or the government have not notified me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the public sector's salary system, this time following an urgent procedure. We have three amendments, the first to Article 4. It was tabled by the LDS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Similarly, the LDS Club has tabled an amendment to Article 7a and also to the SD. Mr Potč has the floor, I assume, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u205	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members. We will support the two amendments tabled, because we are convinced that by means of an emergency law, there is no need to change the social partnership system in the country. The government and three ruling parties have afforded themselves a grave intervention into the law and the social partnership system in order to take a closer look and significantly facilitate their influence on decision-making and especially on trade unions. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose and I still hope and I believe that we will find that this solution to the content of the law is not necessary because the escalation is specifically agreed. By rejecting the fourth amendment, the government has also ensured that it will be able to provide itself and itself with an overtime system and an impact system. At least we leave social partnership and union bargaining outside this law. We will vote in favour of this amendment, which will put an end to this solution, which was put into law at the last day of the mother's working body meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u206	Thank you very much. We vote on both amendments at the same time because they are the same. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 41. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Since the amendments were not adopted at second reading, I conclude the second reading. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since amendments could not be tabled at this stage, we are moving on to deciding on the law as a whole. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Mr. Anderlich, I'd be very grateful if I could run the session, not you. We're voting on the law. Mr Potč, I apologize, but I was occupied by the calming of Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u207	I don't mind either. I was just quietly holding my hand in the air in time. Thank you very much. We will not support the bill in the Social Democrats' parliamentary group. The fundamental reason is the intervention in union freedom and union organisation, which the ruling coalition has voluntarily afforded itself without need. However, as a substantive reason, I should mention only one. There are no precise indications that, without the adoption of the law, it would not be possible to increase wages. It could also be with July 1st, but really a little later, when it would have been agreed back if the government wanted it. I think it is right and essential to say this in order not to spread the rumor that those of us who voted against the law are also voting against the increase or partial alignment of the salaries of public officials with inflation, although only in part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-06-20-SDZ4-Redna-18.ana.u208	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 23. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the law has been passed. The last item of today's meeting is item 22 of the agenda - discusses the proposal for a decision on the recognition of the independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Montenegro. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: the Republic of Slovenia recognises the Republic of Montenegro as an independent and sovereign state. We're voting. Thank you very much. That's right. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] However, allow me to announce the result, 80 present and all in favor. [[...]] [[The vote was 80.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 18th meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m., and I wish you as much a cold evening as possible.
