ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister with the co-workers! I begin the continuation of the 14th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me at first to express my humble yet determined desire - I wish today's session would not turn into a deserted Tuesday. There'll be plenty of time for snivelers and other lunatics tonight, after the final session. Thank you very much. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members: Mr Ferri Horvat, Mr Alojz Posedel and Mag. Borut Saiovic. We're moving to 2. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the participation of workers in the management of the European Working Party. The total time for discussion is 2 hours and 20 minutes. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Magi. A little thing. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members! With the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in the management of a European company, Council Directive 2001 86EC of 8 October 2001 supplementing the status of a European society as regards the participation of workers is brought to the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. The basic basis for this Directive is the Regulation on the Statute of the European Society. In the Republic of Slovenia, the introduction of a European shareholder company will be implemented through the adoption of a company law, which is already in the parliamentary process. The Company Act, the amendment, will address all the necessary corporate issues related to the European Shareholder Society. However, the Act on the participation of workers in the management of the European Shareholder Society will, subject to the requirements of the Directive, regulate the means of participation of workers in the management of this European Shareholder Society. In view of the very technical nature of the Directive, the proposal for a law in the vast majority of articles summarises the provisions of the Directive and only in some cases, when expressly authorised by the Directive, introduces an original national regime. For example, when appointing members of the special negotiating body and members of the Council of Workers of the European Shareholder Society, the protection and criminal provisions, where it also summarizes the already adopted solutions to the Law on European Councils of Workers and the Labour Relations Act. The Directive and, consequently, the proposal for a law combines two fundamental principles. Free regulation of the participation of workers at the level of the European Shareholder Society and in principle the maintenance of the existing level of participation of workers. The draft law encourages the conclusion of agreements on the participation of workers in management, which ensures the rights of workers to cross-border information, consultation and co-decision in a society established in our country, and also in the case that only the participating companies and branches are part of a company established in another country to which the Directive applies, with as much as possible ensuring the rights of workers acquired. If an agreement is not reached, the law provides for a minimum level of participation of workers in the exercise to be ensured in accordance with the legal provisions which accurately summarise the regulation of the Directive. The proposal for a law thus regulates the means of participation of workers in the conduct of a European shareholder company and lays down in detail the negotiating procedure for regulating these methods. Where the management of the participating companies plans to set up a European Shareholder Society, they must do everything necessary as soon as possible to negotiate with the representatives of the employees of the companies on the arrangements for the participation of workers in the performance of the European Shareholder Society, since the implementation of the requirements of the Directive and of the law is a condition for the registration of such a company. For this purpose, a special negotiating body shall be established to represent the employees of all participating companies, the subsidiaries concerned and the branches. The proposal for a law on this site makes sense to summarise the solution provided for in the European Council Workers Act, which stipulates that the representatives of workers from the Republic of Slovenia are a special negotiating body, the origin of the selection of workers in secret elections. However, the right to propose candidates shall be enjoyed by holy workers, representative unions in the participating company, in the subsidiary and in the branch, and at least 50 workers in the participating company, subsidiary or branch. Furthermore, the proposal of the law deals with the issue of the participation of workers in the management of a European company under an agreement or law and lays down the principles of cooperation between the management of a European company of shares and the councils of workers of that company, the protection of workers' representatives, the competence to resolve disputes relating to the implementation of the law and sanctions for offences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you very much. As usual, the draft law dealt with the labour force of the mother, which is the committee for work, family, social affairs and persons with disabilities, so I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr Brenčič, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the proposer, I welcome you very much. At its 11th regular meeting, on 15.2., the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in the management of the European Shareholder Society submitted by the Government to the legislative procedure for a second reading. Members and members of the committee received a proposal for a law, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion from the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, amendments from the members of the coalition groups and an amendment from the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia. To the members and members of the Committee, the representative of the proposer, as was the case earlier, also explained in the oral approach the purpose and purpose of the proposed law, so I will not repeat this. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service has examined that draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and has made specific comments on a number of articles. The written opinion of the Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia on social activities shows that the Commission supports and proposes to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to re-examine the comments of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia. During the discussion, the members and members of the Committee discussed in particular the appropriateness of provisions which were not recorded in the Slovenian language and stressed that the proposed law was not only of a technical nature but was concerned with the substantive issues of the participation of workers in management. A number of amendments were tabled to the draft law by the four coalition coalition groups, with which the content of the law has also been supplemented in some way in terms of the findings of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The Committee has also drafted and adopted its amendments to Articles 3, 7 and 24 and the amendments to Chapter 8. Thus, the professional service has incorporated all the amendments adopted by the four coalition groups and the amendments by the committee into the amended bill submitted for consideration by the plenary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Rezman on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Today, in this debate, we will talk in particular about the rights of workers to self-governance and these rights do not usually come by themselves, which is why we need to work now, as in the past. I mention this mainly because, when we talk about this law, we need to speak in the context of some other laws that have already been passed, some that are changing, we now have them in the process and some that are forecasting. Therefore, our position to be presented today, the position of the DeSUS Group, will also be able to be recognized in these laws, which are directly bound by this law. We must say, however, that we are inclined to ensure the rights of workers to co-management, not only with European equity society, but also with the right to co-management. This is how we will vote. It is when we talk about a European shareholder society or the right to co-management in a European shareholder society, about a number of innovations. This is not just news for us, even in the EU regulation that talks about this, only counts for five good years and the directive, which, under the terms of reference, corrects it, is not much younger, so we do not have very much experience. Therefore, there is a need to be more careful when implementing. New for us is a European Shareholder Society, new for us in Slovenia is a single management, new is also a status form, transnational regulation, which allows very few possibilities to be added to our legislation and, of course, there are other novelties, which will eventually also show the need for us to pursue these laws and complement them. It is also important for us that this law is, in fact, equally optional, does not yet have its own power to stand up to the law adopted, yet there is no law on companies adopted, so it foretells something that can be realized once these conditions are met, so the adoption of the law on companies is guaranteed. I mention this above all because this is likely to have to be mentioned again today, because this optional nature is once understood as something to the benefit and once again as something to the detriment. What I'm trying to say is that this is, at least for the time being, a supply law, by Thursday or Wednesday, when we're going to adopt the GHS. The essence of the law is that it seeks to regulate and also to ensure that workers are able to participate in management and that workers' rights are regulated in the European Shareholder Society. When we talk about workers' rights to co-management, there would be an overkill of some kind of reminiscence or obvious and connection with former labour self-government, which was entirely based on other foundations and also had different solutions. This is something that has also become a standard in modern societies, something that cannot be avoided and which is likely to be even more enforced in the coming years. In principle, the law allows only opportunities, is a law that allows and does not determine what forms they must all be, but it has attached the lower level to determine what is what is compulsory. It is mandatory to ensure that the rights that these companies have had with regard to self-management have already been ensured, so that this level cannot be reduced and that they also protect fundamental rights in such a way as to comply with the standard, the standard rules provided by the Directive. So in the DeSUS Group, we will support the law and hope that some of the things that we support in this law will also be implemented in the legislation that is announced and which will also ensure the co-ordination of workers for others, not just the European Shareholder Society.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Master Steba in the name of SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in the management, information and supervision of European society. The proposed law is to supplement the Statute of a European Shareholder Society or of a European Society, an economic company, the purpose of which is to reach an agreement in this company, a European Society for the participation of workers in the management of such a company, which is to guarantee workers' rights to cross-border information, consultation and co-decision. The European Society, the Directive on it, enables transnational companies and their simple integration and operation within national rules and can achieve feasible mobility. Today, in the Finance Journal, there is an overview of such companies and their integration. In parallel with this introduction of the European Society Directive, which will still have to be implemented in the old legislation, as mentioned above, it also requires the regulation of the envisaged single management system in these European companies, which has so far been unknown to major shareholders in our country, but is foreseen in the first reading of the law. In a specific section of the Company Act, this issue on a single management system will be regulated, integrated and for national and European shareholders. Since this is an extremely technical directive which must be transposed into national law in most cases, there is no point in saying anything more about the matter. On the web pages on European society and on the management or co-management of workers, there are two models, models of equity and a model of associates in such a society, where, on the one hand, they tend to be as healthy and profitable as possible and, on the other hand, to the most balanced and coherent management of such a company. It is not only about governance and cooperation in governance, but it is particularly important that workers in such a share society, especially when they operate in a wider European area, are well informed among themselves and that in this way workers' rights are also protected within different national laws on the basis of such a regulated directive, which applies to Europe as a whole, for even the European Union. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposal for a law on the performance of workers in a European shareholder society, but we will tell later about the amendments and the views on the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The next word is Master Squeakl on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u10	Mr President, Members of Parliament and Members of the Government. This is a new law whose purpose is primarily to transpose the requirements of the directive, but the law is not as you claim, only of a technical nature, it is mainly of a substantive nature, so we are surprised that the ruling coalition has so easily rejected all proposed additions to civil society and the opposition and, of course, only accepted those amendments that have corrected the strange mistakes of the bill-maker, which the legislative and legal service, of course, has pointed out. If the opposition's amendments were also adopted, they would get a quality better law and allow me to point out, of course, in my presentation of my position, that this law, after its adoption, shows how the government understands the opposition, civil society and, of course, interested parties. The way this government operates is best seen in this law, and on a deserted Tuesday, masks sometimes fall. First time. This law shows that what is not governmental is not good or does not matter how professional the amendment is, it is important that the amendment is governmental. First case. The government argues that it is reasonable to adopt the law together with the company law, but it is likely that it would be useful to adopt it by one step in the delay with the company law, as the company law also refers to the co-management of workers. This argument, which we have presented, will be used by the government today, on a deserted Tuesday, at the next point, of course, because we will not be able to adopt this law in terms of amendments and additions to the law on the cooperation of workers and in the performance submitted by the opposition until the proposal of the opposition Members is adopted. Secondly, what is seen in this law on the functioning of the government is that the government does not have a system of monitoring its obligations to the EU rules, the law needs to be harmonised with European rules, but the European Commission itself has to point out this. The government is late in this law, Mr Strovs said that it is particularly important to say in this law that we are late in harmonising the co-ordination of workers in European equity society with European directives. Third time. This law shows a lack of respect for the comments of civil society and other stakeholders. We believe that the law is not of a technical nature, but of a substantive nature and would, of course, warn the union on the home labour body, but especially on the Economic Social Council, it was reasonable to include it in the content of the law itself, but you did not do so, even though, for example, the Commission of the State Council for Social Activities suggested to the Ministry that the proposals of the Union of Free Trade Unions should be re-examined and incorporated into the draft law. The government does not wish to take into account the comments of civil society and does not wish to take into account the comments of the interested professional public and does not accept the opposition's proposals. Fourth time. The European minimum, and this is new at the time of this government, is the maximum for us. The government considers what is laid down by the European directives and other regulations acceptable, i.e. as a minimum, to be the maximum for Slovenia. Never in the time of some of the laws we adopt do we go into increasing the rights over the standards set by the European Union. As in this law, we have been following the Asylum Act a few weeks ago, and we will be monitoring the amendment of the Public Information Act and so on. If I do. The government is late for this law. This must have been pointed out by the European Commission that we have a law at all. The government does not respect the opposition and rejects all proposals. The government does not respect civil society and therefore rejects all proposals. We cannot accept the minimum laid down by European standards. We believe that in Slovenia we could give workers the maximum that legislation allows. We will therefore support the amendments tabled in the Liberal Democracy Club and, on the basis of the decision and the results of these amendments, we will decide on the full support of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. Expenditure on behalf of SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The distinguished representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs! Dear Members and Members! The Group of Social Democrats considers the adoption of a law on the participation of workers in the management of a European shareholder company to be an expected adjustment to the European legal order, unfortunately, with considerable delay. The fact that we should transpose the provisions of the Directive on the co-management of workers in the European Shareholder Society into national law by 8 October 2004 was pointed out last October at the 10th meeting of the National Assembly in my question to Minister Drobnič. At that time, the competent minister replied that it would be necessary to adopt amendments to the company law first and that something could happen so that this law governing labour co-ordination under the European Directive would be adopted a little later. We are therefore pleased to note in the Group of Social Democrats that we are adopting at least a law on the participation of workers in the management of the European Shareholder Society at this meeting, when, in the second reading, there are also amendments and additions to the Economic Society Act, which will address the status issues of the European Shareholder Society and will be possible in addition to a two-tier single management. Unfortunately, however, the position of the government and the working body do not appear to support the amendment of the law on the participation of workers in governance, which the Social Democrats' Group believes would be necessary. There will be more talk on the views of our parliamentary group on the last law in the next item on the agenda. The Economic Society Act is without prejudice to the question of the participation of workers under Directive 2001/86/EC, which complements the Statute of the European Society as regards the participation of workers. This is precisely the issue that has been most problematic in the long-term preparation of the directive due to the different arrangements and the different positions of individual Member States. The transposition into national law will allow for the registration of a European shareholder company established in our country, since the implementation of the directive is a condition for the registration of a European company in each Member State. It is particularly important for the Group of Social Democrats to bring together and implement two principles in this Directive, namely the free regulation of the participation of workers in management at the level of the European Shareholder Society and the principle of maintaining the existing level of participation of workers. However, some solutions could be further improved in this principle. That is why, in the Social Democrats Group, we tried to improve the text at the parent working body meeting with the amendments, but without success. The amendments were not supported, although they were amendments prepared by the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, although these amendments also received support in the relevant working body of the State Council. However, the amendments of the four coalition parties and some others have been adopted, but it should be noted that these are mainly terminology harmonisations. In doing so, it should be emphasized that it is all too often that the legislative and legal comments are taken into account only at editorial level and the content comments remain undetected and unfulfilled. In any case, a supplement to Article 39 could be added to the content. However, in the event of partial compliance, the amendment to Article 4 may also need to be adopted. The second consideration of the law is another opportunity to support the two amendments tabled by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats and we expect you to support them at least now. This is to prevent unequal treatment of workers from another country, such as Austria or Germany, if they were employed in a European shareholder company based in our country. Despite some concerns and inconsistencies, we will support the adoption of the law because we believe that this will remove an unacceptable backlog in the adoption of the mandatory directive into national law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to say a little bit more quietly or do it outside because it bothers the one who represents the position. Now for the word, I invite the mags. Capudra, on behalf of NSI.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Members! In October 2001, the Council of Europe adopted a directive supplementing the Statute of a European Society with regard to the participation of workers. The Directive is of a very technical nature. Therefore, in most cases, a direct transposition of the provisions into national law is required. This is why the law that we have before us today is primarily a transfer of requirements and thus aligning our legislation with the legal order of the European Union in this area, in particular with the requirements of the directive already mentioned. However, in certain areas, the Directive allows national legislation to regulate certain issues according to its criteria. These are, in particular, questions relating to the election and appointment of representatives of workers from a country to special negotiating bodies and to the bodies of the workers' representation and the bodies of society, as well as questions relating to the protection of the confidentiality and protection of workers' representatives, and of course criminal provisions. The law regulates the protection of workers' representatives in special negotiating bodies, members of the Council of Workers of the European Shareholder Society, representatives of workers who perform functions in accordance with the information and consultation procedure and representatives of workers in the European Shareholders' bodies who are employed in these companies or in its subsidiaries or branches in the Republic of Slovenia. This protection is regulated in the same way as for workers' representatives in our societies, as it is regulated for members of the councils by the Act on the participation of workers in management and the Labour Relations Act. This shows that the Government is aware of the importance of social dialogue and the participation of employees in management, taking into account the requirements of the Directive, and introduces such procedures as have proved to be good practice. In this respect, the draft law provides that all costs related to the operation of a special negotiating body and to the negotiation in general shall be borne by the participating companies. The issue of criminal provisions is also left to national legislation and, in the context of these, the establishment of judicial powers for the work court in the case of disputes concerning the implementation of the provisions of the law. In New Slovenia-Christian People's Party we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Brenčič has the floor on behalf of the SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thank you very much again for your word. One important principle in the European Union is the principle of partnerships. In the case of this proposal, the partnership law between employees on the one hand and administrations and owners of companies on the other hand. This principle has also been followed by a number of European Union Regulations and Directives, including Directive 2001/86/EC, which provides a legal basis for the creation of a European company and thus a normative framework for the management of employees in it. The proposed bill is a kind of technical replication or summary of the directive and such a document, which is in fact difficult to modify. A proposal for a law establishes a fairly free regulation of workers' participation in the management of a European shareholder society, so that the existing levels of participation of workers in the management of businesses cannot be reduced. In this context, the management or administrative authority establishing a European Shareholder Society should establish a special negotiating body, which shall represent the employees of all participating companies, with the representatives of workers from the Republic of Slovenia elected to this negotiating body on a proposal from the Council of Workers or Trade Unions at the assembly of workers. The whole management system of the European Shareholder Society, including the Labour Representation, is based on mutual trust, which, according to our domestic practice, when more or less by the administrations and the ownership structure, a partnership with employees is needed very often, we may find this more difficult to understand. Following the understanding of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, it would be more appropriate for workers from a Member State of the European Shareholder Society to be assigned one seat in a special negotiating body even when it does not reach 10% of the total number of employees in the European Shareholder Society and should also be treated similarly in the composition of the Council of Workers of the European Shareholder Society after it has been finally established. In addition, we believe that, following the question of informing and consulting the management of the European Shareholder Society in exceptional circumstances, the management should be more committed to succeeding in negotiating the opinion of the Councils of Workers of the European Shareholder Society in at least some compromise way to bring about an agreement, and not as set out in the proposal for a law, that if management decides not to act in accordance with the opinion of the Council of Workers, it can only apply the right to re-meeting with management, which does not define a commitment to reach an agreement at this re-meeting. However, as has already been said, the proposal of this law is a kind of technical revision of the directive and it is difficult to write and understand in individual provisions of the law, as opposed to the rest of the directive, which puts the communication between management and administration or administration and labour representatives at the forefront of mutual trust and genuine partnership. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we will be pleased if it is established in practice in domestic companies, I speak in practice, at least as much as the actual extent of co-management or participation of workers in management as it will be in the European Shareholder Society. Of course, from this title, we will support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u17	Thank you very much. As a last resort, I invite Vice-President Pečet to present the position of the SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u18	Your Honors are here! The fact is, before we set foot in the European Union, we were told about the common market. It is also a fact that, some time ago, we were told about equal opportunities, equal opportunities for the people of the European Union, including Slovenians, as well as for economic operators who will compete in a better and more competitive market. And it is also the fact that the European Union Institute has adopted both a directive and a regulation to help these promises, both for Slovenia and for all other Member States of the European Union, and especially for shareholders who live in Europe and who have their own home companies in individual Member States of the European Union. And if we can say that Europe or the European Community has achieved or surpassed what it has promised, that is, a single market with the same areas of rights and exercise for all shareholders, we can say with the same certainty that unfortunately the Slovenian government has missed out here. Regrettably, if we look at the entry into force of the 2001 Directive, we can see that Slovenia has not yet acceded to this or that Slovenian companies have not yet had a legal basis for accession to a better relationship in the functioning of the European market. As we know, the European Commission has called Slovenia for its inactivity, i.e. Slovenia's inactivity, but not only called, but even threatened to sue the European Court of Justice, unless it takes this step, which, of course, it has committed itself to under the Treaty on European Community. But the fact is that Europe is not concerned about whether Slovenian companies can compete or excuse themselves to have the same governance rights as other European countries, but that Europe is concerned about whether other European countries and their shareholders will have the same rights as Slovenian companies in Slovenia. The fact is, it's just a simple substitution. Therefore, we can confidently say in the National Party that we welcome the basic tendency of the proposed law. It enables Slovenian companies to operate in the same way, especially as regards the management and organisational structure of shares companies as other companies have in other markets. As far as the exercise of activity is concerned, we can say that such a regulation or directive has been implemented, both in this law that is before us today, as we would say, in the second sister law, the law on companies. The discussion on the content of the directive and the regulation on the possibility of choosing one and two-track system points to some right of the founder, I stress, the founder of the company, the shareholder company, to decide on how to manage it. By saying the Founder, of course, it is very reasonable to use that word on the one hand, especially when we look through the eyes of capital. On the other hand, restricting the right to choose one or two-track system in the basic act of a shareholder company exclusively through the position of the founder, and thereby challenge the right, at least after our assessment or minimizing the right of workers to co-management. But anyway, it's still better than nothing that at least co-founders have the right to choose one or two-tier systems. I would like to point out that there is a significant difference between one and two-tier systems, but unfortunately, for time I'm going to skip this part, but I believe you've all mentioned this part before me. Therefore, I would like to point out only the emerging paradox, which, in my opinion, points to the pathetic policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and unfortunately also to the pathetic policy of this National Assembly. Today, we are all big words about co-management or better-spoken cooperation at the so-called micro level. We are all talking about workers' rights at micro level. Why the micro level? Because we're talking about stock companies. While our "breathing", regrettably, and of course our behaviour avoids a large circle of workers' rights to co-operate or cooperate with individual legislation affecting these workers. This means that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia avoids cooperation with the trade unions in the field of tax reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have also concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on two articles and two amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the 28 February amendment review, so please take the document on which it says "new", right above. I am putting to the debate Article 25 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Mag. The spending word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, and especially thank you for the warning on the amendment to Article 30. Let me begin by expressing my disagreement with the way in which the abbreviations are used in this law. It is also in this article about this speech and also in this paragraph, so I do not think I am in breach of the rules of procedure. When we adopt legislation, we are famous and do nothing but do nothing but do it by other nations. And for example, the transposition of this directive in English or in English is called "European Company". In German law or reference to the German text is "Europengeselschaft". This is said to be translated into the national language. We have translated this into a European shareholder society. Throughout the whole law, however, there is an SE shortcut, which is explained in Article 1 of the Act that this is a shortcut to "Societas Europe", but there is no need to draw something through the text that is not covered in the text. But as we say, translation habits are something specific to us, and it might be better to accept a complete system, which is introduced to follow Slovenian names as well. Now for the proposed amendment. The amendment to Article 25, which bears the subtitle Information and consultation in exceptional circumstances, is one of those who have not received support on the labour market. While the first paragraph introduces the word "in time", it is information and consultation, it is very important that information and consultation are timely in cooperation. We do not understand, however, why it was important to point out in the second paragraph that they should be informed in due time of the planned measures. This is very important that this is not about information and consultation, but in particular the consultation cannot be "post festivals". This could only be at the level that workers did not have the opportunity to be informed in time of the planned measures, but were only subsequently informed of the measures they had taken. However, since these are measures of exceptional circumstances concerning such things as resettlement, transfer, termination of branches or society, or cancellation of a large number of workers for business reasons, it seems to me that if we want to protect our interests and that is what this directive is intended to do, protect and prevent abuse, then this would be absolutely necessary. Whether this complements or not, it will also show how we understand the participation of workers in management, or, as it is said, we understand it only at the level of the self-intelligence already adopted, or we really understand it as recorded in the subtitle of this Article, so that, in addition to the notification level, this also has the nature of the consultation. And all the following articles are in favour of the idea that these are, however, planned measures and that this should be so written. Let me warn you one more thing. In the same law, this is in Article 3, where the drafter of the law explains the meaning of the terms: the consultation and the establishment of a dialogue and exchange of opinions between the Council of Workers of the European Shareholder Society or other representatives of workers and the management of the European Shareholder Society shall take place at a time, in a manner and content that allows representatives of workers, on the basis of the information provided, to express an opinion on the planned management measures of the European Shareholder Society, which may be taken into account in the decision-making process in the European Shareholder Society. So we are consistent with what is stated in Article 3, when the applicant explains the terms and makes this or transfer it to Article 25, where, as it is said, we are talking about exceptional circumstances and where knowledge of the plans is all the more important. I expect that this amendment should give you support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Given that article 25 has been conceptually set out, it could include a starting point as set out in this amendment, only those who have drafted this amendment, and this is the association of free trade unions, which has taken this somewhat superficially into consideration and thus the proposed amendment is not consistent with the concept, because we do not say here that those authorities that have the right to decide on some matter will intend to decide something, but they have decided that this is because we have to follow the text further. That is to say, if we are to introduce the word 'planned measures', then the text should also continue to read 'which will have a significant impact on the interests of workers', as a consequence this paragraph also refers to the third paragraph, which, from such a concept as we now wish to change, could also then change the last sentence of the third paragraph and should be interpreted differently. At a meeting organised by the Council of Workers of the European Shareholders' Council, those members of the Council of Workers of the European Shareholder Society who represent workers who will take action may also be entitled to participate, but the word "will be stopped on the basis of such an accession change in the second paragraph". But here we are talking about what measures referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article directly concern. So the union has taken a very superficial approach to this issue. But something else bothers me in this article. I would have preferred to see, as I had already said in the title of the parliamentary group, that in this law, in particular in Article 4, the management or authority that has the right to decide that when, in accordance with the second paragraph of the Council of Workers requested a discussion on these issues, these measures and the opinions of the Council of Workers have not been adopted by this management, we give the right, in the fourth paragraph, to the right to a working representative to meet again with the Council of Workers or to use it, that is all. Let us not make anything binding in this article in such a way that, at another discussion there, the law should somehow oblige those who have taken the decision to take a measure and the working representation to reach some kind of agreement. Not only has the opinion of the Council of Workers been rejected, but we could follow in order to reach an agreement. However, since the whole context of the law is in line, I also know, for example, the German area that regulates the participation of workers in the management of businesses, built on some trust, which is a genuine partnership, and I have also experienced it, so of course, the directive and a similar article 25 did not provide for in the fourth paragraph of the commitment of those who make decisions, i.e. management structures, to reach agreement with the Labour Representation, although from our domestic practice, practice, not what we declare is the right of workers to participate in the management of enterprises, so that this is, of course, more precise and binding, but probably given the origin of the directive, we will not be able to write this down. As joined in the amendment to this Article, as set out by the Free Trade Unions Association, it is regrettable that all of this is an underthinking matter, and even on the Committee, we were unable to face this issue substantively, because the Free Trade Unions Association sent these proposals practically that morning, an hour before we began the Committee's meeting. I am sorry, on the one hand, that we were not able to deepen ourselves into this content at the time, but that approach seems time-consumingly too limited for us to incorporate serious substantive changes into the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Replica, does Master Potter have a word for it, or do you have a replica? Then I'll put you on the list for debate and give you my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment is not supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because it goes first - the first reason is that it goes with such a dictatorship, in fact, to narrow down the rights to only those measures that are planned, not to all the measures that are in place. So, I suggest that we not, of course, violate the rights. The second paragraph of Article 25 is the exact summary of point C, second part of the standard rules of the Directive. Which means that any correction is not necessary, nor is it appropriate. These are two reasons why the government opposes this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mag. It's bad luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The Minister has taken my word, I have written here that it reduces the importance of the right to consultation, only about the planned measures is really unnecessary. That's right. Also semantically, why would a more detailed definition reduce the scope of the provision? Here, in Article 25, there are no exceptions to the circumstances, at least those mentioned here, these are some fundamental changes that take place in an economic society and in such cases the Council of Workers or the Council of Workers has the right to formally consult on the planned matters, but on matters that are not being discussed and discussed in the world have the right, not only at this level, but also at any other appropriate level of leadership, to ask for clarification, to consult and so on. I would expect from the Union of Free Trade Unions, in this article, any other amendments, which are essential, I do not know what workers have the right to even prevent certain changes if there is no agreement in certain cases. There is a culture and also a tradition in Europe that is very different. In such a way that the European Directive leaves open opportunities for which there is a sharper definition in national legislation or in such a way that it weighs in terms of political and value preferences or employers or employees or owners and co-owners, how many more labour rights will be formally allowed in an economic society. I believe that formalities must be as less specific or binding as possible and that, on a culture or cooperation between employers and employees, there will be an appropriate agreement as to how these rights will also be formally enforced by the Treaty. I think that this word is really superfluous and actually restricts what was meant by this provision. I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Hwauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues. The participation of workers in the conduct of businesses is certainly one of the great advances we have made in development or have been made in the development of companies. Cooperation leads to partnership, not conflict and practice in many countries and also in Slovenia, where we have been in law since the year, I think 1993 has shown one host of positive effects of such regulation. A new society is emerging, it is a European shareholder society and it is right to regulate co-ordination in this society as well. Now, why haven't we settled this by now, because we have listened to the evidence that the directive already exists since 8.10.2001, it is true that this could already be regulated, that such a law could already be dealt with by 2002 and 2004 and that it is possible, but because this is not the subject of this amendment, I will no longer discuss it. However, I would really focus on Article 25, on which the amendment is being tabled and as regards information and consultation, I would point out that the article essentially sets two stages of this cooperation between employers and employees. The first paragraph speaks of the fact that, if circumstances exist, it is necessary, or the employer must, or the Council of Workers, have the right to be informed in due time. So, not when we come to action, but when there are reasons that will lead to possible action. In the second paragraph, the Council of Workers shall have the right to take, on its own request, a decision not to be taken by the management or any third party, but on its own request, to meet with the management for consultation and awareness of the measures, not by any measure or measure, but by specific measures. And I agree that this amendment strengthens the scope of rights. See, one is the planned measures planned by management, in scratch, and in life there will be a number of other measures that are not at all related to the planned or the wishes of the management. One is the measures resulting from I do not know from the statute, from the law. What if an inspection finds that one branch does not meet the conditions for operation and prohibits the operation of such a branch? Whether these are planned measures or are measures that management wants - no, they are some other measures, and these measures are also covered in such a dictatorship. Therefore, once again, if we limit these measures and the consultation or notification of the measures to the planned ones alone, we will actually increase the scope of co-management rights for workers. Not last time. If the applicant takes the information and consultation seriously, it is also clear from this Article 25, it is also clear from Article 39, which of course also provides for a relatively large sanction if the employer fails to respect what is stated in Article 25. For this reason, I stress once again that, in my opinion, this amendment strengthens the scope of the rights, I will certainly not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you. There are a few things that need to be answered. The one about the timing of the amendments - it was the text on the state council, it was the text from the treatment on the home labour body so far, so that if it were the will, it could be taught. Now for the language concerns that some here explain. The definition of the "planned measure" is, in the context of the fact that the Council of Workers has the right to teach, at its own request, what will happen. Article 25, paragraph 4, clearly states what the Council of Workers can do to reach an agreement - what has been said that unions should demand more forcefully - is also provided for in Article 4. But as far as the use of the future is concerned. The present level is applied to the general level in the law, in particular in relation to an addict. Because of the use of the meeting, which will then and then become a future in the addictive addiction, there is some general language practice that has little in common with language rules and I am sorry if some of you hang your opposition to this amendment to the language formulation. For it is that this measure has been concerned, the matter and will concern workers, outside the time limit, that is, the one relating to such a measure which affects workers. I would therefore ask that this language formulation should not be an obstacle to anyone's support for this amendment. Or maybe the planned measures are resuscitating or spreading, but there's another thing. The law should be as clear as possible and because we interpret things in different ways to add to that "timely" that it goes "timely" in the context of the planned rather than already accepted - I think that word is in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Hvauc has a word for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u32	I guess I just didn't get it right. I was just saying that I support the fact that the workers' world is familiar with what is going to happen. I support and that's also possible with such a dictatorship. However, if we narrow the dictatorship down to "planned measures", we simply let one set of measures or events happen. That's the whole point of this problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here I have a feeling that it is a transfer of those who do not want to determine the essence of this proposal from the SD Group of Members, or, if you wish, the Union of Free Trade Unions. It's simple: whether the workers find out in advance, or if you want "ex ante" or "ex post" back, that's all this is about. And since the first paragraph of Article 1 of Article 25 is clear and already speaks of being informed of this in due time, the only thing that can be said in the second paragraph is that it is measures, especially those that are planned. And if you have a problem with not being able to support the amendment because of the various language things Mrs Mag is telling you about. Spending a very clear explanation, however, allow your thinking about the planned measures to narrow the right to information, consultation in exceptional circumstances, to have nothing to do with reality. I am particularly surprised here that the government says that the planned measures are the marriage of rights. See, Mr Minister, every company, in particular an undertaking operating on European markets, has a plan for exceptional circumstances. But not in NNP style, what we used to do, but he has a plan called risk management. And one of the key functions that companies develop in administrations is "cheef risk office". This is what every serious European company does. And the key issue is whether those concerned by such a planned measure should be aware of this. And given the fact that you have only dictated "actions", it can mean that in this case in Slovenia these workers will not be informed. Therefore, this key function of risk management is also the reason why "planned measures" should be said here. In the third reading, we can then recast this amendment 'on measures and especially on planned measures', but this is all dependent on whether you are in favour of workers knowing in advance that they are aware of a plan of action for exceptional circumstances. If you are not prepared to do so, it shows that you are not serious about the role of employees in these companies. And now this story about language formulations, I think it was very clear. I am not such a language specialist myself, but I am so familiar with the operation and Slovenian companies, especially those that operate a little wider than in Slovenia, that they have measures in these companies and have planned measures and have measures for, if you want, exceptional circumstances. And that's why it's right here. This is correct to write here that it is a matter of measures and particularly planned measures, if, of course, we complement them in the third reading, but the conditions are to add the word "planned" first before the word "measures" with the understanding that this means that in any way the employees will find out in advance and not in return what their destiny will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman's next.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u36	Thank you. It's not a linguistic complication to me either, it's to try to understand what the proposed amendment hotel is. If I understand him correctly, all he wanted was to ensure more security, more rights, more opportunities to manage. Management under this law is set at three levels. For the first time at the level of information, for the second time at the level of consultation and for the third time at the level of codecision. And, of course, no consultation can then be for "yet convenient" facts. These "hitting facts" are what history deals with. We're not talking about historical issues here, we're talking about social governance. I therefore have no doubts about whether to support or not such an amendment. I personally support him. The complications related to the future are likely to be regulated by a pure text because there is no substantive difference.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I would not like anyone to understand that I am putting myself in the position of someone who has the power to make decisions in such exceptional circumstances when an economic operator gets into some business or other difficulties and then has the right to say so, to decide on measures, but I would just like to say this, as I understand Article 25. This article is conceptually laid down that the person who has the right to decide in such exceptional circumstances has made a decision because he had to take it in the light of the situation in which the company was located. This is how this article is conceived, as I know it from the German law on the participation of workers in management and it has accepted it. This article does not talk about what management intends, plans to take some measures, but has taken them. As such, the article, in accordance with the trust between the partners, then gives the opportunity and right to the working representative to request a discussion of these measures, to agree somehow, how these measures are also for the benefit of the weaker one, that is to say, the world of work through the representation of the working worlds is either mitigated or otherwise agreed. This article, as I know this matter, is not of a preventive nature or of a planning nature, but measures are taken by the rightful one. In this context, I also understand the question of the future. We can literally "push" here, but you know when you need and interpret the law in practice when there is a conflict, how important the time use of writing in some way. Those of you who are lawyers, you must know that. I tried to do this a little after I got acquainted with it when there was an administrative dispute in court. At that time, it means what the legislator intended to impose in the concept of the law for such time use of a record. I just understand Article 25 of the proposal for a directive, and I think it's difficult to change it just by introducing the "planned" issue in the second paragraph. Because it's out of the concept of Article 25. Finally, a slightly more thorough explanation must be given to this question by the proposer's representative, because these are very technical issues related to the global concept of workers' participation in the management of European companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! If social dialogue were any more, this topic would probably be saved here today for all of us. However, I think that the basic purpose of the workers' council is the right to cooperate and co-decision in the business and this debate that we have today is also completely superfluous, because that is exactly what we are doing. The Labour Relations Act itself refers to the fact that representatives of the Council of Workers have the right to co-decision in the company. And the facts which dictate essentially the narrowing of these rights may also be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We must also be aware of this, so it is important to consider whether we will support the amendments or not. I personally believe that the amendments are good for everyone, not just the one we are discussing right now, and they are worth supporting. Because they give justice, the real right that the law abolishes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 25 and put to the debate Article 30 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? Mag. Spending, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u42	Thank you. This amendment, which we are now proposing as an addition to the new paragraph, is paragraph 4, is in fact following a provision clearly laid down by this Directive or the adoption of the Directive. In fact, it follows national legislation. Article 11 of the Directive is included in the legal text in Austrian and German legislation, because the direct application of the Directive would constitute a legal dispute. However, we believe that the inclusion of this paragraph in Article 30 of the dispute could be avoided. At the same time, it would also ensure that abuse is prevented, as it is said, that there is no possibility, I repeat, of a worker who would be in some part of the European company in Austria or Germany, and a share company would have its seat in Slovenia, if it were to do so in an unequal position. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u43	I'm afraid the time has run out. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I think that what has not been said by colleagues regarding Article 30a should be supported. We will support this amendment. But would I be interested in the government's position on this amendment if we could find out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I suggest I give the floor to Mr Hwauc, Minister, and then finally to you. Mr. Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As regards the amendment to Article 30a, which relates to or stems from some fear that some procedures will be misused, that workers from other companies, branches from other European countries will not be properly informed and that a right of co-ordination will be violated from this title and that, in this one-year period, the structure of society may be misused. Article 5(2) clearly lays down the composition of this negotiating body which is responsible for regulating and regulating the area of co-management. It also provides for the participation or presence of representatives from these companies, branches, other companies across other European countries. However, as regards the change in the structure, it is also quite clear in Article 7 that if changes occur, changes should also be followed by changes in this negotiating body. And from this point of view, I see no particular need to support such an amendment because of possible abuse or fear of abuse. But there's one other thing that actually bothers me that maybe in theory those who were more involved in co-management seem to like the amendment. I, who have actually had practical experience since 1993 with this, of course I know what the spirit is and what the life of such a law and such ones has determined, so of course I am a little surprised by this approach. Given that the law in force, which is parallel to this new law that we adopt, is the law on the participation of workers in the management of businesses, and since 1993, when the law was adopted, the possibility of actually abuse of this right of workers has been allowed all the time. If someone was disturbed by a representative in the supervisory world, where they were too disturbed and where other legal conditions were involved, the supervisory council either shrunk, the number, or even terminated. And the workers didn't have a word for it. Or, for example, an institute of a working director who is or is not, even if the company has more than 500 employees, it is not necessary for the working director to be a member of the board. Where this was disturbing, where the employer was disturbed, the administration was only one-member and was a working director, I don't know, otherwise a working director on the paper, but actually did not participate in any decisions, let alone to make decisions. Not to mention, however, that, in some institutions, co-management in general - what is essentially established by the Constitution and constitutional rights - has not been guaranteed at all. One example is RTV, where it was only after the decision of the Constitutional Court and the amendment of the law that the exercise of these rights actually took place. [[...]] [[Talking to each other.]] Then we'll talk about it, Mrs. Shirca, if we're ready. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u47	Please, that's nice.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u48	I say this once again: this amendment actually opens up some doubts, some concerns that have been open in all these 15, 16 years, and that makes the amendment a possible hypocrisy. Thank you. I don't know him, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u50	Abuse is prohibited in any case; of course, it is now an amendment that limits it to just one year after the establishment of a European shareholder society. However, we have written in Article 22 that every year, this would even mean again, as in the previous amendment, that only one year, only in the first year, and that is why the amendment is, in fact, in some way, a violation of justice. I reiterate that abuse is always prohibited and, in fact, points to Article 35. With regard to the composition of the world or proportionality, however, as has already been pointed out in the debate - Article 7 of the law provides. For these reasons, the Government does not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Minister, can you please turn off the microphone? Thank you very much. Master Strabe.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I will also vote against this supplement because it only has one assumption of the abuse of the European co-management company to reduce and withdraw its rights. It would be interesting to hear the opinion of the legislative and legal service, but in fact it is interesting to conclude in this amendment and to standardise the infringement with an additional article which, instead of sanctioning, would prevent alleged abuses, this is also unnecessary. In general, this provision is now not in the context of Article 30 - it is completely out of context. Perhaps it would be interesting to hear the opinion of lawyers, absolutely unnecessary because matters are being sanctioned as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you. Now, as I have understood this, this amendment, in particular, what is meant by abuse, "when changing the structure" and so on "receiving or reducing labour rights" - I understand this only in this context, that as a result of increasing society at some point there is no adequate increase in workers' representatives in the working world or in the workers' world. And therefore, if we have the solution in Article 22 that this thing should be reviewed once a year, is expected, then I do not see any fear of such abuse. I think that in the first year, it's said, from the time that a stock company is set up, up to one year, but after all, it's a start time, and I think that at some point in time, when things get on their feet, I think sometimes it's necessary to be a little patient.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you, Master Capudre. Master Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to join Mr Štebet's proposal and propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we call on the legislative and legal service to give an opinion on this amendment or to say what the concerns are here. The point is that this amendment, as I understand it, was presented an hour before the meeting of the parent working body, and was then summarised, so that the legislative and legal service did not define it or could not obtain the opinion of lawyers. So it would be really good, especially to hear what the government has said: does this 30.a really mean that it is contrary to Article 22, which speaks of the fact that once a year the change in the number requires a change - blah blah, is now paragraphs 30.a and 22 in mutual conflict. And article 30a means, of course, marrying rights. I think it would be of interest for us to decide whether we would support this amendment, whether it was absolutely necessary. This is how I propose that you call on the legislature to give us an opinion on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Given that we are now receiving two initiatives by the coalition and by the opposition regarding the application of Article 66, paragraph 5, I will nevertheless decide to suspend the meeting for 5 minutes in order to consult the legislative and legal service for how long it takes for them to give an opinion on the amendment tabled. So I'm adjourning the session in five minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u58	Please take your seats, those of you who are willing to cooperate to continue the meeting. So, the legislative and legal service has informed me that they will prepare a written opinion in about half an hour on the compliance of this amendment with our legislation and, of course, with European legislation, they cannot deepen themselves into the content itself. I propose, however, that we end this point, continue with the third point and also complete it, and then, if necessary, discuss the opinion of the legislative and legal service, and further discuss this amendment in the context of the time available. If I don't see any particular opposition, I thank you for your understanding. I'm breaking up with that point. I'm moving to three. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Participation of Workers in Management. We've got 40 minutes. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Dusan Kumr. In this regard, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons proposed to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law should not be considered further. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposers of the Law for further explanation. Mr. Kumer, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Now that I've heard this one-and-a-half hour debate, I've come to some conclusion that there really is nothing more to piss off people than the truth and the truth today that I've listened to this hour and a half is that we've engaged incredibly verbally in more co-ordination, and the practice and the marriage solutions themselves are talking about the opposite of taking this right away from the workers. Therefore, the basic reason that we decided in the Group of Members of the Social Democrats to amend the law on the participation of workers in the management of companies is that, in the context of a comprehensive reform of the company law, there is also a possibility for companies to freely choose between the so-called two-track and unitary corporate governance. Since individual solutions to the law on the participation of workers in management are fully adapted to the only two-tier system currently in force with the administration and the supervisory board as management and control bodies, there is an urgent need for appropriate legal arrangements for the participation of workers also in the bodies of companies with a single management system. Without it, there would be an unacceptable legal void. This means, however, that employees of companies with a single management system could be substantially, at the same time legally unfounded, deprived of their constitutional right to participate in management compared to those of companies with a two-tier management system. There is therefore a clear link between the two laws in the chapters and the articles defining the participation of workers in the management of companies. As envisaged in the basic proposal for a company law, it is also necessary to make it clear that the rights of workers to co-participating in the management of companies with a single management system would be severely reduced. More! It was some kind of deliberate move and the purpose of the writers of this first draft law on the expulsion of workers from participation in the management of companies with a single management system. According to the content, these provisions defined and applied only a purely voluntary basis for the participation of employees in the management of companies with a single management system, based on an agreement between employees and employers. Therefore, replacing the statutory rights of employees with an agreement between workers and employers and employers would constitute a clear step backwards. In short, the initial intent of the writers of the law was not favourable to the workers, it was extremely humane, and it is therefore necessary to highlight and positively assess the efforts of the Minister for Economic Affairs, who has listened to these concerns and arguments and in dialogue and in seeking compromise, the proposal of the Law on Economic Companies is now substantially corrected. Workers in future and final provisions until this area is regulated by this law, which we propose, shall be provided with a third representation on the boards of companies with a single management system. And since we know that, according to the majority government's opinion in this National Assembly, it will not undermine our proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law and because the Ministry of Labour and Family has promised to prepare a new proposal in May this year, I will take this opportunity to highlight some of the arguments in particular with the hope that the writers of this amendment will listen to them. We believe that, in principle, no solution can be acceptable, which comparatively gives workers to companies with a single system of less participatory rights than workers with two-tier management already enjoy under the current legislation. The question whether at least a unit working representation in the supervisory council and at least a unit working representation on the board of directors are comparable or not has never been disputed in Europe. More! The Directive on the participation of workers in European equity society is clear and unequivocal here. The answer to this question is, of course, that they are comparable and probably some other appropriate systemicly consistent solutions in this sense are not even available. Finally, because I'm running out of time. Last but not least, development, new added value, profit are not categories that are only due to the good location of capital, and are also due to healthy, positive climate, knowledge and skills, and employee drive in some working environment, and that is precisely what [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u60	Time's up, Mr. Kumer. Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Grill has the floor on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u61	[[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the participation of workers in management. [[...]] We also support all the proposals and marriage solutions that follow in any way the goals that can benefit employees or workers. As we see in the applicant's explanation, the proposal for a law was prepared to seek solutions to the changes it will make or bring about a new company law. The Company Act is certainly one of the most important laws that has an important impact on the development of entrepreneurship in Slovenia. But, as we know, this company law is only second-reading and will be dealt with in the coming days. From a public presentation of the opinions delivered on the proposal for a company law on 26 January, it is clear that a compromise solution is envisaged for the issues of employee participation in management and has not yet been finalized. Many amendments have been tabled and the final text of this Act and the solutions adopted can be substantially changed according to the original text. And that is why, in the SDS, it seems pointless for us to adopt, above all, an irrational law, the content of which relates to the legal solutions of another law, which has not been adopted at all. Such a view was also taken by the legislature in its report, which notes that the solutions provided for in the proposed law are closely related to the solutions provided for in the company law, which, as already mentioned, is only in the context of the legislative procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also notes in its opinion that the proposed amendments and additions to the draft law are completely incompatible and inconsistent with the proposed regulation of the single system and cannot therefore be supported. It is also not appropriate to pre-judge the questions of participation of workers in a single system when it has not yet been fully legalised. It is therefore quite understandable that the Government opposes such a bill and also proposes to the National Assembly not to accept it as an appropriate basis for further proceedings. We are aware in the SDS that this matter is very complex. There will certainly be a great deal of interdepartmental coordination here, at least between the two ministries, so we propose to adopt a company law first. Only the final content of this law will allow us to follow the proposal of such a law as we are considering today. For all these reasons, the SDS Group will not support this proposal for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Germić has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The proposed amendments and additions to the law on the participation of workers in the management of the LDS Club are understood as the proposaler's wish to follow the constitutional principle of equality before the law in order to enable companies' workers with a single management system to have the same level of rights of participation in company management as the existing and applicable law on the participation of workers in the management of companies with a two-tier management system. As a result of the principle of equality, we will support the proposed law for further consideration. Although the government ensures that the participation of workers in companies with a single management system will be temporarily regulated in the new law on pan-European companies proposing the implementation of a single management system and will be adopted in the second reading at this meeting, in the LDS Club we consider the proposed law of opposition colleagues and colleagues to be a good basis for further consideration. We are also convinced by the legislative opinion of the legal service, which states that there is no comment on the proposal for a legal text itself. We are convinced that the regulation of the issue of the participation of workers in management can only be the substance of the law on the participation of workers in management as a specific law for this area, which is essential for maintaining the fundamental consistency of the legal system in Slovenia. This is also confirmed by the State Council or its Commission for Social Activities and the Association of Councils of Workers of Slovenian Enterprises, which support the law, and ultimately by the Government, which brings the law on the participation of workers in the management of European companies in parallel with the law on economic activity. It is a matter of the fact that amendments and additions to the law on cooperation in governance are proposed by opposition Members and Members of Parliament and the law on the participation of workers in the management of the European company. The contents of both laws are related and the two laws are closely related to the solutions provided for in the proposal for a company law. It is precisely because of the last fact that we cannot agree with the Government's explanation that it is necessary to adopt a company law at the first stage and that, on the basis of the provisions concerning co-management of workers, a law on the participation of workers in management will be prepared at the end of May. This means that, at best, the law will only be passed in the autumn, which is unacceptable and too late for the House of Representatives. Because we considered and still believe that this law should be adopted in order to allow the co-ordination of workers in companies with a single management system, we have proposed to our colleagues and colleagues in the ruling coalition that we should move the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in management to the next meeting in March, when we will already be aware of the changes in the company law and have been taken into account in the work concerning the co-management of workers. In this way, the debate on changes and additions to the law on the participation of workers in management would be moved to the next meeting of the National Assembly, and the government would have no reason to oppose amendments and amendments to the law. Let me remind you that the Government has based its negative opinion on the law precisely by adopting, at the first stage, a law on companies and then amending and supplementing the law on the participation of workers in management. Our proposal, which went towards finding a solution and adopting the law as soon as possible, was not supported by the ruling coalition, despite the fact that the law does not have any comments on the law and that the ruling coalition agreed that it was necessary. All of this points to the seriousness of the intention of the ruling coalition to establish a constructive dialogue with the opposition, which will not be based on an established sentence: "The government does not support the law because the government's work programme envisages the adoption of legislation for the end of May" - or if I translate. The government does not support the law because it was proposed by the opposition. This, however, can be called the non-stately holding of the ruling coalition. We are even more surprised that the ruling coalition continues the practice of rejecting opposition proposals, because yesterday in the National Assembly we listened to the reply of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of Member Paul Gantar, how the government represents co-operation with the opposition. The Prime Minister spoke about a partnership for development, constructive cooperation between the position and the opposition, cooperation in the implementation of the objectives, cooperation in the drafting of legislation and so on. If, in the case of a law which has a basis for the adoption in the constitutional principle of equality and which is orally supported by the ruling coalition on the home labour body, the government does not want the opposition to cooperate solely because the proposal is opposition, then in the LDS Parliamentary Club we strongly doubt the sincerity of the offer to participate in the form of a partnership for development. For all the reasons mentioned in the LDS, we cannot support the conclusions of the parent working body that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Potrč will present the position of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The involvement of workers in business management is not a relic of the past, nor is it a continuation of the system of labour self-government from a period of socialism. This can be understood only by uneducated and malicious individuals or parties. Parties that do not know that the system of co-management of workers is introduced not only because of the rights of workers but also because of the protection of the interests of capital owners, in order to ensure social peace and social partnership, which ensures sustainable and sustainable development. I still hope that it is our common interest, that the interests of work and capital for the sake of social peace, which is a prerequisite for economic and social success, as well as for regulation, as in comparable European countries, will not be ignored. And only this objective was a condition, and that was the reason why the Social Democrats proposed amendments and additions to the law on the participation of workers in the management of businesses. The government wanted to regulate the issue of co-management in the company law and not in the co-management law when introducing a single system of corporate governance. And by content at a level that would significantly deviate from similar arrangements in companies with a two-tier management system. In order to maintain consistent system regulation and to ensure approximately equal opportunities and conditions for co-management in companies with both management systems, we have decided to propose a law. We're still sure we did the right thing. This is also confirmed by the decisions of the Committee on the Economy, which concluded that the regulation of co-management issues does not fall within the substantive provisions of the Company Act, and has therefore stated in the transitional provisions that solutions apply only until we adopt the law that we are currently discussing. As a result, we do not understand why the government opposes the proposed law. If the company law is adopted in March at the latest, and even more so if it is adopted earlier, all the substantive solutions to co-managing the company with the single system and to the law on the participation of workers in management will be known, there will be no systemic and concrete substantive obstacles to deciding on it in March. However, if this is a matter of uncoordinated views within the government and the Ministry of the Economy understands modern forms of corporate governance and the Ministry of Labour is more subordinate to an ideological approach, then the preliminary adoption of the company law is not at all essential, since the content of rights will be decided independently in this law. I believe, therefore, that there are no valid substantive reasons for rejecting the law. The constant repetition of the same pattern, when the opposition's substantively indisputable laws are rejected only because the government and the coalition are not prepared to harmonise the substantive solutions with the opposition in the national assembly, is not good. I would advise that once it is exceeded that Members and Members of the coalition exceed this already used template, especially if we really want them to be able to believe the friendly performances of the Prime Minister on the question of the mission. Forget it, Members of the Coalition, on this bad practice and do as you say. You are therefore voting against the proposal of your mother's working body and allow us to speak in March about the substantive proposals contained in this law. And in the end. The government also has a debt by regulating the participation of workers in the management of institutions. Finally, that is what the Constitutional Court requires. Tell me, gentlemen of the government, when will you propose to settle this issue; or will you wait again for us to submit the law and then reject it under the pretext that it is not yet the right time and that you will soon come with a better and more comprehensive solution? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Capuder on behalf of NSI.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Members and Members of Parliament. The opposition probably already knows what I'm gonna say, but I'm gonna say it anyway. The accompanying document prepared by the applicants for the law on the participation of workers in management states that the basic objective of the law is to harmonise the applicable law on the participation of workers in the management of proposed new company laws, on a single system of management of companies, namely, the section on the participation of workers in company bodies. The main principle to be followed by the proposed new solutions is the constitutional principle of equality before the law. In the spirit of this principle, it is essential to ensure that employees of companies with a single management system, in different concrete forms, are provided with a reasonable level of rights of participation in the management of companies through the authorities of the company, as already provided by the law for employees of companies with a two-tier management system. The main and basic reason why in New Slovenia -the Christian People's Party cannot support the mentioned novelty of the law - is certainly that the law on economic societies has not been adopted at all. And so there are no known solutions in it regarding a single management system. The second reason why we will not support the law is that, in proposing a meaningful application, it has laid down for the participation of employees in a two-track system for cases of a single system. This, however, puts the Supervisory Board and the Management Board at an equal corporate level, which some consider to be professional and legally unacceptable because of the fact that it is entirely different in nature. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its opinion, considers the proposed amendments and additions to the law to be completely incompatible and inconsistent with the proposed regulation of the single system in the company law and therefore cannot be supported in any way. At the same time, the government also considers that it is not time-consuming to deal with the issue of the participation of workers in the management of the single system, when it is not fully legal at all. For these reasons, we will support in the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party the conclusion that the amendment of the law on the participation of workers in management is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Brenčič has the floor, on behalf of the SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, regardless of the fact that in companies or companies the capital representation assumes a fully dominant role in governance, we strongly favour the need to establish a genuine partnership principle in practice and not only declaratively, as is the case every day. This can also motivate employees from a completely wage-free relationship in terms of co-membership, including on the issue of how to achieve the best possible operation of the company, which is certainly what ensures better social security for all of us. The existing law on the participation of workers in the management of businesses or companies has also been conceptually directed in this respect, but at least as regards the question of the mission of labour councils in the application of the basis for the establishment of a genuine partnership between management and workers, it has not been fully elaborated. Proposals for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the participation of workers in management want to align the existing law with the amendments proposed on the issue of the management system of companies or companies, which is a new government law on companies, which is at this meeting of the National Assembly at a stage of second reading, and establishes, in addition to the existing system of dual management of companies, a system of single management of companies. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are united that, on the issue of the right of workers to participate in the management of companies by implementing a new company law, there should not be a legal void or inability for workers or employees to enter the management system in a single system, at least temporarily, which was taken into account in the second reading of the proposal for a company law on the home body. It is entirely possible, once the Act on Companies in the National Assembly has been adopted in its final content, to amend or supplement the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the participation of an employee in management, to which the decision of the parent body in question concerns and which the national assembly will decide. Of course, it is reasonable to have an answer in the legislative and legal opinion, at least by the one who took this legislative and legal opinion into consideration. However, the practice of the previous mandate continues, continues now, and, of course, the government does not support the proposal of this law. However, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect the Government to prepare as soon as possible a proposal for amendments to the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management, which will be consistent with the new Law on Economic Companies and will also bring into law the necessary other amendments, which will be previously coordinated and agreed on in the Economic and Social Council and will, of course, submit it to the National Assembly in the procedure. On this basis or at this stage, the proposal for the conclusion of the working body will be supported in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Ms Žganjer Tavš has the floor on behalf of the SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you very much for your words, Minister of State, and of course also Members and Members. In fact, this session deals with three sectoral laws that are interconnected or interdependent. This framework also includes, last but not least, the amendment of the law on the participation of workers in management, which is in fact a logical consequence of changes in the framework of the company law. The main purpose of this law, as we have already heard today, is to harmonise the applicable law on the participation of workers in the management of proposed new provisions of the Company Act, on a single system of management of companies governed by the Government under the said Act on Economic Companies. The Company Act, inter alia, legitimizes the possibility of freely choosing between the so-called two-tier system and the so-called single corporate governance system. The Law on the participation of employees in management currently governs the participation of workers in company bodies in a two-tier system of corporate governance. It is therefore essential to properly regulate the cooperation of workers in the bodies of companies with a single system. Otherwise, a legal void will arise with regard to the comprehensive regulation of workers' rights to participate in company bodies. And this legal void is actually full of the law in question, in which the applicant was also based on the assumption that the contentious provisions of the proposal will only be temporary until the adoption of the amendment of the law on the participation of workers in management. The fact is that the right to participate in management is a constitutional right, which, last but not least, is governed by the existing law on the participation of workers in the exercise, which, as has already been said, needs to be adapted to the law on companies, to the law adopted at this meeting. We will not oppose the law in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, but it is true that the law is opposed by a government that promises to prepare its own law and, consequently, by its mother's working body. In fact, it is a stable practice of this government, because obviously the billmaker is not the right one. Allow me to substantiate the sentence I said earlier. The Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group has tabled several amendments to the Act on Companies in Work, which specifically concerns the preservation of workers' rights to information or participation in management, in cooperation with trade unions, which have been systematically rejected, because - the reasons given correctly by the government representative - "are not the substance of the company law, but fall within the scope of the Act on the Cooperation of Workers in Performing." There was also a mistake, however, in the case of government MPs, because they systematically rejected the opposition's amendments and overlooked that the government had also tabled an amendment to its law which was essentially the same as the Slovenian National Party's amendment, which was voted on only once. So much for the "ferple" and the promises of this government that it also takes into account the opposition's good proposals. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not support the decision of the parent working body, which is negative. While it is true that a decision has also been adopted at the meeting of the Committee on the Economy on the basis of the promises and guidelines of the government representative by government Members that, or should be, the competent minister should include the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the content of the amendments of the Slovenian National Parties in the framework of the Government Act on the participation of workers in management. Nevertheless, today's amendment is not an obstacle, and since today the Minister is here with us, since it is known that the proposal for a decision of the home labour body will be adopted, at least on the composition of this national assembly, it is of course to expect or appeal to the Minister to listen to the decision taken by the Committee on the Economy on 15 February 2006 and to include what is, of course, to be included in the framework of the law for which the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The last one has the word, Mr Rezman, on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u73	Thank you very much. In the previous item on the agenda, we have pointed out that this law must also be read in the context of some others, and only in this context can it be understood why the DeSUS Group believes that the proposal for a decision formulated by the mother's working body should not be supported. So, to put it bluntly, we do not support this proposal that the law is not appropriate. The law, as we said, should be read at the same time. It must also be read at the same time because, in the previous item of the agenda, we have adopted a law on a European shareholder society, which is also of an optional nature, which is working in stock and which therefore does not yet have a legal basis in the Law on Economic Companies, which we will adopt tomorrow. In this way, one of the arguments of non-governmental rejection falls on its own. The proposers wanted to harmonise certain provisions that are expected to be adopted in the framework of the Law on Economic Companies and the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management. Their attempt went in a direction to prevent, say, this terminology of ZGD, the expulsion of workers in the management of those companies that will be managed in a uniform manner. They also wanted to prevent, as has already been said several times, a legal void that was coming and that is what the government agreed to be. However, to ensure comparable, not entirely identical, the status of those employed in single management companies with the status of those employed in two-tier management companies. It is necessary to know that this proposal was a law in management under other circumstances, as we speak today. Thus, in the circumstances where the ZGD was not yet under second treatment on its parent labour body and when many amendments have not yet been adopted which have substantially changed the Law on Economic Companies, these amendments have not yet been adopted. Article 289, which is important, was amended by Article 702, which adopts certain features that the Workers' Co-ordination Act offers in this form that we now have before us and also somehow abandons the authority over a special law that was still very obvious there during that period. In the interim period, so now we have different circumstances. And now it seems that all three of the fundamental reasons the government and the mother's labour body have expressed as reasons for rejecting the law have fallen into their consistency. First of all, because it's not about incompatibility anymore. If we were to squeeze the co-mans, then it was incompatible. Secondly, it is no longer a matter of attracting the claim that there is nonconsistency in marriage. Nor is it to be able to discern the optional nature of this law. If this is not reflected in the law that we have previously drawn up ourselves, that is, within the government, it has exactly the same nature, because it is bound to the same unadopted law, to the law on economic societies. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, it is our view that the decision of the parent working body, which speaks of the fact that the law is not suitable for further consideration, cannot be given our support. We will be happy, however, if the government really prepares a new law in a very short time and I think it will be possible, because it has a good example already in this law, which it rejects and which, at least as far as nomotechnicians are concerned, is quite acceptable for the legislative and legal service as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u74	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal for a decision by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th agenda or no later than 20 hours and 25 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to move on to 4. It's a second-hand proposal for a law on the abolition of the consequences of asbestos. We have 5 hours and 50 minutes to discuss. The draft law has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so I invite the Minister of Mag. A trifle for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u75	Honourable Members, Members and others in attendance! Slovenia is a social state and according to this fact the government has also drawn up a law that implements this in practice and not just on paper. Science and technology improve our lives. At the same time, they cause a lot of traps. Unfortunately, even dangerous to human health and life. In the meantime, it is asbestos, which has already been removed from production and production by law, even though it is still present in our living environment. The law provided the country in an appropriate and appropriate manner to respond to the plight of asbestos patients and to provide them with more rights than other patients who also had cancer due to the adverse effects of the environment. They responded in a manner of appropriateness, proportionality and social justice. The asbestos bill will replace the law banning the production and transport of asbestos products and the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production into asbestos, which has been in force since 1996. The law gives the right to employees in companies that have processed and stored asbestos or asbestos products in jobs where they have been exposed to asbestos. To be true, this law also entitles persons who are employed in companies that use and dispose of asbestos products in jobs where they have been exposed to asbestos. The law lays down occupational diseases due to exposure to asbestos, which are taken into account in the recognition of rights. With regard to disease indications, the range of beneficiaries under this law is wider than those seen in other European countries, which shows that the government has responded arbitrarily to patient distress, even more broadly than in other countries. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall appoint an Interdepartmental Commission for the negotiation procedures for the recognition of damages and for the recognition of the right to a pension under more favourable conditions. The way in which this Commission works will be determined by the Rules of Procedure. An interdisciplinary group of experts appointed by the Minister responsible for health shall carry out the verification of occupational disease due to exposure to asbestos and the assessment of the reduction of life functions. The proposal sets out the maximum amounts of compensation for occupational diseases due to exposure to asbestos. The country covers 60% and the companies or legal successors of these companies 40%. In cases where an economic company no longer exists or would be in danger of operating it, the State may also take over a larger part of the payment. The amount of compensation shall be reduced to the beneficiary according to the anticipated development of the disease, the type of disease and the impairment of life functions. The right to a disability pension may be exercised under more favourable conditions if they have the recognised status of a second or third category disabled by virtue of the general rules on pension and disability insurance, additional conditions shall be at least 25 years of age and at least 50 years of age. Dear Members and Members. Here we can also ask the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia why we have prepared a special law for this category of patients and provided more rights than for other patients who have cancer and other occupational diseases. It should be pointed out that the extent of the rights guaranteed under this law under pension, disability insurance, compensation and disability benefits do not have other cancer diseases. More rights are given to asbestos patients. This is justified by the weight of the disease and its hidden and slow functioning. The State has thus also assumed part of its responsibility under the civil law of economic society itself in order not to endanger the business of companies and consequently the loss of jobs. In many ways, then, we have taken care of responsibility and justice. The law does not prevent other citizens who have not been employed in state companies which have been involved in the production and processing of asbestos from getting sick because of the harmful functioning of asbestos, from making fair reparations to those who have caused the disease in accordance with the principle of liability. They are also entitled to all forms of treatment and rights under pension, disability and health insurance, as are those who have been affected by other indications. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have prepared for asbestos patients in this law is optimal. We must be aware that there are many cancerous patients in Slovenia who do not have their own marriage and, as a result, have the same scope of rights as asbestos patients. There are always new and new substances that cause cancer. These categories of patients have general rights under the pension or health law. We must be aware of our abilities, for we are all taxpayers. The compensation we have provided is optimal and comparable in terms of wages more than proportional in other European countries. So we worked with responsibility, justice, and a sense of distress for the sick. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Brenčič, Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons to present the Committee's report on the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well, the working body dealt with the law in question at its 11th regular meeting on 15 February. A representative of the proposer with the Minister of Magi participated in the work of the Committee. Smallpox, representative of the legislative and legal service, representatives of asbestos trade unions and association with asbestos patients, economic and trade chambers, then representatives of the companies Kletilnica Sodražica, Donita Medvode, Salonita Anhovo, Slovenian Railways and representative of the Clinical Institute for the Medicine of Work, as well as representative of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The legislative and legal service has examined the law in question and has also made specific comments to a number of articles. The amendments to the proposed law were tabled by 4 coalition members, then by Ambassador Srečko Friend, MP Samo Bevk and Breda Pecan, MEP mag. Vasja Klavora and Ambassador Stanislav Brenčič. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Activities was presented by Tone Peršak and stressed that the Commission has made a number of observations, which are essentially the same as the amendments tabled by Mr Happy Friend and are supported by the Council of State. The debate on Article 1 of the proposed law on the amendments tabled raised the view that the bill was not fully aligned with the social partners or with the health profession. Amendments proposed by Samo Bevk and Lucky Friends stressed that the amendments change the concept of the law because they believe that it is necessary to include in the law all those who have become sick due to asbestos exposure and not only those who have worked with asbestos. In the next debate, some discussers felt that this bill did not provide legal protection, that there was no register of patients, that there was insufficient attention to the negative effects of asbestos, and that it was unacceptable to bind the disease only to a occupational disease. Others felt that the proposal for a law was good that no consequences could ever be covered. They raised the question of whether it was a country or a company, the legal successors of former companies. They also considered that the capacity of the State should be taken into account as the consequences of the enlargement of beneficiaries would be unpredictable. The Director-General of the Directorate for Labour, Labour Relations and Rights of Marko Stroves stressed that the State is not guilty, but that it is subsidising to take over part of the compensation from the primary responsible cause. This proposal therefore focuses only on occupational diseases. The debate on Article 2 of the bill and the amendments tabled underlined the view that legal heirs of the deceased, whose death is due to occupational exposure to asbestos, should also be included in the draft law. The broad debate was also attended by a number of external participants whose majority wanted to see the conceptuality of the law in a different design. The discussion also included Dr Dodič Fikfak in some aspects of the professional understanding of this issue. The debate on Article 8 and the amendments tabled took place mainly with regard to membership in the Interdepartmental Commission, where some took the view that a member of this Commission should also be a representative of asbestos patients. In the debate on Article 10, the Chamber of Economics pointed out that the Chamber of Economic Affairs and also a large number of undertakings liable to pay the part of the compensation somehow did not feel obliged to pay this compensation. In the course of the debate, amendments were adopted by the four coalition groups and by Ambassador Stanislav Brenčič. The amendments of Happy Friends, Sam Bevko and Brada Pecan were not accepted. Some amendments have become irrelevant and the Committee has also adopted its amendments to Articles 1, 5, 6, 7 and 16 of the draft law and thus further address the shortcomings identified in the legislative and legal opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Germič, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Asbestos is a common name for a group of fibre silicons. Due to resistance to lush, acid and high temperatures, it has been used to a large extent in industry and construction. Asbestos thus contains more than 3,000 products, including water pipes, sewerage and irrigation systems and asbestos-cement roof coverings, various insulation of buildings and electrical guides, brake discs and seals, and longer asbestos fibres were also used in the textile industry. Also in Slovenia, a third of the buildings are still covered with critiques containing solidly bound asbestos, asbestos water pipes are over 100,000 kilometres, many buildings, although no data is available, and have insulation, interference or soil from materials with weakly bound asbestos. From 1946 to 1996, 67,000 tonnes of asbestos were invested in Slovenia, 14 companies used it in their production, 10 companies involved it in imported products and 8 companies sold them in retail sales. Warnings on the harmful effects of asbestos have been known since the end of the 19th century, and not until the serious consequences of exposure to asbestos and many tragic losses of human life in the late 80s of the previous century were discovered. Only in 1998, 1999 did the European Union countries definitively prohibit the use of all types and forms of asbestos. In our country, too, it was not until 1996 that we banned the production and transport of asbestos products, restructured asbestos production into asbestos and resolved certain social issues of workers who were exposed to the harmful effects of asbestos dust. This law, despite the fact that it was adopted too late, played a central role in solving the asbestos problem in our country. The years of implementation of the law have mainly resulted in the completion of the restructuring of asbestos production, and despite the novelties some legal solutions have also proved to be flawed. The previous LDS-led government is aware that after 8 years of implementation of the law, this issue needs to be addressed by a new more comprehensive law, so in early 2004, it set up a special interdepartmental working group, which prepared a comprehensive review of the implementation of this law, a forecast of the assessment of the sick and a starting point for the preparation of the new law. As a result of the end of the previous government's mandate, the new law failed to prepare, which is why the current government has taken on this role. In January 2005, we extended the 1996 law in the National Assembly, and after the re-renewal was refused, the government finally submitted a proposal for a new law to remedy the consequences of asbestos work. Despite the fact that the government had already prepared professional grounds for the new law and that it had taken more than enough time to prepare the marriage text, it turned out that it had not aligned it with all interested parties to some extent. This is also the main observation that we are referring to the government at the LDS. This was the case with a number of comments from social partners, companies, professional associations and trade unions and asbestos patients. Despite the fact that a complementary proposal has been prepared in the home labour body after extensive discussion, which contains some amendments to the legislative text, we consider that these are not sufficient, so together with the Social Democrats' Group of Members of Parliament and the Friends of the State Assembly, we propose the adoption of amendments, the content of which is based on the fact that Slovenia is also a social state and on the principle of fairness and solidarity. In our firm belief, everyone who has been identified as a professional or other disease due to exposure to asbestos powder must be entitled to compensation and pension on a more favourable condition. Thus, also residents who lived in the business premises of companies where asbestos or asbestos products were grown or stored. Under certain conditions, legal heirs of the pension must also be entitled to compensation, and most often children are required to do so. We are further of the opinion that in the course of damages in judicial proceedings, Republic of Slovenia should cover compensation of 60% of the amount fixed, and in cases of cancer, compensation should be covered in full. For the Republic of Slovenia cannot and must not deny the responsibility for the presence of a large amount of asbestos in our environment, which can be cancerous when its fibres are inhaled at a minimum. We also propose that the fifth member of the Interdepartmental Commission be proposed by organisations of persons affected by asbestos. It is a matter of achieving a civil standard so that patients can also be involved in decision-making on the rights of the sick. And finally, we object to tightening the conditions for obtaining a disability pension under more favourable conditions. The right to early retirement should be exclusively linked to the disease identified and not to additional conditions not yet known by the 1996 law. Your Honor! In the LDS, we are aware that many human destinys, the immeasurable suffering of individuals and their relatives are unfortunately linked to the legal text. We expect that this fact to be realized by the majority in the National Assembly, when today it will decide on the amendments and that these amendments will also be accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Bevik to present the position of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, Mr Vice President, the House of Respect. With the proposed amendments to the opposition, we are modifying or complementing the concept of the law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work also by addressing the consequences of asbestos exposure, i.e. with an environmental and not just professional aspect of asbestos disease. Asbestos diseases are all over the world and also in the European Union separated from other occupational diseases, as asbestos is the only substance to be recognised as a professional cancer and remains a professional asbestos cancer in the European Union. This month, the Dutch Government announced an amendment to the legislation that would equalise the rights of patients with mesothalioma, whether they have become sick at work in asbestos production or whether they have been exposed to asbestos in the natural environment, particularly in the business environment. Experts in Europe predict that some 250,000 people will die from asbestos in the next 20 to 30 years, and nearly half a million are expected to die from asbestos. In Slovenia, 23 000 workers were exposed to asbestos dust. Due to the very long latent period until the outbreak of one of the asbestos diseases, experts estimate that the peak of asbestos disease in Slovenia will be expected around 2025. In addition to the Soča valley, where the malignant mesothalioma continues to grow, there are two major hotspots in Slovenia, Ljubljana and against Domžalam and Maribor. Training staff in the field of occupational medicine and asbestos diagnostics and raising awareness of management in enterprises where workers have been exposed to asbestos will also result in more early retirement and compensation requirements. There are only 6 medical professionals in Slovenia who are qualified to identify asbestos diseases. The reason for the disease is also stated above all in the Soča valley, although the same number of patients is found in Maribor and Ljubljana. On this occasion, let me say that we do not have professional diseases in Slovenia. We should have 100 others on one asbestos. In Slovenia, only 27 occupational diseases are recognised annually, although they should have a minimum of 500 in comparison with Europe. So far, thousands of 433 asbestos diseases have been registered, although it is assumed that the medical profession in Slovenia is 2,300 patients due to one of the asbestos diseases. Of the 400 disabled are registered, and 1,000 people are able to work, of course, in other jobs. The discussions on the parental committee made it clear that the government originally intended to write a law that would also include the exposure of the population to production facilities, especially in the Soča Valley, so that they could not determine the boundaries of the area. While the medical profession notes that 95% of all cancers on the radio are 5 kilometres from the factory in Anhove and only 5% across the rest of Slovenia. So far, only three cases of environmental mesothalioma have been discovered in the Soka Valley, while from 1964 to 2002, 365 occupational mesothaliomas have been discovered. These data mean that the inclusion of the population or the environmental aspect of asbestos exposure in the implementation of the law would have no significant financial implications. That is why right now we have the opportunity to join the Netherlands and equalise the rights of those with mesothalioma. Two years ago, a new range of asbestos patients was discovered in Slovenian railways in a company that is 100% owned by the Slovenian state. The destruction of cell zinc last year, when asbestos dust was uncontrolledly spread into the environment, showed that environmental awareness is low and that we are not aware of the risk of exposure and asbestos work, despite the 10-year legal ban on production and use. Your Honor! I propose to the Members and Members of the coalition, as well as to all other colleagues and colleagues, that they support the amendments of the opposition and that we adopt a jointly improved law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u82	My word, Mag. Capudra to present the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you very much. In Slovenia, production and transport of asbestos products with a special law was banned in October 1996, originally designed to assist Salonit Anhovo. Then the law was extended to solve the problems of asbestos patients and the problems of companies that produced and dealt with asbestos products. This law allowed the right to a pension under more favourable conditions, the right to a pension purchase and the cost of the state budget also of state compensation. However, although almost 10 years have passed since then, asbestos is still present in everyday life, mainly due to the widespread use of asbestos in the past. Asbestos fibres are present at various concentrations everywhere, mainly in urban environments. In Slovenia, most of the roofs were covered with asbestos cement saloons. In particular, the harmful effects of asbestos were expressed when bathing, milling, transport, production, maintenance, use, repair or disposal of asbestos-containing products or materials. Dangers cannot be avoided even with the application of all the prescribed measures, and we find new and new hotspots are emerging over and over again, even in places where we have not even thought about it. Today's law regulates the identification of occupational and other diseases and the reduction of life functions due to exposure to asbestos dust, the recognition of lump sum compensation for diseases and the provision of the right to a pension under more favourable conditions. As proposed, the application of the provisions of this Act shall be limited to persons who have been employed in companies that have been producing, using, storing, implanting or removing asbestos or asbestos products, but in jobs where asbestos has been exposed. This covers all those who have ever been exposed to the harmful effects of asbestos dust in their workplaces, which has not been regulated in the existing law. The right to a disability pension may be exercised by the beneficiaries of this law if they are found to have invalidity because of their occupational disease under this law and if they have completed at least 25 years of retirement and at least 50 years of age. The proposal sets out the maximum amounts of compensation for occupational diseases due to exposure to asbestos. It is proposed that the country covers at least 60% and that the company has a maximum of 40% of the compensation costs per disease. In our view, the proposal for a law that we are adopting has the right solutions, both for those who are sick and for those who are in a difficult position to do so. In Novi Slovenije - The Christian People's Party we are aware of the fact that employees are the most exposed in high-risk jobs and therefore we are convinced that additional funds should be allocated to them. Of course, if any of the recognised forms of disease are identified in them, this will be noted by an interdisciplinary group of experts appointed by the Minister responsible for health, as proposed by law. In Novi Slovenije - The Christian People's Party we are also convinced that the proposed solution is not ideal, but in our opinion it is good, at least in the light of comparable arrangements across Europe. The law does not reduce the level of rights, but extends them to all those who have ever been exposed to the harmful effects of asbestos dust in their workplaces and have been sick as a result. For this reason, we will also support the proposal for a law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Brenčič has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. After, unfortunately, the use of asbestos and the restructuring of the production into asbestos have been considerably delayed under the law, this is, of course, primarily the case with Salonit Anhovo, the proposed new law, as an amended conceptual approach to the existing law, establishes the identification of occupational diseases or the reduction of life functions due to exposure to asbestos and, on this basis, recognises a certain amount of compensation in the flat rate and the right to retirement under more favourable conditions. The proposal for this law, as we understand it in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, is a kind of pilot approach to the treatment of occupational diseases and thus the recognition of damages. The proposer drew up a proposal for a law in such a way that the interdisciplinary verification team, which will identify or assess the reduction of life functions, will take a key role in its implementation in practice, and on this basis identify the occupational disease and the inter-ministerial commission, which will conduct the procedures for agreement on payment in Article 6 of a certain amount of compensation between payers, this is between the State and the company liable, and, of course, recognise the right to a disability pension under more favourable conditions. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that, given that the former social property of companies using asbestos through property transformation should have completely changed and that many of these companies' legal successors today for reasons cannot be liable for compensation, the obligation for these compensations must be made by the State through the Compensation Fund. This, at least in cases where the State has already invested a great deal in the restructuring of asbestos production to non-community, as well as in compensation for the affected workers and their more favourable retirement, would not be fair. We therefore support the solutions that the Committee amends Article 10 of the bill so that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has to lay down the criteria and conditions that will be the basis for the reduction or exemption of all payments by the undertakings of the debtors. The Group supports the proposal for a law which, as a conceptual approach, has established rights only for directly exposed employees in companies and also service activities using asbestos on the basis of a identified occupational disease, which is a pilot approach and as such a suitable basis for resolving such issues also in other cases. Of course, the issue of justice, non-treatment, directly in the environment where asbestos was used, the exposed population is similar to that of employees suffering from the same health impairment. We believe that this issue needs to be dealt with in a fine way on the basis of a different approach, because, in so far as we would solve this issue in this law, as some Members or Members of the Group would like or propose, some type of dominoes would be established for a whole range of similar cases and the state, as well as a number of economic operators would be in a position to carry out such an approach when the obligations of the law could not be implemented. While it is easy to promise or offer people pleasant things for them, nothing else could be done in previous mandates when the existing law was passed and changed. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support, but does not support, the proposed amendments of individual parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Friend has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! It is not pleasant to listen to all colleagues who explain, but it is not only my signature on the amendments that I want to stress at the outset. The Group also agrees with all the amendments, but there was no time to gain the consent of all, so I signed myself. The bill before you is worse than the law in force so far, which has ceased to apply in the current year, and even though we are on the Committee on the Economy, it is ridiculous to hear, at the end of 2003 and at the beginning of 2004 we have reached a full consensus that this law should be extended in 2005, we have not been able to do so now. And there was a marriage gap, even more, by rebalancing the resources that remained, and yet we forget that it is the fault of the sick and the polluted environment throughout Slovenia. It's not the workers' fault and it's not the families who had their homes near these factories, it's simply the country's fault. And people are dying, and we're moving in here with some pilot projects, talking about how dominoes are actually going to be set up, and how there's going to be more of these tomorrow. It is sad, and it is also necessary to stress the fact that the State of Slovenia has done nothing, almost nothing to make use of international funds, that Italy received grants last year for EUR 300 million, and not least, that we recall the European Parliament when it was demolished by soap in the day because it had built-in insulation materials in the building. Of course, it is not just a manufacturing problem, the problem is also in the everyday environment, we have roof coverings, we have water supply, and the actual latent period of this disease is very large, long, and it will only show up in the next period when this disease experiences its true dimension. It is so much more unreasonable that, in essence, the amendments proposed by the opposition, driven by non-chalant, were not seriously discussed at all, except by the opposition, the arguments were heard. However, that the law is good, I find it hard to believe, because the positioning parties have prepared their amendments for almost all articles of government law. Please, how can we talk about good marriage, but if this same law has been amended in almost all articles by the proposer? Funny, just funny. And if we are talking about what dimensions this disease will have tomorrow, we must say that until today you have not taken the profession into account, the profession itself has said this on its own working body, perhaps the President has deliberately silenced it, but this has been said that the profession has so far not been taken into account. We have also deprived the sick of their right to participate in the identification and diagnosis of their disease, according to their legal representative. We took away their right to inform them in fact. And what's most controversial is that we've actually sharpened their retirement rights, we've increased our working time, and whoever we're going to set up disability tomorrow, he's going to be able to go to the employment facility, where he's actually going to land as an unemployed person in the morning, because the work organisation won't be able to guarantee him a clean environment. We did this with this bill, so no one goes into these details. The former law was much better than the present law. And the environmental aspect, which is not to the very least taken into account, we simply excluded it, we have heard it a little earlier than the proposer. The environmental aspect is now gone, and we do not want to know who lives next to the asbestos factory, but there were representatives at this meeting at the labor body, who in fact have their own apartment buildings directly in the presence of the so-called asbestos giants. Therefore, I think it is only right that we should think together once more about this because it is not only a maritime problem, it is an all-Slovenian problem to read these amendments carefully and of course support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor and invite Vice President Magi. Klavoro to present DeSUS's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u89	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In our Group of Members, we believe that it is certainly necessary to adopt a law regulating the rights of patients with asbestos. We are aware that health is the most important value of life. Therefore, we have no doubt in our Group of Members that all asbestos exposed should be provided with social security, better, healthier environment, and, last but not least, adequate compensation for all beneficiaries. However, the proposal of the law that we now have to deal with these matters does not sufficiently address and does not provide adequate legal protection. We believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken too little account of the comments and opinions of individual stakeholders when preparing the proposal, and that there has been insufficient cooperation between the law-makers themselves and those directly affected by such a law, namely, injured persons or patients who have suffered from asbestos exposure. The amendments tabled almost all articles of the proposal also point to such insufficient cooperation. At the time of admission to the parliamentary procedure, the proposal contained 17 articles, of which 15 were amended. All of this shows that it was a disability proposal which must certainly be remedied. The DeSUS Group has always drawn attention to certain dilemmas that are still open from the introduction of the bill. In particular, this is a problem of the unequal position of patients with asbestos. Members of our group estimate that human health was not only affected by working with asbestos, but also by other forms of exposure to this deadly thing. That is why it seems unfair to think that the proposal focuses only on occupational diseases and ignores all other people who have not come into contact with asbestos directly in the factories themselves, but have also been exposed to asbestos and the result is their illness and death. It is mainly for people who have been exposed to asbestos in their living or working environment. Their suffering and losses are the same. The proposed law does not, however, grant them the same rights as regards the right to compensation and pension under more favourable conditions. The fact is that this disease has not yet appeared in its entire expansion and that the latent period is great, so this disease will not manifest itself in all its cruelty until after a decade or two. Due to the mortality associated with this disease, it is also not possible to complete settlement procedures in certain cases. Therefore, in our DeSUS Group, it would be fair to determine the right to compensation in favour of those affected heirs of the deceased, whose death was the result of exposure to asbestos, of course, provided that they have submitted a claim for compensation. Members of our group also believe that it is necessary to bind the right to early retirement exclusively to the disease found and not only to occupational disease due to asbestos. We are aware that in this case it is financial resources and we understand the financial distress of the country, but we must not overlook the fact that the disease is also the fault of the country, especially those who have not been employed in these factories and have not been aware of anything, live or work in a dangerous environment. In our parliamentary group, we believe that the solutions now offered by the amended bill will not be able to achieve an equal position for all asbestos-sick patients, and this shows the inadequacy of the proposal as part of the comprehensive system of legal treatment and the resolution of the so-called asbestos problem. In view of the above, honourable Members and Members, I call, as a Member of Parliament, as a Member from Posoča, and above all a doctor who has not worked for many years, but has seen many cases, very tragic cases of this disease, to reconsider this issue even before they decide to take steps that may prove to be wrong, if not tragic. In DeSUS, we are convinced that such a complementary proposal, when we have it before us, is by no means appropriate. Therefore, we invite you, regardless of customer affiliation and irrespective of opposition or positional preferences, to consider the arrangements offered to us by the amendments tabled, since these are the ones that deal more appropriately and fairly with the problem. In our DeSUS Group, we will also support all of these dilemmas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I call on the Member of the Hungarian National Community, Mrs Pozsonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I support amendments to the asbestos law and will also support all the amendments tabled. I believe that it is fair and necessary that, as an asbestos disease, not only occupational disease but also other diseases that have been caused by persons who have either lived or worked near factories where they have produced or stored asbestos products and are due to the harmful functioning of asbestos fibres. In addition to those who have been exposed to asbestos at work, I believe they have the right to compensation and the right to retirement under more favourable conditions, including those who have been diagnosed with a occupational disease under this law, or to be found or other diseases resulting from asbestos exposure. However, compensation under this law should be granted to all who have become sick due to exposure to asbestos. They say that part of the burden of compensation in judicial proceedings is borne by the State. The financial implications of this law are understandable and acceptable, for the value of life that is threatened in the world and unrepeatable and is measurable with money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mitja Ljubeljska, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u93	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Director, Dear Fellows and Fellows! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposal for a law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work because the system-wide, comprehensive, consistent, experienced and socially responsible regulation of asbestos issues. Both from the point of view of the victims, the companies and the state, as well as from the foreseeable and estimated needs and requirements of the injured and the budgetary capacity. The current law on the prohibition of the production and transport of asbestos products laid down in particular the immediate cessation of the production of asbestos cement products and partly addressed the very complex asbestos problem and the consequences of working with asbestos, since it mainly addressed the restructuring of production and partly ensured the social and health safety of employees and asbestos patients. The proposed law is based on good practice that has been established in EU countries and has good or even better solutions to this practice, both for persons and for those who suffer from asbestos as well as for economic societies. It sets out in its terms very clearly the occupational diseases and the killings to be determined, the dose and the payment of lump sum compensation and the right to a disability pension under more favourable conditions. An interdisciplinary group of top-level experts will carry out verification of occupational disease due to asbestos exposure and assessment of life-loss. The procedures for determining and communicating compensation and the recognition of the right to a disability pension under more favourable conditions will be carried out by the Interdepartmental Commission. The draft law also sets out the maximum amounts of compensation. The State will cover 60% of the amount and 40% of the company in which the applicant or the injured person was employed. However, the Interdepartmental Commission may decide that the State shall cover a large part of the compensation or in full if there is no longer a legal successor to the company, or if the payment of the compensation would substantially jeopardise the business or even the existence of an economic company. The Interdepartmental Commission shall determine whether the conditions for the right to a disability pension are met under more favourable conditions and shall submit to the SPIZ a request for the issue of a decision and a dose of a disability pension, which shall then be paid and coordinated by the institution in the same way as other pensions. The draft law also provides that the costs of medical examination of an authorised doctor shall be borne by the State budget. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has been actively involved in the substantive drafting of the law, both with asbestos patient unions, asbestos society, with representatives of companies, as well as with the Government's lawmaker. There has been a lot of reflection and discussion in our parliamentary group on how to include the surrounding population in the law, but this has not been justified because there are no complex professional analyses or professional studies, nor have there been any professional criteria on the distance from the asbestos field of production, nor on these grounds the estimated potential number of patients with asbestos diseases over the coming years and decades. It will certainly be possible to supplement this law in this direction in the future, but only on the basis of high-quality professional backgrounds and realistic assessments. In our parliamentary group, we believe that such a system law as is proposed is the appropriate legal basis for long-term resolution of asbestos problems, as well as the right legal basis for the implementation of dedicated budgetary spending. For all these reasons, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will also support the proposed law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, we are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 28.2.2006. Here you go, Mr. Bevk. Can I help you? Procedural question?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u95	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. If the debate on the first amendment has begun.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u96	I haven't started it yet, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u97	Then I apply to the first amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u98	Okay. In view of what I have said, we are moving on to a debate on amendments to individual articles. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the members of the Group of Social Democrats and the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Who wants a word? Please. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. First of all, I have a comment on how the material or review of the amendments to the amended law has been prepared. The leadership of the National Assembly, as a footnote to Article 1, stated that if the first amendment to Article 1 was not accepted, then the amendments to Articles 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12 and 16 were irrelevant. I do not think that this is true and, in fact, it also requires a slightly more precise explanation of the leadership of the national assembly or the legislative and legal service, because on the parental committee we had the exact same amendments as they were now tabled, and we defined ourselves to each amendment separately, and we are already at the first amendment, which unfortunately was not voted on at the time, that then everyone else is irrelevant. Although we have listened to the amendments from our parliamentary group, from the Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and a colleague of Friends from the National Party, and we have, because at least some amendments may have been listened to by the coalition, broken up and adapted these amendments, but we believe that this intervention by the leadership of the National Assembly or the services that advised how to prepare this review of the amendments was inappropriate and was not in line with the practice of the home committee. Otherwise, we listened to and followed the comments of the social partners and the medical profession, the asbestos patient union of Slovenia, the asbestos society, the Slovenian Economic Chamber of Commerce, the companies where asbestos was used in production and, in particular, the medical profession or the clinical institute of medicine at the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana, and we also followed the comments of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, in the first concept, the government intended to include the so-called environmental aspect of asbestos disease in the law. Here I have the Government's material from 23 December 2004, where it is clearly stated what are the guidelines for the drafting of this law and where it says [[Quote]] : "The group of beneficiaries of compensation are all potential exhibitors, employees or former employees in the production process or service services who have come in contact, directly or indirectly, with asbestos powder as well as residents due to," I stress, "environmental exposure to asbestos by diagnosis of asbestos disease to mesothalia." That's how December 2004 rules. And when there was no breach of this law in the middle of last year, I am to the Minister of Mag. He also posed a question to the trifle. In answer to this question, he explained very precisely how the government is preparing this law, and at that time he considered it reasonable to include this environmental aspect in the law. And he replied, "This includes the residents, although they were not employed by the employer himself, because we know that the impact has sometimes gone beyond the courtyards and will be defined also in some sense by the radios where these effects occurred." I do not know why the government changed its mind towards the end of the year and did not include this aspect in the law, because we have clearly proved that this would not be a problem due to the financial consequences. I mentioned earlier how many environmental mesothaliomas have been found in the Soča Valley and how many of these professional cancers have actually been found. Therefore, the government could easily include this in its basic law. With these amendments, we also give coalition Members and Members the opportunity to correct this mistake and thus improve this law together. After all, even the Netherlands, a member of the European Union, is now on this path and will change its law in this direction so that they can equalise both occupational diseases and those who have suffered from environmental exposure. I therefore ask you to support the amendment to Article 1 so that all other articles will then be taken into account in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u100	Mrs Breda Pečan, you have made your statement, but allow me to give the floor to Mr Brančič, the Chairman of the Home Committee, to explain this in the light of Mr Bekko's question raised regarding these amendments or remarks to Article 1. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me first explain the purpose of the professional services when they were preparing the review of the amendments and also on the basis of the substantive traceability of the amendments, they found that the amendments were interconnected and therefore mutually exclusive. I'd like to explain the following. The first amendment is very specifically linked to the first article, which was also based on the report of the parent labour body to amend the concept of the law, which follows from Article 1 onward. Something similar happened on the parent’s working body. However, since the amendments of individual applicants on the working body were slightly different from each other, it was very difficult for me, as chairman, to assess that all these amendments were irrelevant when we adopted the first amendment to Article 1, sent by colleagues Sam Bevk and Mrs Pecanova. I therefore considered it most appropriate that all amendments, where it was possible to determine in any way the lack of non-self-sustainable traceability, should be discussed and decided, and some also appeared on the home committee irrelevant. This time, however, the formal amendments of the two parliamentary groups and Mr Happy Friends are completely one. And the substantive traceability is completely different from that of the parent's working body. and by no means should the practice which I, of course, set out in the context of the treatment of this law on the homework body be identified by proceeding on the prey. That's it. Of course, I could have acted differently there as chairman, and I was judging the substantive linkage in a somewhat more resilient way. I also considered that, given the large number of auditors and the number of candidates invited to the meeting, the debate and decision on the subjectivity of all the amendments and the articles should take place in accordance with the desire to achieve the best results. In such a way that it is not justified and also procedurally impossible to link the purpose of the procedure on the home working body to the plenary decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I have also been informed, on a transitional basis, that the legislative and legal commission has also been of the same opinion on what Mr Brenčič has just said. Mrs. Breda Pecan, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw attention in particular to this - even if we follow the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the link between the amendments and the first amendment, with the amendment to Article 1, but I would like to point out that the second amendment, which is the amendment to Article 2, paragraph 1, is not related in any way to the amendment to Article 1, because it is a purely second group of people. This is a specific case, so I would like to comment on what this is all about. In this second amendment, it is said to be an amendment to the first paragraph of Article 2, namely, for people who worked with an employer who dealt with the processing and incorporation of asbestos into individual products, but did not work in a workplace where asbestos or asbestos products were worked, but in a direct environment within factory walls, if we can say so. Here I would like to recall, for example, the late Secretary-General of the Christian Democrats, the predecessor of New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party, who died behind the mesothelioma and never worked in a job where asbestos was used, but worked in the environment of the factory that worked with asbestos. That was in Salonit Anhovo. Don't mind me, but I had to say this because I find it insufferable that even the heirs of this gentleman, who was a unique man, could simply close your eyes to this fact. And so I'm saying the second amendment has nothing to do with the first amendment. And let's please have the law enforcement check it again. The second thing I'd like to warn you about at the first amendment is this. We do not know how many people are actually sick or sick because of asbestos exposure, but they have never and will not work in the environment, in the factory, in the environment of companies that in any way use asbestos or work with today, this moment mainly with materials that contain asbestos and become waste when removing coatings from asbestos, for example in individual public buildings where asbestos is to be removed sooner or later. We also have them at the Clinical Center in some operating rooms. I'd like to point that out, and sooner or later it'll have to be removed. Those working in these operating halls have been exposed to asbestos fiber for decades. I'd like to remind you of the circus they have in France at this time because of the dismantling of a huge military ship, I don't remember whether it's an aircraft carrier or what it is that can't be cut to the east because they found that it would export dangerous waste, which is asbestos to them. And this ship is thick-covered in its interior with asbestos trimmings. So I would like to point out that those people who worked on this ship were exposed to asbestos fibres because they were constantly released into the atmosphere and they were not in a factory that produced asbestos products or were not in a construction company that removed asbestos materials. No, no, no. They were just working in an environment where asbestos is. Our officers and our customs officers have been working and still working in this environment today because it's still a whole species, a whole bunch of cars still have asbestos brake linings. And where there's a lot of blocking, asbestos fibers are released into the atmosphere, at intersections, at customs crossings, and everywhere else. These people even inhaled asbestos fibers in their professional life. And when they come to a doctor with lung problems, often because it is not a doctor who is treated in an environment where he could expect any type of asbestososis, it is a serious problem that many patients with asbestosis do not even know that they have asbestososis, nor their doctors do, because they do not know the characteristic clinical picture of asbestososis. And for this reason, I think it would be fair and right to include in this law also those people who did not directly work with asbestos and who did not work in factories or companies that worked in one way or another with asbestos. So, I'd say civilian people, people who didn't have a proven direct contact with this. Another example would be that we listened to at one of the seminars when dealing with or familiarizing with the consequences of asbestos exposure. He was a 40-year-old machine engineer who got sick after mesothelioma and died. Before that, they were looking for reasons why mesothelioma had ever occurred. They found that he worked for 2 months in the autumn ironworks to remove asbestos linings in a furnace. After much research and research, asbestos fibers in his lungs were found to have resulted in mesothelioma. According to this law, if this man had lived today and had been diagnosed with asbestos fiber, he would have had no right to compensation or to early retirement. Because this country, which has allowed him much longer, and not to tell me that this country is another country, is not true, we are heirs to the entire wide area of rights and obligations that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has had, as a country of Slovenia, are heirs to these rights and obligations. If the country of Yugoslavia has made a mistake and much earlier than we have been banned from using and trading, imports and so on asbestos and products containing asbestos fibres, then we have eliminated this error, or only in 1996, but the legacy of the country's guilt, the responsibility of this country for all of the asbestos phenomena we have in Slovenia remains. And for this reason, as I will say, a country that gives something to justice and honesty, we must also undo these injustices or the consequences of these mistakes that have been made in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Testen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! I'm going to start with amendments regarding the locals, because I think most of the amendments written refer to the recognition of the disease to the nationals as well. At the outset, I must point out that I have also repeatedly stressed in the coordinations we had in the coalition that the locals are also a problem and that this law must also try to resolve the problem of the peoples. I will vote for these amendments - the others seem less important to me - which relate to the recognition of the disease to the countries as well. But I will vote because, given that I have been in Anhove for a long time, I know this situation well. Because of this picture, which some of you have had the opportunity to see, there is nothing to be gained from it, but it may be that little visible actual situation in the environment in which we worked or worked - personally I was not so strongly exposed - which was even worse. I would like to inform you of the contents of a letter from an Anhoveg writing to me, namely that between 2001 and 2005, in the village of Anhovo, which is in fact almost the middle of the former company Salonit Anhovo, four people who have never worked in Anhove have died. These were 76, 68, 57 and 54 years old. This is a fairly eloquent example for relatively young people to die in a village with a hundred people as a result of asbestosism, such as the worst forms of cancer. So this is a very clear and very strong argument for me. However, I would like to say something else because there is a conceptual difference between the applicants and the union and some others. I agree that there is a conceptual difference, given that there is a disability pension in this law, it is said to be a big conceptual difference, but it does not bother me. I think it is positive, however, that the law covers everyone who has worked with asbestos, says, even in various other construction companies, or all those who have been in contact with asbestos through their jobs. Well, maybe I could say a few more words about the existing law. The reasons for the amendment's motions, I do not think, are entirely correct, as regards the solutions offered by the existing law. Although the existing law contained in Article 1 of the 1998 Act, that, to compensation and to social assistance, the social resolution of problems was also justified by the country, but that same law did not divide those rights in the other articles, so that this right was very poorly regulated for the people of the country, I will say. I believe that this law, which the government has proposed, will be upgraded by these amendments, which will also include national ones, significantly better than the existing law, so that I will support all these amendments, and I do not think that it is important for those amendments that speak of having one representative of the workers, even though in principle they can, I would not object to it, but I think that this is a professional matter. So I won't be calling back later. My view is that, in any case, the locals should be included in the law, as is often the case in certain environments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues. One sentence first. Unfortunately, it is only now that we have started to talk about the asbestos law, the asbestos law, the measures that are needed. In any case, we will talk another time or the craftsmen will also talk about other past surface environmental and other conditions under which people worked. I suggest that we forget and overlook the abbreviations written in capital letters, which is the applicant of any amendment, to our colleagues and colleagues. I propose that we take into account the fact that it is by all the investors of the amendments, and I also hope that by the drafter of the basic law, to remedy the situation as it is, to improve the situation and to improve the law. Almost everyone, if not all the reasons already defined in the amendments that are before us are legitimate reasons, I am convinced of this also because these amendments and this law have been prepared and also co-formed mainly by people living in places where asbestos and the consequences have not already begun to appear. Because it was the people who spoke to the patients, who were affected, who were confronted, saw and experienced the possible consequences of long-term work, and not least, all the amendments and content were based on verified, I am sure, verified information. Perhaps it would be good for the end to say that we look on the other side, for after all, God forbid, someone is helped by all our arguments, all the misunderstandings in this national assembly, if this man is no longer present, because he died because of a disease caused by long-term work in the workplace or in some other workplace where he was connected, too attached to asbestos and as a result of working with this asbestos, of course, he was sick and died of illness unfortunately. It won't help anyone who isn't here anymore. Therefore, let's be fair, we get honest, we are convinced of the well-intention of the amendment's proponents and the joint improvement of the proposed law, which will also be a basis and a warning for later, because there are other activities in Slovenia, the consequences of which will show up and there is no need to be afraid, not to avoid, and it will be inevitable someday.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I am also joining all those who wish to have an additional explanation of the legislative and legal service in the footnote to the amendment to Article 1, which leads us to the fact that, of course, the adoption or non-admission of this amendment then has a fatal impact on the continued adoption of the amendments to Article 2. I am also of the opinion that it is not a matter of connection, such a substantive link to the amendments, that, of course, the non-voting of the first amendment would mean, at the same time, a lack of determination on all in the view of the footnote to the related amendments. Of course I'd like to focus on the content myself. The decisions we make here today will have very important consequences, not only on individuals, but for the first time certainly on the attitude of Slovenes and Slovenes to such issues as those on the one hand of individuals suffering from exposure to the disease, and on the other hand, let's say economic operators involved in this and, let's say, countries that would take on certain obligations in this way. Of course, before we decide on these amendments, we need to have as much information on the table as possible so that we can make the right decision. I have not yet heard, either by the proposaler or by the panellists, that someone would quote a case study carried out within the framework of the European Environment Agency, bearing the title of the Late Lesson from Early Disputes, precautionary principle 1896 2000. Here we have based on a study of cases of late lessons mentioned in the 12 cases. And at point 5, you will also find a chapter of asbestos. This is such a large study, which would certainly be very instructive if the applicant knew her very carefully, but at the same time each of us when we decide to or against an amendment. In the preface to this study, the Environment Agency points out that correct decision-making on such important issues is very important, leading to measures to improve the quality of decision-making. This can be traced back to a wide variety of experiences. And asbestos is an experience of late learning from early digestion. Why early warning? For the first warnings about asbestos have been issued since 1895, that is, at the end of the 19th century. And when we read asbestos-related texts, we can see different experiences that can be followed on different occasions in different countries based on different studies. Why is this so important? The foreword, therefore, makes it clear in the introduction that, based on studies of late lessons, a logical question arises, why we have not considered early warnings for so long, not loud and familiar warnings. Today, again, we point out that decisions could again be followed by warnings that have a long beard for more than a century. The amendment to Article 1 describes exactly the fact that the beneficiary should be in the content of this Act. There's been a lot of things going on here today. Is it just occupational diseases arising from a working relationship or is it possible to include others who have been exposed to asbestos in one way or another? One example would be given from this study. This study shows that on May 20, 2000, the family of a retired British doctor received compensation for the death of a doctor at the age of 47 for asbestos cancer, mesothalioma. What was the cause of this disease? The disease caused blue asbestos dust from damaged tubing in the connecting tunnels of the London hospital, which is listed between 1966 and 1973 four [[?]] worked as an intern for years. So, as an intern, he was exposed, unknowingly, to a damaged tubing, and later, at the age of 47, he died, proven, due to the effect of asbestos. If we look at the figures that continue here in this fifth chapter of this study, it is estimated that in the next 35 years around 250,000 new cases of mesothelioma will occur in the European Union, which is usually fatal in one year. Since asbestos also causes lung cancer, there will be more deaths, between 250,000 and 400,000 included in cases of asbestososis, which is the first disease to be diagnosed with asbestos exposure. These are of course very important facts, which, of course, need to be carefully considered when we talk about these amendments below. I would like to draw attention here to the following fact, because maybe we understand it better if we say it in numbers. If the value, of course, could not be measured financially, so if the value of life were estimated at £1 million, as is usually the case in transport studies, the costs would be estimated at €400,000 in European asbestos cancer cases over the next 5 decades, €400 billion. Of course, the cost of human suffering is not calculated. However, it is very important when we talk about whether we are talking only about occupational diseases due to asbestos work or whether we will also include environmental categories, but the following is true. Safe removal of asbestos from buildings at the end of their lifetime will cost billions more. It is very important how we will do this, because early measures to reduce asbestos exposure would save a lot of these costs. I asked the Minister of the Environment in this mandate on the topic of removal of roof coverings and in the introduction to the opinion of the parliamentary group, I stated that in Slovenia there are still a third of buildings covered with coverings containing solidly bound asbestos, asbestos water pipes are over 100 kilometers, many buildings, although there is no data, but there is isolation, dirt or soil from materials of weak asbestos. Of course, it is very important how these decisions, which will be adopted today, will affect other decisions to minimise the damage, of course, due to the law we are about to adopt today. This study clearly discusses the link between economic effects that can only be assessed from an entrepreneurial perspective or from a broader cost perspective, including environmental problems, which also include health problems that require, of course, additional or certain compensations. In doing so, I would like to draw your attention once again to what was also the main criticism of the LDS Club. It is that the dialogue of all those who should be involved when we decide today on the text of the law has been poorly conducted. We are convinced that, of course, the texts, so the amendments, would be significantly smaller if we did not find today that this dialogue, of course, was minimised, that, of course, those who had something to say could be very few or nothing. Of course, this story in this report by the European Environment Agency is very important, because in the conclusions that are not addressed, the stories for asbestos are messages and, of course, these messages are very important. I'd just like to say, under point 3, I'd like to turn to one message. The preventive and compensatory legislation, which was enacted in the UK, most of the studies were made for the UK, were not sufficiently implemented in 1931-1932 and sanctions were negligible. This sample is repeated throughout the history of asbestos use. And we are doing this today, so what pattern will we take into account when we address this issue today? And if we now link all the warnings that we have here today, if we sum up just one example, that someone who interned in one of the buildings where a segment of a structure was damaged that was built from materials that included asbestos and that caused death decades later, then we have to ask ourselves today whether we Members will be deaf to ears when there are practical such specific problems. Are we going to be deaf to our ears when we evaluate statistics on seeing that it's 95%, that's what Comrade Bevk said in the presentation very clearly, 95% of the disease comes from a direct working relationship with asbestos, the rest is somehow estimated to be conditioned by exposure somewhere in the environment. Today, we do not know which exposure or who will be exposed to any influence. However, it seems important to me that we do not make a difference here, but that the difference between one who has been exposed professionally, if I may say so, in the context of the working relationship or those who have been exposed to it does not really know. I would have warned you about that. It's not just about determining or giving rights. We wrote in Articles 8, 9 and 10 how this is regulated. And there must be a proven causal link between asbestos exposure and disease, which is why the law introduces a so-called interdisciplinary group that will, in the event of a case, identify this causal link. So, on what grounds is there this fear? I don't think so. At the same time, we are sending a message that we will separate two types of patients with whom we recognise rights and we do not recognize those rights to others. Of course, there can be a reason and an obvious reason why the previous governments have not arranged all of this. I quote here once again very, I think, a very happy address for this study of Late Lessons from Early Warming. Late lessons. For more than a century, this story of asbestos is going on, and the first studies on the negative effect on asbestos health from 1895 until now, 2006. Even today we will not save everything, but we can take a step forward, we can take a step forward in order to ensure that all those exposed to asbestos, who will also be sick, are guaranteed equal treatment. It seems to me that this is right for these people, because disease itself is a very large handicap or tragedy for each individual and for his closest or for society as a whole. And if you read this study here you will see very well that the economic effects, for example, only the performance of asbestos-based products are substantially minimised if we take these environmental impacts into account. Of course, the question is during which period some information was available. Today, in 2006, we have a range of information, much more information than we had 10 years ago. And so it seems fair to me that this information, we have more. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr Bajc will have your word, I think the chairman will give it to you in any case if you want to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u110	I agree with you, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would like to support what has been presented here today in the opening presentation, those who propose these amendments. It is by adopting whether by rejecting the amendment to Article 1 to make a substantial difference in the concept of this Act. And it is my opinion that it must be guided that the rights under this law should be directed to all those who have been exposed to asbestos and who have consequently been proven sick and have certain consequences in their lives and lives around them. That is why I will also support these amendments, which have an integrated concept and try to further argue them with the amendments that will follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Germich. While we are discussing Article 1, as you can see, your debate also gives me the impression that these articles are really quite interlinked. For the debate is extremely broad and I cannot stop the debate in order to be just a decision whether it is a professional disease or all the others. However, since a question has been raised by two or three discussers concerning the footnote to Article 1 and although Mr Brenčič has already explained this and I myself have told you that I have been informed that the legislative and legal service is the same opinion, I will nevertheless ask the legislative and legal service to deliver its oral opinion in accordance with Article 66 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly before the vote. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Personally, I would like to draw attention to all the promises made by the government after a period of renewal of the law in 2005. Now we know that there has been a legal void in this area, and then the government representative's promise has been made to solve this issue in a comprehensive manner, by means of a law that will solve this whole issue and also ensure that the consequences caused by asbestos across the space are resolved. I must stress that this is not happening today. We have a law that excludes the environmental aspect and in fact such a law has also supported the mother's working body, nicely said, by non-chalant rejection of all the other amendments. Today's debate could also be shorter if we constructively address those amendments proposed by the Social Democrats or our party. I believe that a very dirty work has been done for the government on the parent's working body. The same law writers exclude this environmental aspect and place people in two categories. The one who lived next to the endangered area and the one who worked. They limit the right only to those who worked directly, that's absurd. Both of you will suffer from asbestososis and both of you will die for this disease. Disability - look, that's all I want to remind you of. When we find disability in a person, it is without adequate legal protection, what absurdities we have caused to the patient, when we find out in the workplace that we cannot provide him with an adequate clean environment, we will put him on the labour market, he will enjoy certain rights there, and then he will land on the unemployed file and will be sentenced to a tragic end of his life without any contributions or assistance. I think you know what that means. In depriving him of the right to participate in the procedure when this disease is identified, it is said in the diagnostic process, even with these amendments that we wanted to correct this injustice and even took away the right of an appropriate legal representative. The law, of course, also violates the rights already acquired, when we look at the previous law and it squanders the resources that we have, say, a good example was the budget rebalancing, even the military, you have taken the items and you have dedicated the army. Not to mention the wide environmental impact, because we do not know how to replace the relevant critiques, water connections and so on. Another example in this area is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia provides a good example of essentially favourable loans for eco-heating households. So why can't we do something here as well, and give favourable credit to those households that would choose to replace such a dangerous roof cover with ecologically friendly cover. We have no intention of doing that, nor do we want to do that. And I would like to remind you again, Minister, if you can answer me why the Republic of Slovenia has not applied for grants from the European Community fund, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudi Veršnik has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I have a feeling that we opened Pandora's box with a proposal for a law on the abolition of asbestos. That this is indeed confirmed by a number of amendments, both on the Labour Committee and today in Parliament itself. The original purpose of the rescue of the sick in Anhove and the restructuring of our largest asbestos factory, Salonit Anhovo, has extended this law to all asbestos producers by law, and with today's amendments, we adapt the law to European practice and adapt it to domestic circumstances. During the coordination, there were attempts at a large extension, not only to the surrounding area, but purely to new areas of work and handling of this dangerous substance. It's hard to imagine how we would look at a five-mile radius around the factory if we knew that the meteorology was working in its own way, somewhere that area was 2 kilometers, a couple of 100 meters, and somewhere could be 10 kilometers, depending on weather events in that area. That is why it is difficult to say in our mind what is the right width or the right environment, and I say that we have very little data for a correct decision. And that's the data on which we could decide how to extend this space to what extent. I am sure that in life almost all of us who are here today have dealt with asbestos or roof or brake linings, warm floors, pipes, similar products intended for wide consumption. Even in my community, many of these asbestos pipes are still installed, even though the congregation is trying to replace them with less dangerous alkaten tubes. The law is useful both for those who have become sick of the consequences of asbestos, asbestos action and for those companies who have found themselves in this situation. Discontinuation of production, cessation of production and aid to workers. In coordinating this law, a group of employers made a very uniform and reasoned statement requiring the State to assume all obligations and not in the 60 40 ratio as set out in the draft law. It will be a great responsibility on the Interdepartmental Commission, which will determine, on the basis of applications, the eligibility of compensation or invalidity pension and its height. The law, I say, is not ideal, but Europe is comparable and better than the original. The subject matter dealt with in this law is also so unpredictable that I am confident that the law will have to adapt to time and situation. I therefore believe that the proposed law is entirely appropriate for adoption. Let me stress that in this law, Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have been aligned with individual stakeholders, both employers and asbestos patients, with some degree of consensus, but not completely. We must be aware of the need to find an appropriate relationship between the obligations undertaken by the State and the responsibility of the undertakings and, on the other hand, the rights of the victims who have become sick of the disease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members! I'll just keep going where my predecessor ended up. I also think that this law does not aim to raise political points, because on the one hand it is a matter of great suffering for those who have become ill, either for asbestos-related cancer or otherwise, and on the other hand, for any case, the limited possibilities of our country. And like my predecessor said, there's almost no Slovenian who wouldn't meet asbestos in any way. Of course, some are much more, those who worked in this factory, as well as those who live in the immediate vicinity of this factory, where it was produced, and all the others through different forms. I remember, as a child, helping to cut the asbestos plates. With us in northeastern Slovenia, almost all economic buildings were covered in asbestos panels in those days. This was because they were easy to cover, they were easy and relatively cheap. And this criticism was actually predominant. Water systems were also being built, most likely for the same reasons. And here today to demand and speak, don't be deaf, but let's change all of this, change all of this, it's easy -- otherwise you can say it as an opposition, but that's not possible. That's not possible because the cost of this is too great. But it is true that it is necessary to work on this and it is necessary to replace these criticisms slowly, allowing people, over a period of time, to get rid of it, and that we will have a huge problem where all these materials are stored; you know what the problems are with waste in Slovenia at this point. While the replacement of all water pipes, when there is no water supply everywhere on the one hand, is also, of course, impossible to finance from the point of view of municipal budgets and the state budget. But what I'm telling you is that a few years ago, a few years ago, in the Ormož Congregation, we had to do an analysis of the appearance of asbestos fibres in the water, which is said to be in drinking water, because we have many kilometers of these asbestos pipes. They were doing research in Ingostadt, Germany. The finding was that where the plumbing works well, where there are no fractures and the like, these fibres are not in the water because they are simply tubes from the inside with limestone coated and there are no such fibres. But of course, the problem is that whenever there is damage, when these pipes need to be reassembled together, glued together, I don't know how to do it, but whenever there is damage, then it occurs in the water for a few moments, and if those who do it are careful enough, we can avoid it. Many of these and similar things have been done in the past because of progress, and today we could be spreading the debate here, and I do not know which areas. Even more so, because I am involved in agriculture, I know what has been done in the agricultural field, and we know this, for example, that Europe would not have survived if we had not invented DDT in a period of time. What was the result of this, all those who have studied and later encountered this and who are still facing the remains of atrazine in the earth, we know that it is not possible to get them out of the earth, but that it will take 10, 20, 30 years for these funds to actually be decommissioned on some biological path itself. And of course we could make great stories out of this, on the one hand we have made progress in providing some material bases, on the other hand for a lot of what we know today, and we can read some more fat studies if we once knew that, decisions would probably be different. As far as this law is concerned to conclude, the law is actually comparable to the solutions in other European countries, even having a wider scope of rights. Asbestos patients or patients who suffer from asbestososis have special rights under this law, and everyone else may, in the framework of, at least so stated, a well-managed health system and within the framework of well- guaranteed health rights also exercise the right to treatment, the right to compensation, although it is clear that no compensation, no money can restore lost health. At this point, the possibilities are such, but it is true that this government has taken the responsibility to make the marriage possible in the future to be upgraded, but at this point, whatever it may sound, we can all cover together with as long a blanket as it is, even a ruling coalition would be much better if this law could be extended to virtually all Slovenes, but we are aware that this is not possible at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The law we adopt replaces the relevant law now in force in 1996. It is positive that, contrary to the law currently in force, the law defines as beneficiaries all those who have ever, or anywhere, worked with asbestos or asbestos products, but it seems logical to me, and I welcome in this law that the beneficiaries are those who have been proven to have been affected by asbestos. The amendment to Article 1 does not only include the locals of the Anhove region as we hear it in these circles, but if we understand it as we speak now, it includes the area of all Slovenia and the area of the area is virtually impossible to define because the surroundings in Slovenia, say around 200 kilometers in some Canada means nothing, in Slovenia means the whole of Slovenia. In the practice of identifying occupational diseases and diseases due to the impact of the environment, in addition to asbestos, which has a negative impact on health, there is also a type of substance that also affects diseases and also that people are suffering from cancer, but none of these diseases, except perhaps the tobacco we are making a negative campaign against, does not have the same treatment as asbestos. At this point, I wonder why we are prepared for this category of patients to prepare for special treatment and to ensure a greater level of rights than for other patients who have cancer or other occupational diseases or, say, environmental diseases? I have before me an article prepared by Dr. Zlata Roškar from the hospital in Golnik, and I would only read a few of her thoughts. In the last year, Golnik’s hospital management decided that when the institution was asked for expert opinions, it would give judicial expert opinions on the existence of asbestos disease and its consequences merely by the commission and thus ensure a more objective assessment of the individual’s health or the asbestos claimant’s impact. Instead of supporting and setting an example for the Golnik hospital in its efforts to assess the complainants' health situation more objectively, some try to prevent this, namely those who benefit from not having such an objective assessment of the health situation. While it is well known that in a small space as in Slovenia there are very few experts who in practice deal in depth with the problem of asbestos disease, the opposite. In particular, in some environments, "expert" opinions are appreciated, which more or less a priori please the applicant, the alleged patient. Why is it allowed today and the belief is that everyone who has been professionally exposed to asbestos, regardless of the objective presence of the disease indicators, is already a patient. Like 10 years ago, political opportunism didn't even want to see the risk of asbestos to the health of the exposed. Now its effects in the same areas are being misused for unwarranted benefits not only by exposed workers but also by lawyers and all those who, by duty or otherwise, participate in these procedures, while as a society we allow, despite almost 10 years of applicable laws, that we have not yet recovered in all working environments where asbestos is still being powdered and [[Slovenian railways, by which we spread and prolong the outbreak of asbestos diseases in the country]] . As can be seen from this short section, I am also afraid that if such an amendment is adopted, the beneficiary field or the quasi-beneficiary quasi will be strongly opened. I'm not here to do anyone wrong, but I'm afraid of it. And as Mr Brenčič said, a system of domination will be established. Finally, I must ask myself, of course, what has the previous government done in this area, that it has not responded adequately in eight years since this law was in force. She couldn't even do what our government is proposing today. Nor could she equalise all patients in Slovenia in the workplace. Why did she put that question in the drawer? Above all, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, why haven't you already changed the law with the content you are proposing today as amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u121	It is a pity that I did not get the right moment to speak, for after such performances it is really difficult to focus on what was actually supposed to be in Article 1, without a person talking about what I heard a few minutes ago, when from these speeches there is a growing number of inhumanity, inhumanity, inhumanity. Explains what some government or - I don't know - someone didn't do. Gentlemen, in the 1996 law, this category is inside. You're throwing her out. That government made a mistake before. It's true, Mr. Strauss is laughing, but he's spent ten years at this ministry making a fortune one way or another. That government then made a mistake to limit the validity of the law to a certain period, counting that science, expertise and so on could remedy the whole problem at that time, as was the case with the law. Clearly, it has proved to be a persistent, obstinate, long - growing disease and must be cured as it is. If, at a time when it was significantly less rich, at a time of material ill-treatment with many unknowns in development, in the perspectives for the next period, it has found irrefutable to Mr Hvalica, who was then a Member, to the last opposition and - if you wish - also to - also to the positional Member and Members of Parliament that it is necessary to prohibit production and trade in asbestos products in Slovenia. That's what happened. The companies from Anhoveg were rescued first by changing the law to Medvod, Sodražica and so on, Maribor, that I do not speak for each company individually. Unfortunately for those who have not yet died, people who have been sick who have gone through the procedures, through the commissions and so forth, have been granted status, rights and compensation under that law. Some have developed later, now emerges, and will appear. This country is obliged - after all, it is richer - that what it basically wrote can go to those who have worked in asbestos processes, as did those who have been in contact with it in a direct or indirect way. That's what that marriage said. And if that were so simple - and Mr Sok says, we must look at every tolar - if that were the case, the previous government has seen it too, but only in the last few years because of the problems that it has had at the end of the day, the Commission and those who have taken care of it, that obviously they could not issue all the decisions or that some processes have not completed that the money would also be used, or -- thank God -- the assessment of the current government was such that it was intended for such an acute problem of more money than it had actually been used in these years. So it's about humanity, about the humanity of that government. Not for what you're saying here. And let's face it for once that it's February 2006, 28. Before this government, before this national assembly are the problems of citizens and citizens concerned by this law, and let us talk about it. However, when I talk about it, it means that it is necessary to say whether you simply think that people are sick for this disease, both those who have worked and those who have lived in this environment, that the solution to this problem is contrary to European practice. The European practice, however you refer to it, is humane. And that means that every human being, every individual who touches it, should be given this treatment if you want it in European practice. And I say that this law has enriched, the one from 1996, the one that enriched European practice. We would do well to continue this European practice with him. It is not contrary to European practice. And if you are saying that on the one hand you are aware of the disease, on the other hand there are limited resources, but you are not prepared to talk about it in the way that it was, say, 2004 and 2005, when the money was allocated to the budget, you have redirected it elsewhere. Why? Why, if it was possible to deal with these problems, but you didn't? Tell me why. Or is it because we are now talking about these people who are entitled to it and if they didn't tell me about it, would you? Please, tell me that, I'm gonna stop talking about it right now. No political points, no advantage whatsoever on this issue must go to anyone. It is our duty together to listen to these problems and to deal with them in the right way. I reject anyone who unjustifiably comes to this list as a serious interlocutor. But the fact that you reject those who are directly affected, members from interested groups, from the asbestos patient union to the asbestos patient society, until - I don't know - who else is there and that you don't try to negotiate with him, you don't try to figure out what is what they would want. If this is a matter of excessive demands, if things do not belong to this law, it will be easy for me and you to agree that this does not belong to this law. I don't want a single thing to be in doubt when the commission finds out that someone's sick about this disease, that it's due to contact with asbestos, that it's not on that list, and that they don't immediately do what the law says. So to perform the treatment of retirement or compensation and so on. That's all. Everything else is really here being delusional and hypocritical. I agree that there are problems in agriculture, problems elsewhere in industry and so on. But let's solve the problem. And there's a problem on the table. The question is very clear. Let the government answer, he has time. Why do those groups who were married in 1996 suddenly fall out of marriage? Because someone was unjustifiably receiving something, someone abused it. Here they question quasi-decisions, quasi-experts, quasi-patients. Please, is it worthy of us to hear about our citizens and citizens in this way in this national assembly? I don't think so. It is our duty elsewhere to listen to the expert, to see what these commissions can and will not do in the future. And I know that medicine has certainly gone so far as to determine whether it is a disease in this title or any other address. And even after all, if we didn't find out, if someone had gotten this asbestoso and had been in some kind of contact with it, then we probably wouldn't deny to a man what I believe a humanist would have belonged to him. That is why I believe that it is necessary - for this amendment is simple and, of course, for others who are also connected. I believe we'll get an explanation then that it's about getting back to what the basic law has already regulated, but it didn't go through with it. Article 1 of the 1996 Act states which groups are to be regulated by this law and the law, which has been supplemented and so on. The law was complemented in a number of ways by a variety of questions. From the fact that we have expanded the areas, it has been a matter of learning the profession for new findings after Slovenia, that it is also another asbestos. I was really appalled when I heard months ago that the law on the prohibition of transport or activities with asbestos was still being ignored on the railways. Yeah, how is that even possible after ten years? I'm saying, I didn't know that, or else I'd probably have complained by then that the laws should be respected. How is this possible today? We have a law of prohibition, we have a law that travels. And that's not it. And that's why this amendment. Perhaps - Mr President - it would be even better for the legislative and legal service to say this sooner than before the vote, because this is all the rest of the debate. For if this amendment is the one that is bearable - and I believe it is - and in the part where it speaks of others, professionals and others as well as others, that I will not quote it now and this explanation here - that it is simply what we want at least some to be regulated. So, for all those cases involving asbestos, which are the result of these diseases and which this law is supposed to bring back to the law on one hand, and on the other hand, it has dealt with this issue more qualitatively than that law at the time, which unfortunately had the greatest disadvantage to say that it was time-limited. But we didn't know then, and science in ten years -- and you know how it can progress.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Capuder, do you have a replica? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you very much. How the law was implemented in practice is another thing, of course, which was written. The law was written in 1996 or adopted in 1996, and in 1996 it stated that the law prohibiting the production and transport of asbestos products was in force. Article 1 of this Act provides for the health and social security of Salonita workers, writes the resident and has not dealt with us residents, even though the ILO has provided us with this. Then the law was amended in 1998, where the words "and the health and social safety of the population" were added in Article 1. This lady, who sent us this letter, writes further: "But in the same law, further articles brought rights only to workers of Salonite and patients with occupational disease. Residents who were not employed in the Salonite factory, professional diseases are not and cannot have," and the lady notes: "We have the same diseases, the same problems, the same therapy and so on."
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. [[The ad in the hall.]] Please, please, please, please, please, Except for Mrs. Pecanov, no one has a word. Please! Excuse me, Mrs. Pecanova, Mr. Bevk has come after you. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u125	I would just like to say that when we have tabled an amendment to Article 1 concerning the extension of entitlement to all compensations, compensations and so on to the surrounding population, and also in the subsequent articles, where we are talking about the consequences of asbestos exposure, we do not go into very professional questions. An outstanding professional question is, among other things, how far from the source of asbestos was the patient’s life span. Whether it's 5 kilometers, 3 kilometers or 200 meters, it's irrelevant. It is essential that the patient has clear, professionally evident signs of asbestososis. It is called plaque, hardening of places in the lungs, lung cancer, lung cancer, which can be directly linked to asbestos-induced asbestos and so on. So it's not a matter of the national council that we're going to be dealing with what criteria are in order to prove that someone got asbestosy because they lived around the origin of asbestos dust. So I have to say, you don't have to question that. As a result, in the law, the Ministry itself or the government has foreseen an interdisciplinary commission that will check from every point of view - even from the Ministry of the Interior, it will probably have to be someone who will or will at least be asked whether this person really lived 10, 15 or 5 years near the origin of asbestos dust. Thus, we will not be able to go and check this, but will be checked by those who are educated, professionally qualified and also, of course, appointed by the competent national authority. The other thing I would like to say is that it is entirely possible to question the integrity of the applicants of the finding of a professional disease or a disease caused by asbestos - it is said - if I can use such a more free expression - of civilians, it can be fully justified, but once again an interdisciplinary commission has been set up to verify, in all respects, whether this person has really suffered from asbestososis or has just invented it. For God's sake, we do have top-notch experts. It is because of the fact that the appearance of asbestos has already begun to be detected and monitored in the Salonite Anhovo 25 years ago, that we are probably among, at least after the professional salary - I speak of health pay - better in the European Union, and we certainly have enough experts who can verify, identify and reject the suspicion of asbestososis. I'll say one more thing. It may sound strange, but those people who die behind mesothelioma or because of the lung cancer caused by asbestos actually find it easier because they die a year after they get sick. On average, it's almost certain. All those who have asbestososis where the lungs are disabled or disabled are so that the lung capacity is reduced by 60, 70, even 80% - you know - that people would like to understand what it means to breathe with lungs that are 50% or 60% disabled. By saying that disability belongs only to the one who has become sick because of working with asbestos, not to the one who lived in the vicinity of asbestos. They will have to ask what they think about this when we talk about sickness, compensation, and the benefits that a person should receive as a result. And finally this. In 1998, the law, which was introduced and adopted in 1996, was not one or the other, nor was it proposed by any of the governments or amendments, but was proposed every time by the Members. That's what I need to warn you about. And that's why we can't stop bragging about it, not being rude, and that's what I said in the beginning. From the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to Italy, which started with the production of asbestos cement products, it is necessary to ask about the responsibility of each country to its citizens. And I think that we can be more pleased that the situation, as said by colleague Anderlič, has begun to change significantly, that we are aware of the problem, that we have tackled the problem in 1996, that we have improved the conditions for those who have become sick, or that we may be sick or sick as residents in the vicinity of asbestos. In the end, we will now concentrate on the consequences of asbestos in people - it is said - we will no longer save companies, we will no longer provide jobs, we will no longer worry that instead of asbestos cement cover on the roofs will become wood fibre cover. If you don't know, the asbestos fibers are fibers from the northern trees, from the Nordic trees - it is said - that we still have such a simple cover, but no longer dangerous to health. And here's a whole bunch of moments that I think my colleague Bevk will explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u126	Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let's be honest, let's be very frank. All governments have had problems with this law. No government - if you want to - is not yours, nor ours was excited about this law. The first law concerning Anhovi was signed in 1996 by a colleague, Breda Pečan. In this House are the following Members who signed this: Josef Školč and Roberto Battelli, and this law was signed by Janez Podobnik, Miroslav Mozetič, Borut Pahor, Marjan Polšak, Ivo Hvalica and so on. 16 Members and Members from all parliamentary groups. In 1999 there was also a law on the gradual replacement of asbestos cement pipes in water infrastructure with drinking water, proposed by the then opposition member of the Slovenian Democratic Party Branko Kelemin. It is said - that more than the government has dealt with this problem has been the national assembly and Members. However, it is true that the government then had to listen, because the law was passed, and in each budget, it provided funds for the implementation of this law, initially for the restructuring of the asbestos production into an incorruptible and parallel period for early retirement and for the settlement of asbestos patients. The Committee on the Economy, which was also led by the MP of the then coalition, our colleague Ferri Horvat, has also done a great deal in relation to this law in the previous term. However, the petition commission, which was then led by the opposition MP, has also been very much involved today by the Minister of Mag. Janez Petty Officer. And it is precisely the members of these two committees and the Commission that we have achieved that in 2004 the government has very firmly untied its budget coin and contributed very much to the 2004 state budget for the implementation of this law. So an excuse to some previous government is twisted out of the vine and not true. I'd like to say that. Because it has been said that with these amendments we will now replace all the water pipes, all the water infrastructure, to replace all the roofs on the roofs of schools, kindergartens and so on. Far from it. But we are aware of this problem. This too will have to be resolved sooner or later by such a government or a different government. Then there's that quote from Dr. Remskar. We discussed on the parental committee who should assess who had become sick of occupational asbestos disease or another non-professional asbestos disease. Under this law, professional asbestos diseases can be defined by only six medical professionals who are qualified - at least that's how Dr. Dodič Fikfak said at a meeting of the parent committee - while environmental asbestos diseases can be discussed in courts by 140 forensic experts in the medical profession. It is said that if all of this goes to court, we will be able to receive a flood of asbestos diseases in a country that will not be properly assessed, as they will not be decided on by an interdisciplinary group of experts referred to in this law, but will be able to decide on environmental mesotheliomas by 140 judicial experts who are not qualified to determine asbestos diseases. So this is a very broad issue. I think it is good, however, to support the amendment to Article 1 and make way for the other amendments of the opposition parliamentary groups. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u128	Thank you very much! Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u129	I'm afraid Mr. Capudra is not here, but it's a good thing we're talking about things with credibility. I can apologize for those two years. But the point is that, according to the findings, after two years of law in force, the law was supplemented by the following dictatorship in 1998. It was clear in 1996 that the basic issue was to ensure the immediate and uninterrupted cessation of the production of asbestos cement products, the introduction of asbestos-free technology and the production of fibre cement products, and the phasing-out or replacement of other asbestos production into the unresolved and to ensure the social safety of workers and the health and social safety of the population exposed to harmful asbestos dust. I allow the possibility that it has not been done enough in those years to issue decisions to give people rights under this law. I say, however, that if it is true that Mr Capuder, Mr Sok and others want to do what is in this letter, but not to quote it against these amendments, if they want to do so from this letter, then it is this amendment that brings back to law what has been in it for at least 8 years. The law is this right, this possibility, until you replace it with this other law. And that's all I'm calling for. If you are referring to this population, then support this amendment, which brings the dictatorship back to the way it was. That's all. And here we can stop immediately, call the ones you didn't take for talks and make a deal with them. Let us ask them if this is what solves their problem. But once again, in the name of truth and justice, if you will, it is written in a law that you are replacing with another to save the inhabitants. Why did you, before last year or for this year, change the items below when we talk about money for asbestos patients? That's another question. You have to answer that question yourself. But the basis for this is in the law in force, which has expired because of the deadline and, of course, in this amendment, and that is all I support.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u130	Thank you very much! Mr Gulic Aleš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u131	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I would try to focus on the first amendment, which speaks of the need to expand the number of beneficiaries of these compensations, or which in some way speaks about what the government has also said in its previous proposals. The matter changed in the autumn era, apparently because the current bill no longer takes account of the surrounding people, it is said that those who are sick due to the consequences of the polls. Here an important issue of the responsibility of the State, or the legacy of the responsibility of the State and the 'factory', which has done so, is being raised and in some way discriminates against one part of those exposed to asbestos. And it discriminates very gravely. Indeed, discrimination is due, of course, to the fact that in some way they never had the will to live there at the "factory" which, of course, was dusting, which because of technological or indevelopment or non-discipline polluted their environment. If, in some way, those who work there voluntarily in the "factory" have chosen such a work, certainly because of their place of residence they have not been chosen by the people living there for a long time, even for several generations. Any thought that you have in some way set yourself up is deceptive and perverse. People live where they live. Before that, their neighborhood of the "factory" was imposed 84 years ago, rather than the other way around. It's a big fiction to not be able to solve this. Medical science, as well as environmental science, can determine exactly where the effects go and how they affect them. Surely it would be the right solution for the amendment to be supported. To get rid of it in the way the current government intended to solve it, she later changed her mind. Of course, I am interested in all of this: What is behind this thought or that it has changed? Is this the pressure of the intercement or its owners from Austria, because in the end, not only part of the budget is protected, but also the profit brought by the current "factory"? That's how it is, very simple. This was also pointed out to me by trying to hide a very narrow environment around Anho's case in the first place. Not only does it cover up the consequences of asbestos polling, but it magically tabooizes the word asbestos. On 2 September last year, at the 84th year of operation, this "factory" made a big celebration for young people entitled "The Night Change". When the word asbestos was mentioned, they wanted to remove the speaker from security because of the word - it is said - there is more to the back than just a word. I am sure that he has put pressure on a strong lobby here and, of course, some of the provisions that were previously told and also promised by the minister have disappeared in the bill. I would very much like to see Mr. Minister answering this question: Where did this solution come from, in fact, that the rest of them - are so - those who are sick, because they were exposed to the militias, but of course they were not employed, disappeared from the bill, and why are they so resisting this amendment, which will solve this matter? Even those speakers before me who in some way defended the law referred to all those who spoke in favor of the amendment as arguments. Therefore, I would like you to take off these masks of reasons for reducing the number of beneficiaries, so that you do not spill the ashes tomorrow, where asbestos fibres will also be. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Bajc has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u133	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Brief correction of comments by colleague Sam Bevk. First-signed colleague Breda Pecan, I think she was signed under the law in 1995. Given that I was a Member of Parliament during the mandate period 1996-2000, there was no colleague of Pecanov at the time. However, this law was summarized and was first signed in 1996 and was no longer a colleague of Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u134	Replica, Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u135	Yeah, buddy Bajc, we're gonna have to take a look at the calendar. She's got months, too. We took up our term at the end of 1996. However, the law was adopted before the 1996 elections in September, and a colleague of Pecan's was signed first, and along with 15 other colleagues of hers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thank you very much! Is he okay? Mr. Drago Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. Asbestos is a serious and severe disease. Anyone affected by such a disease is in need of help - assistance that allows him to receive all the possible and necessary medicines that will make his life easier. In my opinion, the law is good. I don't see the need for these legal rights to be extended. Indeed, this is precisely the issue of discrimination that has been raised in this Chamber many times today. The Shale Valley with Šostanje and Velenje and its wider surroundings has been exposed for more than 30 years to high levels of SO2. In our valley, we poisoned ourselves all this time, became cancer patients, and died after that cancer. It seems fair to me that these people who suffer from other occupational diseases would also benefit from all the benefits that we provide to these asbestos patients today. Although I have to stress once again - I say - that asbestos is a serious disease and that it is therefore necessary to do everything possible to make it easier to do everything possible to make this disease easier by the time we do all the things that cause this disease. I think that as a country we must do much more to eliminate all these sources of asbestos that we still have in Slovenia. In my opinion, we will do the most by removing all that where we still have asbestos in such situations that can endanger our health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u138	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I would just like to point out that there has already been a speech about the need, the urgent need to identify occupational diseases in Slovenia. My friend Germich talked about this. I don't think we need to do this again. Also, someone - I think - from NSI mentioned that this is actually the first step. This law is the first step towards a system law on the determination and identification of occupational diseases. I am confident that other diseases caused by the impact of individual agents in the environment will also need to be connected. As you said, SO2 or anything else, which can cause diseases that we can no longer define as occupational diseases because they did not occur in the work environment of this agency but outside it. So again, I fully agree, and I also think that none of the candidates for these amendments, and those that we have already started, will be the one that we are now replacing when we tabled the previous law in 1996. We have already talked a lot about the need to go ahead and determine which occupational diseases we have in Slovenia, because of the fact that, of course, we do not have all the occupational diseases that occur all over Europe because there are certain branches of industry or certain activities that we do not have at all. So there's no such occupational illness, there's no such thing as us. However, all those we do not have today, we have extremely few occupational diseases defined, which is unusual for a country that is, after all, very much once again with the health and safety law at work - or what it is already called - a lot of investment in employers having to take care of a safe and healthy working environment. The consequences of a dangerous and unhealthy working environment causing occupational diseases are not set out in a specific law. I think it is high time that this Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health are offered to the State Assembly for admission. I'd be happy to take part in it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u140	Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u141	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I fully agree with all of you who have pointed out today that the discussion is tied to a very narrow segment, that of course the problem is significantly broader, that the causes of the disease are much more important, that we can talk about what the working conditions are in jobs, and that we can talk about what the situation is in the environment in which we live. I completely agree with that. We are taking measures to improve certain areas by adopting certain laws. Of course, it saddens me when we say that when we talk about patients who are not only suffering from asbestos as a result of exposure to asbestos, because the causes of asbestos exposure are much more by classification. But when we talk about this and when we talk about the data that we have here, we can estimate that, of course, the proportion of those who are going to get sick for this disease and who are living in the environment and are accidentally -- let's say -- exposed to that kind of influence and are, therefore, affected, statistically significantly less than those who were professionally bound to asbestos during the period. And here, of course, the proposalr does not assess the relationship between each other and what the consequences will be in 10, 20 years. Because when we look at the diagrams between the exposure and the signs of the disease, it's been here for 10, 20 years. And we need to think about it today. Today, because when we talk about not having a letter, as you quote here today, as the reason why someone did not do it before, that we should not do it, but we must hear these letters as a warning and a warning that we will today correct what may not have been done in the previous period, because it was the biggest problem in our minds. But the biggest problem was to stop working with asbestos. So, avoid any further source of this disease. And I'd like to do it again here. EU countries adopted these measures in 1998-1999. Slovenia has started implementing these measures two years earlier. Canada raised a dispute before the World Trade Organisation and did not lose it until 2001. This means that we're not talking here about things that someone didn't want to do for -- I don't know -- reasons, but I was talking earlier about today being able to talk about late lessons and early arguments. And today, again before these decisions, whether these warnings, which have been for decades before that, will be recognized as a lesson to be learned today by adopting such amendments, which would equally include all those exposed to asbestos and those who have suffered the consequences of having equal opportunities. Of course, we expect a clear response from the government. Are we talking here about the numbers that will be reached because of this enormous number, or will we be confirmed by what experts have told us on the committee that these are different dimensions of the scale? Therefore, I suggest that there will be no evaluation here of the collection of political or other points, that in some consensus we try to give a clear message that everyone who has suffered from asbestos exposure will also have the same rights under this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u142	Thank you. I conclude, Mr. Bevk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u143	Thank you very much! A colleague from Nova Slovenije quoted earlier an article by Dr. Zlata Remškar, a doctor from Golnik. I suggest you read it all. We've only got one lung, too. It's the address. You will see that this article discusses something other than what was quoted earlier. That is why I think it would be good, especially for colleagues from the coalition to read this article. As regards asbestos diseases, I would like to quote again Dr Dodič Fikfak, who runs the Institute of Medicine, that asbestos diseases are separate from other occupational diseases in Europe, because asbestos is the substance that is scientifically proven to cause professional cancer. However, doctors here in this National Assembly could say more about this. That is why I am sorry that my colleague Klavor is leading the meeting today, but it would be better if he sat here next to me and he could come to the discussion on the other hand, but by the rules of procedure, this position makes it impossible for him to do so. In addition, Dr. Dodič Fikfak says that only 27 occupational diseases have been detected annually in Slovenia. I've done it again and again today. He says we should have a minimum of 1,500, and he also says because we do not detect professional diseases in Slovenia and we are one of the few countries in Europe that do not. So that we can solve the problem of this asbestos law, not professional diseases, but in other legislation, because it is a very broad problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, the replica. Here you go, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u145	Thank you very much! Since colleague Bevk has pointed out what our fellow Member Capuder has read, which he is not at the moment, I will only repeat the last sentence of this letter. He says, "As we see, we're actually separated. On the one hand, we are, at all costs, in solidarity with exposed asbestos. That's legitimate. On the other hand, we remain inconsistent in fulfilling legal provisions. This is worrisome, as their consideration would be necessary to stop the new cases of asbestos disease." That is to say, this law, which we have had so far and which you have extended or extended every year, has not afforded these patients the opportunity despite the funds provided in the budget. As a result, resources remained in the budget somewhere in the middle of the planned appropriations each year. I think that now that the Commission has been set up under this law, this matter will go differently and that the funds will no longer remain.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u146	Thank you very much! Mrs. Pechanova, would you like a replica? For what? It's a debate. Then you will have your word after Mr Ljubeljski, who is now on his turn. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! I would like to contribute something to the debate myself, to this Article 1. Today's debate is held in the same way as on the parent's working body, since the amendments are tabled in substance. The debate on the amendment to Article 1 is also extensive and crucial as this amendment changes the very concept of the bill. This amendment also includes the population and not just working with asbestos or other diseases due to exposure to asbestos dust. It is difficult to challenge this amendment because it is politically desirable, which you are making good use of by your well-respected colleagues and colleagues from the opposition. This is also your legitimate right. Despite the political sensitivity of this subject, I will object to the adoption of this amendment because of the arguments which I will also put forward below. I object to the amendment, although I come from an environment where asbestos issues are still present. I myself have worked very hard to do so, as our Group of Members, to introduce the population in appropriate substantive form into the bill, but there was no valid professional basis for this, except for the human sense of the sick. Unfortunately, there are no credible system expert analyses and studies, perhaps only partial, individual. There are no professional criteria according to the distance from the source of asbestos dust pollution. Nor is the professional estimated potential number of patients with asbestos dust, resulting in the calculation of the burden of the state budget over the coming years and decades, since the latent period is extremely long. Or do all these studies and expert evaluations exist and have not been transmitted to us? However, you may have them, because I do not believe that because of political likeness you have decided to propose something without professional, analytical and legal grounds. I'm surprised at the lesson of my colleague Anderlich. I ask: Why didn't you also introduce this amendment and similar amendments into the existing law that entered into force in 1996 and has been amended three times? Why didn't you do it, colleagues and colleagues from LDS and SD, because you had power, government and almost a third of the majority in this National Assembly? It would be interesting to read the magnetograms from that period of discussion of colleagues who turned the board today. I, too, have a letter from the people of the Canal, telling us that they were deceived by the previous law, that it brought rights only to the workers of Salonite. I'm not quoting because it's already been quoted. I wonder: How many compensations have been paid from the present law to the inhabitants, how many have been retired under special conditions? Undisputedly, the Anhovea area is the most polluted area in Slovenia. According to the data, 96% of all certified occupational diseases from Salonita Anhovo. So I'm asking, what is the large circle of the affected population from the source of pollution, in which case from Salonit Anhovo, is that 100, 200 meters or is that a kilometer, 2 kilometers or more? While I was informed in the discussion on the working body that in the case of Anhovo, it was not the appearance of asbestos patients in the circle of the source, but much more towards the south, where the wind was constantly blowing. How, then, can this limit or zone be established in order to be professionally justified and, above all, fair and fair to all the inhabitants? What are we going to tell those people who are going to stay behind this administrative border, just a few meters or more, who will later become sick of asbestos disease? Here, you see, there is injustice and inequality before the law. I ask: Is it possible for the endangered area to be determined only in the Anhovea area? What about areas such as Medvode with Donit, Isolirka Ljubljana, Termika, Velika Loka, TVT Maribor, Slovenian Railways, Kletilnica Sodražica, not to mention. Thus, it is in itself a solution to decide the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia for the threatened area. And that, if I understand correctly, is also what you're proposing to propose amendments. I ask: Does this mean that, when we address the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia, people with asbestos may be involved because of the saloon roofs on their houses, when they have assembled or exchanged the saloon boards themselves, because after many years these saloons are peeled, repented, and they hang asbestos dust sections on the rims? Are people living in assembly facilities, residential homes, kindergartens, schools where they are still covered in asbestos panels included? Are the inhabitants who drink water from the water pipes in Medvod, Stanežič, Medne, Medna, where I come from, still have more and more kilometres of water pipes? Since we are talking about the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia, I am asking the question: What about pollution and pollution of the environment, which are and also cause various physical and mental diseases, including the consequences of death, such as Idrija, Mežica, Ravne, Store, Jesenice, Trbovlje and areas of enterprises that release various emissions of volatile solvents and chemicals into the environment? And the pollution of groundwater when people drink water to consume various pesticides and other poisons, or the inhabitants of Prekmurje, when they roll around their settlements day and night, constantly rolling and worse, standing columns of trucks that poison the environment with exhaust gases, from which lead is placed on the lawns, causing even unbearable noise, etc.? Should we ignore or dismiss all of this in comparison with the asbestos problem? Furthermore, what you are proposing is being addressed only in a partial and non-systemic manner without high-quality professional backgrounds unaware of all possible consequences. I submit that on all this complex problem of pollution and pollution caused by various diseases in our country, the profession must first be declared on the basis of professional studies, analyses and assessments, and then can only be responsibly enacted to address the consequences of the polluted and poisoned environment, and gradually by priority. Asbestos must be a priority. Since the amendment is not supported by such professional grounds, unfortunately I cannot support it. First, we need a systemic step, a step of the profession, only to be followed by a step of the law. As a result, complex studies of asbestos problems need to be developed as soon as possible. With such an approach and sequence, it is possible to supplement and upgrade the proposed law in the future by including the population. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u148	Sir, just Bevk, you have a replica. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u149	Thank you very much! About the profession. It seems to me that unfortunately the government has not fully taken it into account. Here I have a letter from the Clinical Institute for Labour, Transport and Sports, Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs addressed: Professional comments on the proposal of the law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos work. Dr. Dodič Fikfak, doctor of medicine, specialist in medicine, transport and sports is signed. These amendments have not been taken into account, even though we are all incorporating them into our amendments already at the meeting of the parent committee, as some have today, and some have even been accepted as amendments to the committee at that meeting, when we considered this in the first half of the year, February. Now - I don't know - colleague Ljubeljšek, because you have already volunteered for the replica, if you have been in this session all the time, but it is precisely these professional arguments about belts around factories, about the number of patients, how many are registered, as far as is estimated, about all these professional data spoken at this meeting by Dr. Method Dodič Fikfak. It is also based on this information that our amendments are based on. Don't say we didn't even check the case in the line. It is true, however, that the government has more realistic possibilities with its apparatus and other possibilities for writing this law in such a way as to be consistent with the social partners and with the medical profession as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u150	Thank you very much! Mr. Ljublješek, there is no replica to the replica. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u151	Thank you very much! I would like to say essentially a reaction to what we have heard about how we have done nothing to prevent the further spread or emissions of asbestos dust into the environment. I'd like to tell you this. The Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, has made it clear that he will carefully check the functioning of the inspection services. In doing so, I hope that he has not limited his verification only to the inspection services related to the events at the Lipa restaurant, but that he will verify the functioning of all inspection services, including, inter alia, work inspections, work protection and construction inspections. Because concrete examples of exactly one of these, Mrs Remškareva writes in her article, this is the renewal, the repair of carriages in Maribor, where workers are exposed to continuous and continued emissions of asbestos dust not because they are newly installed, as it may be from the article to understand, but because they repair wagons that are treated with asbestos trimmings, which are the fastest to forgive and release asbestos fibres and are constantly exposed to the effects of asbestos fibres. No one, in particular the Labour Inspectorate, has made sure that, if they do so, they will be adequately protected. We have set up, so the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has set up an inter-resortation subcommission for asbestos, where explicit instructions have been prepared on how to actually work to remove asbestos residues in demolition of buildings, renovation of buildings and so on. Well, it looks like the work inspector didn't control it. I propose to the Prime Minister that this requires that the work inspection report, how it supervised the work with asbestos, processed wagons in Maribor and in the shipyard - Izola - say, when they are not wagons, but are ships. And that - for example - should no longer come to the Shipyard of Isol ships such as are protected in the interior with asbestos. So all this stuff is a fact. And the other two cases were one that personally affected me as mayor at the time when your colleagues attacked me, why I didn't make sure that all the instructions for the demolition of industrial facilities in Isola would be taken into account. In this respect, the mayor has no jurisdiction, but that is how construction inspectors and labour security inspectors have jurisdiction. The same thing happened in Cel. There not only were workers working on the construction site but the entire population dipped in asbestos dust because they simply blew up the factory that they had destroyed and was completely covered with asbestos plates. It is said that here the issue of the functioning of those bodies in this country, which must prevent what Mrs Remškareva rightly stressed. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u152	Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that again. Comrade Ljubeljšek, many of your questions would not be necessary if you could read everything that the government has already written down in the law or, say, amendments that are written by the coalition. For the answers would be clear in themselves. I'm sure only one of them will be next. Therefore, when we talk about the legal arrangements for the consequences of the use of asbestos, it is clear in the second paragraph that the first amendment of the basic law has been supplemented in that the recognition of rights has no longer been required to carry out work in asbestos at the time of the cessation of production and has also provided health and social security to residents who have been exposed to the harmful effects of asbestos powder. [[their applications so far have not been made]] . So this is where one of your questions goes. Second question: To whom does this apply? If we had read the amendment to Article 2, we would have seen exactly that this refers to all those who did it related to asbestos and to those who were exposed to asbestos because of the asbestos work done by some others. Of course, I agree here with your questions that you are pointing out, and we keep reminding you that someone has not heard arguments from different sides in the drafting of this law. You did not take the profession into account; you did not leave the patients who were organized into a union or society or in any other form. And, of course, on this basis, the text that we are now trying to correct in some acceptable form on the basis of all these letters and opinions. On the other hand, look, we are in this mandate, because you tell us what else is needed to do, you have proposed a law that you have strongly rejected in the coalition. For example, a law on measures to reduce environmental pollution with dust particles in the upper limit valley. So when we try to fix something, you say no. You're saying you're going to do this systemically. Unfortunately, there is no system regulation in the year and a half as far as we are concerned in this mandate. In doing so, it must be made clear to the Slovenes and Slovenes that the field of environmental protection in Slovenia is regulated by a variety of regulations, from the Resolution of the National Environmental Protection Programme to the law and type of other regulations and by-laws. I will now also refer here to the debate by Mrs Pecanova. Once again, I draw attention to the question I have asked the Minister of the Environment on the issue of the removal of criticisms estimated at around 400,000 tonnes. We are expected to remove about 20,000 tons a year. His assessment is what inspections do. And the data he provided are as follows: in 2003 there were 43 such areas and last year there were only 9. Can we only expect 9 in 2004? Can we expect such a trend to decline control of inspection services over what is happening in this area? This means that in 2005, if we ask the Minister, the inspections did not carry out any controls. And all the discussion that we are having today is just to prevent further possibilities for asbestos exposure, because asbestos exposure cannot be avoided. For in the coming years there will be a replacement of these critiques or any other material that includes asbestos. And it is precisely to give a clear message of caution to those who have to care for the responsible conduct of those who are qualified to do so in order to be deposited as they must be deposited in order to reduce any risk to the disease, that is why compensation will be reduced. I remind you once again, I agree that the 1996 law did not include all these consequences, which in the course of developments have only brought about the implementation of the law. For the first law speaks only of the prohibition of the production and transport of asbestos products and of the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production in an incorruptible manner. And when we discussed it on the committee, we saw together that this law needs to be upgraded with a new law that will include additional elements. And the additional elements are precisely how to provide security and the right to compensation to those who have also suffered from asbestos exposure. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u154	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! At first, I did not intend to be involved in the debate on this law, although it is also in our area - it is said - near Maribor, this problem of asbestos disease is already present through TVT Maribor, where - which has already been mentioned - worked with asbestos and is still working when the wagons are repaired. However, see, there is so much talk about what needs to be done to cover as much of the population as possible and to prevent it. I am sorry that we are actually faced with the swindling, as colleague Anderlich said, but he also mentioned hypocrisy. And if he somehow indicated that he was moving all over the hall, he could not point to others in hypocrisy. That's where you have to look politically in your own direction. Hypocrisy is a change of attitude. If I understood Mollier and Tartuff correctly, then there's no need to point at others. You need to be self-critical here. And so is Mrs. Pechanova. She wonders that we have done nothing to prevent the emission of asbestos dust into the environment and here cites and compares his call to inspectors. Here I have a letter from her township two years ago, but she did not reply about the Russians she mentioned at the shipyard in the industrial zone. He says they walked through asbestos dust in Isol. She was warned, but it didn't work. It is true that they are inspectors for this, but for their citizens, ma'am. I'm going to quote this letter that you haven't responded to. I would like to know how the Lady, who was very active in her former role in the asbestos law [[And he likes to boast about it.]] I let people walk through asbestos dust in the middle of her town. Through the window of your office, you won't see what the destroyers in Agrolinia did with the roof covering that contained asbestos, and you don't see anything. Despite the lawyer our country has, and where the treatment of asbestos criticisms accurately describes and despite the knowledge of asbestos you certainly have, there has been no answer. I'm very upset with this misbehaviour. In fact, if such people comment in such a way, then I don't know what the population can think. To that I must say that I would be happy if this law could be extended to anyone who could potentially get sick. This also raises the question to me whether in some way the country will also be protected by those who have actually been affected in other areas of their work or life and will also be sick, not for asbestososis, but for other substances. I used to work at the clay and aluminum factory. There, workers once worked in catastrophically difficult conditions. They were inhaling fluorine gases. Labour disability is extremely common. On the other hand, agriculture. When we were little, it splintered with so-called Rumesan. Farmers, my parents also had two months of this yellow hand, and I didn't realize what kind of chemical it was. It was only as a chemistry student when I graduated from organic chemistry that I realized that it was certainly an extremely dangerous diasaphragm, which is practically all carcinogenic. But when they did it and did it, no one warned them. Many of these were cancers, probably because they worked with such diazasins. And it is quite clear to me that we cannot predict all and exactly all cases forward. And it is actually very difficult to draw this leopard skin of danger in Slovenia and it is impossible to paint it. Of course, I am disturbed by this hypocrisy when I remember Ivo Praise fighting and fighting at all times that he finally partially managed to bring this law to life. And why, in fact, did you not then make such a provision that you could pay a large sum or approve of all those who felt the consequences of this production there in Anhove? I wonder, I don't remember such unvoluntary support to Ivo Praise at the time. We kind of crashed into it. But those who speak of hypocrisy today, go back a little bit, and ask yourself and see your conduct there. We must also be aware of the real possibilities of the country. Because all the consequences - although I would be for this - of all the consequences, in fact, today we cannot predict and ensure them in advance. Of course, I strongly agree that we must be as careful as possible and take seriously any warning that is present today that we will be able to act tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u156	Mr. Anderlich, the replica!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u157	I really don't know if what Mr Jerovšek is saying would have to be discussed at all. So, if you care about not going to hypocrisy and not quoting those who are affected and threatened and resolved by a law that is no longer in force, then you would simply agree and return to the law. You don't care about that. You're referring to how something wasn't done. You are quoting a lady, but at the same time you are advocating a failure to settle this issue. This is fraud, hypocrisy, whatever you want. Hypocrisy would be - Mr Jerovšek - if I did not support this law in 1996 if I did not support this law in 1998 if I did not argue with the Minister of Finance, with the Minister of the Environment, with the Minister of Health, with the Minister of Labour and including Mr Stroms every year in the budget, that it is necessary to provide funds for these purposes in the budget law or in the budget. More. It was guaranteed as much as it was said today that they were then redeployed to other areas. So what are we talking about? To talk about how many people in Slovenia have been exposed in the past at different ends, in different activities, in different parts to harmful influences and that this argument is how not to solve those who have been clearly already recognised as the categories of people who have already been recognised as having to be treated by the State and that it is right that the State saves them from taking this argument. No! No! I am in order to arrange this and all other groups of people who have been exposed in one way or another, and that the country must certainly, within the limits of their options - I agree - help and solve things. What has been found in the last period is more than clear that some of the things that were still yesterday as an acceleration in production, as an acceleration in the increased processing of food and so on, are harmful today, are being removed, stimulated, and that this country and the European Union, if you want, are also being stimulated by the European Commission through agricultural subsidies - you know. The strong billions go in this direction - too bad that Mr Sok is not here, precisely in this direction, to deal with the consequences of such farming, to eliminate the intensity, to balance nature and so on. Yet these are the achievements of the development of civilization, of the profession and of our adaptation to it. That's all it's about. There is no need for long debates, nothing to show for it. We did what we did.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u158	Mr. Anderlich, it's been three minutes. The replica is three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u159	I'll be able to discuss it. There's no problem, but I'm talking about things. Others talked about other things.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u160	Thank you. Yes, Mrs. Pechanova, you have the floor. Please! You've reached out to me. I wrote you down, and the next is Mr. Anderlich. He signed up for the debate. That's your replica. Yes, please. No, I give the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u161	Thank you! Very short. First time! The answer to that letter was very extensive in the Mandrac newspaper, if you want Mr Jerovšek, I can prepare it for you. Another time. The mayor can do nothing in such a case, except that I specifically warned the investor that he must have properly equipped workers, properly disposed of waste and so on and properly disposed of. I can't, of course, stop him from doing this because it's not the mayor's jurisdiction. Third time. The construction inspector, who is based in Cyprus, is at home in Izola and is president of the SDS, has done nothing. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u162	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich has the floor. Here you go, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u163	I have already thanked Mr Praise and all those who understood and did so in the previous implementation. That's right. Although I do not want any credit for any law, for any measure that is the result of eliminating - if you want - the problems of the tragic consequences of the past, but it is our duty. I don't know what I would do, Mr Jerovšek, if I were before that challenge then. But I know it's up to us. That's the only question. I have previously asked the Minister or the representative of the government or anyone of the ruling coalition who would reject these amendments, but they do not want to listen to what we are talking about to answer and do not need to discuss for another two and a half hours if we agree that it is right in the law to regulate Article 1 in the manner proposed by the amendment, so that the category of residents or endangered categories should also be returned outside those who were directly in the work process, if we agree. Then it is also in support of the letter which Mr Capuder and Mr Testen like to quote and so on. This is in support of these people, in support of this letter. Asbestos, societies, and so on, appealed to the public, to the assembly, and so on, advocated this. Therefore, if we also agree to this, there is no need for discussion. If we agree that things have changed from the past to that of society for the first time because of knowledge and more skills and also "these luxuryes" to avoid asbestos products. Some countries that are less developed may not be able to do so yet. I even know, and you probably know, that Canada sued the European Union, and only a few years ago, this lawsuit was lost because Europe was sued for banning transport or production and trafficking in asbestos products. She lost it because on a global level, it became clear that it was dangerous, dangerous things. And if we do something more, we do something better for our people, because it's the end of the day for citizens and citizens of this country, then I don't see what's wrong. I'm just here to ask for some answers. If we agree, I have no need to repeat whether we have done this or not to settle accounts, whether we have done good or bad. All we have done is regrettably for many too late to make amends today. But from now on, I want these things to be done differently. That's how I picture our mission. Everything else will be told by the voters when it's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u164	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Almost everything was said about the asbestos issue, but I would like to point out three things. The first is that unfortunately, 30 years ago, it was not nearly known how severe the consequences of exposure to asbestos caused, that we are not saying that later, when it was somehow known, every attempt at protection in working with asbestos and using asbestos products failed. In fact, if 100% protection against harm were possible for those who worked with asbestos, then those who worked with asbestos or in the asbestos environment would be professional, even better off than passersby who didn't know it. Since those who are professionally involved in certain knocks know about them, they are adequately protected and do not get sick or are not affected by such harm. Since 100% protection could not be ensured, the only way was to stop or prohibit the use of asbestos, thus eliminating the potential consequences for humans in the long term. Now, if we are to ask what exposure means for an individual, we must admit that from the individual's point of view it is entirely irrelevant whether they have been exposed professionally or unprofessionally. For a person who is ill and who dies too soon, it doesn’t matter where and under what conditions the inhalation of this powder occurred. It is important for an individual to suffer irreparable health damage and thus become disabled, so that he will no doubt die prematurely. From this point of view, it would be right and fair to the matter and to the affected citizens in order to resolve it without division into professional and non-professional diseases. And last but not least, despite the relatively many, large numbers of those who have been exposed to asbestos at work or accidentally exposed in these last 30 years, it is necessary to know and accept this fact that the consequences will be successful and that at the same time there will not be many at the annual level who might be recognizable to the sick and be given adequate protection or compensation. So that I think the financial consequences will not be the same, in this case they would not be and will not be as severe as anyone would like to say, because these withdrawal periods, in which the disease as a result is proven and exposed in its most unpleasant forms, are long and because of this, and fortunately not in all those who have been exposed. The harmful particles are less than 8 microns, while the other lungs are cleaned with their protective mechanisms. Not everyone who worked with asbestos and not in every environment of this species and not anyone was exposed to these tiny particles. So I think it would suggest that we accept these facts and settle this matter for all who will - but, although something will come up, I want to and I hope that there will be as few as possible, because I have seen some such patients, I have also had myself who have died. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u166	Mr Jerovšek, you've done something before, and you've done something now. Now raise your hand, please. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u167	In fact, I am obliged to react to the implementation of Mrs Pecanova. I think this author Alexander Krebel here really says he hasn't won in two years.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u168	Is this a debate or a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u169	Yeah, you didn't give me the replicas before, and now it's a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u170	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u171	That he hasn't received an answer in two years. That's why I quote, I don't know, you probably answered something else, Mrs. Pechanova. You've probably attacked some of our officials, I think, and now you're saying that you've answered a specific question about asbestos dust in Isola. In fact, in many of your performances, I've noticed this Pilate's handwashing. And that bothers me, this Pilateian handwashing, because now you're talking about how early warning is that we're facing late lessons. At the time when we were fresh Members, I remember once again Iva Praise and his torments that he had at least partially convinced. And don't talk, I'm saying once again, duality is what you're saying today and you're looking at this side. It's duality and hypocrisy. Maybe there's a little bit of a ruse with us, too. I'll allow that. But there was more in the past. These amendments are also written in a way that is written on a note of populism. Not from humanity, but from a note of populism to capture as many populism voices as possible, rather than being real, to write them down more narrowly, so that those who are facing this disease and who are facing it may be affected. On this subject, your amendments were not written on this note. You're playing on a note of populism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u172	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u173	What Mr Jerovšek is doing needs no comment. It should be clarified, however, that Mr Praiser did not suffer from this law, that he did not write it and so on. And with this you cannot wash your hands before the question is clear: Do you want to settle this issue or not? In no way is it about spreading the circle just like that, but it is only possible for those people who, because of such diseases - this Dr. Žnidaršič could better say or Dr. Klavor - where this disease occurred. The source is known, the exposure was undoubtedly that it happened. I trust in the commission, in the expertise, and so forth, that it will not include anyone who would be a speculator by Jerovsk. Which would be just like that, because we allowed him to be listed in some sort of circle of patients. Yeah, hell, can we really get rid of that word in this choir so we can stimulate people here, get sick, get some certificates and so on? Please! It's a matter of protection, it's a possibility. I would like this law not to be applied once in 2006, 2007 and in subsequent years - not to be applied once to these needs. Hypothetically, that can happen. But the problem is, if there's one case, it can't be solved because there's no law. That's a big problem. Our mission is to act differently than to realize that it is a thing that continues and builds up that it is. Yes, Mr Capuder, I don't know if you knew what happened in 1996 and what the law was adopted for. Because your valley was saved by another law, about closing mines, etc. There are also Izlaki among them, which you support so much that they are a congregation, etc. Izlake and that valley were also saved by another law. Because this country and this society have understood that if mining has been banned over so many years and so many years, this valley needs to be repaired. This country was aware of the need to remedy the origins of asbestos production, and I hope that Mr Hvauc will tell you at some point, because he set the railroad on fire, when he said on the railways, because he is a public company and will ask the Minister when you will ban this "hate" asbestos on the railways. Otherwise, I can't imagine this discussion. And because that's because in agriculture there's also a ban on some herbicides, etc. Therefore, together, if you want Mr Sok to be gone before, this country has decided with the EU to grant subsidies to farmers for farming in a different way. And it was wrong to use what was used. I'm pretty sure of that. But to say that it is a matter of washing the hands of Pilate, if something started 10 years ago and needs to be completed in the course of developments, is to be resolved by solving the last case. That's what this amendment is talking about. You will not be able to convince anyone, except perhaps yourself, Mr Jerovšek, that this amendment speaks of anything other than the fact that it wants to include in the law a doctrine that has been in one that you no longer want to admit, which is widespread for you, which stimulates speculators to apply for diseases, etc., that this law will only do what some law has already begun. You don't admit it. That's what I have to say, and I don't know why no one wants to answer my question. Are you in favour of all those who are sick with asbestos, whether they were in the production process or had a house with them, or whether they were taking the kids to their father's "factory" lunch or not? Tell me, are you in favour of all those who suffer from asbestososis from this title to be admitted, for the first time, and for the second time, that the state arranges this? In such cases, when there are tragic consequences, it is even difficult to talk about compensation. Can we talk about compensation or something else? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u174	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u175	In my previous speech, colleague Anderlič, it was a rude instigation and defiance of my debates, for I cannot be told that I have ever taken part in any debate in this House against patients who have become sick due to the consequences of asbestos. I took my stand, and even today I think they need to listen and do everything. I agree that it would be better if there were no more cases in the future. However, I have performed in such a way that you today realize that you are hypocritical today, and I would stress this once again that you are today promising what you once did not want to overlook. In this regard, I mentioned to my colleague Iva Praise, because I know what efforts we were making to help him at the time. And if you knew at the time that you could fix the law in a way that would be operational, there was now a lot of water. It's been a long way since it was empty. I am aware that the many who died were unable to enforce anything by law because you did not want to change it then in this direction to be operational. That's my point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u176	Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u177	Just for a little while.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u178	I would ask you, not you, Mr. Sok, but all the debaters. I don't have a chance to step in and report to the debate, so I'd just like to ask something. It's a very serious matter, and it's a very important matter. I think that the debate should also take into account what is said at the expense of the profession, at the expense of that, at the expense of all things which are extremely serious, including the commissions which are supposed to be and which are supposed to decide on that. That's how I think, because I'm not burdened by what I said yesterday, what I said to the other day, who I was talking to. Please, if the next debate takes place in this style. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u179	Thank you very much. That is exactly what I wanted, Mr President, to say to my colleague Anderlich that I will not mix agricultural subsidies with asbestos. I don't think that's right. I wanted to warn him it was pure populism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u180	Thank you. Mr. Hwaucu, do you have a replica? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u181	Thank you very much. My colleague Anderlič mentioned me about Slovenian railways or should I say a word in favour of banning the use of this material on Slovenian railways or on vehicles maintained and serviced in workshops. I would like to say here that this statement, at least as far as I'm concerned, has nothing to do with whether we're saving those who have been professionally affected by asbestos or others, is to say those who have been exposed to this harmful material because they were living in an environment near these hotspots. In the case of Slovenian Railways it was that, despite the law prohibiting the use and production of asbestos, these workers were employed in such conditions. And when I was in another role, we did our best to save quite a lot of these employees. Some got rid of themselves because, unfortunately, they're already dead. But it is true that he is, in pain and in all his hard life. That's why I meant it with all due respect for them. Unfortunately, these current data show that this disease on Slovenian railways has not yet reached its peak, that this number is still increasing, that we can still expect an increase in the number. That is why I think it is also necessary to regulate this area with the law in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u182	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Just a fix, Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u184	Germich, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I'd just like to warn you. I am sure that all the words we say here are carefully weighed, because we are always more or more critical in the eyes of the public. Here I join your warning - Mr President - that the content we are talking about is very serious and very important. Of course, the words of some Members are of a slightly different weight, because we come from different backgrounds, with different professional education. And here - colleague Jerovšek - like himself, we are somehow coming from a chemical profession and it is very important because here the word here has even greater weight. Both of us, when dealing with various substances, carcinogens, poisons in such and different forms during our studies, were consciously dealing with the behaviors we had. We've encountered a number of dangerous substances here. We are talking here today about people who didn't even realize that they were exposed to certain asbestos influences and that they could have consequences for getting sick. The observations we receive as a former government all the time during this 1996 - 2000 term were not here when this law came into existence, and it was also the first time that it had been amended. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that France has adopted a similar law since Slovenia and that it has already been said here that the World Trade Organisation has led a dispute against individual countries of the European Union and lost it in 2001. Here's the question about the profession. When we quote it, you're telling us why we're referring to some studies. I wonder how many people here today who are discussing have read this study of late lessons and early arguments that you are reading to us here today to quote? But in this study it is also possible to read the following that in certain studies conducted between 1917 and 1964, more than 50% of the 76 cases studied for mesothelioma exposed to asbestos were professionally or privately. What does that mean in private? Very interesting. They lived with a worker who had contact with asbestos. So someone lived with someone who worked in asbestos production, and that way he could get sick. And we will not admit to such a law - for example - the rights that this law gives. And the next thing is, a third of the rest lived in an area less than 800 meters from the source. And here he goes on to say that the lawsuits against the company were also filed after 30 years of epilogue. And here I would like to make it clear once again that through more than 100 years of experience with asbestos, there has been a variety of different actions in history. Slovenia adopted certain measures in 1996, today in 2006, ten years later. We have before us the text of a law that can upgrade these measures. It will depend only on political will today to what extent this law will be upgraded. My opinion is to add to the extent that everyone who has been proven exposed to asbestos has been proven by the verification of this group of patients who have the same rights under the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u186	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u187	In fact, I want to apologize to all those who may be listening or watching this debate and cannot understand what we are actually doing in this Chamber. Do we bid on their lives, or do we wash our consciences, as you say, Pilately wash our hands and so forth? Who can tell me about Pilate's handwashing? Mr Germič has already said, France 1998, some countries later, the European countries have banned this production. We did this in 1996 consciously with our voice, with our pressure on the button. I was here, too, as opposed to someone who's been explaining so vehemently today. And that's what hurts me as a man. Believe it or not, I am not interested in any prosperity, no great concern for the state treasury when it comes to man and when it comes to something that is the basis of the law and knowledge of this country, which was before European practice because it has adopted regulation in this area before certain countries in Europe. From this point of view, I am truly sorry that I cannot get an answer, or that we cannot unify ourselves that everything that is dangerous to health in this case was asbestos, in another case, as I said and someone feels to explain because he is a major veterinarian to correct me in some of the indications. But at the end of the day, I stress once again that this is about things that we have to deal with. There will probably be a lot of problems at the table, a lot of other things will be professional, science will lead to a point where countries will recommend after all how long the Kyoto Agreement is being talked about, about some of the discussions that are weekly - I follow them through the media at home, both in the world and so on. With all these things, it's only right that we agree. Since this first article and the first amendment are, in fact, vital, most important to this law, it is likely that this debate is so long with him. I think it would be right to make a statement at this point and then all the discussion is still subordinate, because the law will be substantially tried if this amendment is not supplemented.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u188	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich. Because there are no more debaters on this Article. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Proposing amendments to the amendment is simply an exercise of common interest. Then there could also be populism for the government, which mentioned in December 2004 as the starting point that it would include the inhabitants in the drafting of the law, or that it would be populism to report to the Minister of Mags. A trifle who, in response to my question here in this Chamber, has said that they are thinking and that the population and environmental aspects of asbestos diseases will also be included in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u190	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The previous speaker on my right, Mr Jerovšek, said that otherwise the law would be fine if it did not have such extremely sharp amendments, if they were slightly softer, realistic and acceptable. I guess what I'm thinking is acceptable. But here - Mr Minister and representative of the government - the key question is what can be acceptable. What can be more acceptable when we talk about sickness, and what is less? Could the disease be less disease, and could it be more disease? I personally believe that this law, or specifically this amendment, is a test of what has been said in recent days or in recent weeks. Mr Janez Janša on the future and on the development of Slovenia is on the test. Dear colleagues from the coalition, because we do not have these problems in the opposition, please tell us whether you can make an agreement between you that will be justified towards Slovenian society and potentially ill people who will be ethical, moral and have enough social sense. Only these three categories are important for Slovenia in the context of the future and development offer. Are we ethical, social, moral, and compassionate enough for those who have come into a disease situation without actually being guilty of anything? Because they served daily bread and were subjected to a situation that was perhaps not known at the time when it was too late? And unfortunately, this situation will have an impact for quite some time in the future, as the deadline and the possibility of illness are likely for the next 10, 14 years, and not with small numbers - as I understand - in Europe, 400 thousand potential diseases and 23 thousand potential diseases in Slovenia. In short, Mr Drobnic, I remember you a lot in the previous term. You have been full of heart, good, open, desire that the Slovenes and the Slovenes are good, that they are protected, that they are healthy, because this is the condition of their potential successful future residences. Today you can show what you once wanted.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u192	Thank you. Mrs. Pecanova, you've raised your hand, but there's not much time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u193	Only a brief message for all present and, of course, for Mr Jerovsk, that I sent him a letter through Mr Petan's e-mail saying that I did not write and publish an answer to the citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u194	Thank you. Anyone else on Article 1? Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Of course, I am following this debate through. I hope, of course, that the representative of the proposer will also come to the debate on the first article, but the fact is something. I can't support this amendment. If the applicant has decided on the concept, Mrs Pečanova mentioned earlier that someone has pointed out that this is an example of how to approach the issue of occupational diseases. That was me. This is some kind of pilot approach, how to understand a professional disease, how to define it and how to cure it. There will have to be full of such or general approaches in this country. This approach is unique in this regard. Like some kind of test. But it is true that, as such a concept, it does not interfere with the question on which, today, we all want to see it resolved. I'd say a reduction in the life functions of the population, which was exposed, is similar to that of the asbestos workers. This must be resolved on a different basis in this case by a different approach or other law under another law or any other law. A different approach must be found if we are to preserve this concept as a concept of law that regulates the issue of occupational disease and defines all the consequences associated with the occurrence of occupational disease. Unfortunately, we cannot absorb such an amendment into this concept. Then we must change the title of the law if we are to set up what all debaters would like to place today. I am not against this alone, then it must be decided that this concept is not at all true that the law, as such subject to it, cannot at all be regarded as a comprehensive law that solves the issue of everyone who has fallen ill on the basis of asbestos exposure. I say, as far as the surrounding population is concerned, that the population must be resolved if we have decided to propose such a concept in a second approach, on a second basis. It's just this method. And another is if we make this law again some misplaced material that will have practical problems. I was glad that it finally came after a long time after the issue of the resolution of occupational diseases. I see a good marriage like that. But it is true that this amendment does not judge him. This issue needs to be resolved on a different basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u196	Thank you. Since it is no more, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u197	Thank you so much for saying that. As a representative of the government, I understand today's discussion as a contribution and a commitment to solving the issues and problems of asbestos patients of all those who have discussed today. In fact, it is possible to arrange for a category that will have a different position than other similar patients. In fact, this law defines a different character, a better, more favourable right for a specific category of persons. I also highlighted this in the presentation. However, why we have prepared a special law for the asbestos category and provided a greater scope than for other patients, for cancers or similar diseases of different origins as well as environmental origins. This, of course, raises an immediate question as to why we have decided on such a concept. This is the concept of the approach of occupational disease and all it entails: the identification of a occupational disease, the status of disability, which is again specifically defined in this law, does not apply to the general law on pension and disability insurance and the acquisition of rights in relation to disability. This law gives asbestos patients a more favourable position vis-à-vis all other patients. That's to say all those who have acquired a professional disease. We also touch on the issue of compensation, where there is a more favourable relationship. For who? More favourable in terms of the procedure of the patient until, in short, the person who caused this. And also a more favourable situation for the one who caused the disease, which is called the cause of the disease. So, a company, an economic company that has produced and processed and I don't know how else to put it, this is a substance that causes the disease. What about this environmental issue? Undoubtedly, anyone under the general rules who has suffered such a disease may claim compensation from an alleged cause. Each of those who have become ill, anyone who has been sick of such a disease, has the right under the Health Insurance Act to receive treatment and is undoubtedly associated with his or her work also with the right to pension and disability insurance if, of course, there are consequences of incapacity to work due to this disease. Well, not everyone who's sick is without rights. But I have to ask myself, when we talk about justice, as it has been exposed several times, are we ethical, are we social, are we solidarity in terms of symmetric positions, if cancer occurs for this reason or for another reason? We have determined by this law that patients who have suffered from this disease will be in a better position than others. Of course, the question is, How much more, how much more? This assessment is offered by the government. But it's up to you. The government has explained that this is a matter of proportionality, of economy and also of proper ethical conduct according to some general and comparable criteria. Everything that has been achieved in Europe regarding the level of compensation is also comparable. That's what we can say, even if we take into account our earnings, our wages. Then it's a business relationship. That's the way it is. The relationship to the provision of pension and disability insurance rights is similar. Why don't you go into this wider circle? At first, we had a thought. In view of the fact that this is confirmed on the Commission, mainly by two criteria, that this disease has occurred, i.e. that it appears as a symptom. And second, another criterion must be laid out, which must be met, that someone has worked in such an environment. Both criteria must be met. And if we let this go to the entire Slovenian level, and even given where the Slovenian winds are blowing, local, then, I don't know, regional, we'd be in serious trouble and we'd do a different wrong. This proposal also takes into account a more benevolent approach, to whom everyone is subject in this law. First category where plaques, pleural and diffuse thickenings, weeds. Aetiology shows that these are relatively large, but according to some estimates, only 20% of those who are provoked, who are stimulated by asbestos, and 80% of those others. That's a lot of hard to confirm. This is also what experts say whether it is a direct link or not. However, our country, our proposal goes this way. Other countries do not have this definition. So we went better for the benefit of these patients, whom we certainly understand are in severe distress and therefore we are obliged to respond in an appropriate manner. But we have defined this on the principle of responsibility. What is the connection between these articles? Yes, they're related to the amendments. This is likely to finally be assessed by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. But the amendment to Article 1 adds a professional text and others. In Article 2, the words 'in the workplaces' are deleted. So the job is excluded, it's connected to it. The concept of the law builds everything on occupational diseases. Article 3 and the amendment referred to in Article 2, other than perhaps Article 4, is also a professional disease under Article 4 of the amendment. The words 'or other' shall be added to Article 5 of the first paragraph by the word 'professional'. Article 6, the words "and others" shall be added to the first paragraph. Article 7, second exposure disease. Article 8 proposes organisations of persons affected by asbestos. It is therefore not directly linked because it is a matter for the participation of individual members of society. In Article 10, professional or other. And in Section 12 of Professionals. The government has decided on such a concept of law and we advocate that this is a good basis and a good approach. It would be good for us to adopt this law as soon as possible. Life will probably bring a lot of things, including the profession, including science. Not only in the asbestos field, but also in other areas where, in principle of proportionality, we are likely to have to respond to the cores of suffering, because of the disease, because of other people's cancers, due to environmental substances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u198	Thank you. This concludes the debate on Article 1 and brings us to the debate on Article 2 and the amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups of Social Democrats and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Who wants to discuss Article 2 and the amendments? Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u199	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that we are running out of time, I would like to quote the expert opinion presented on the Committee once again in support of the arguments already presented to the amendment to Article 1 and in view of the fact that Article 2 is now being amended to record the rights under this Act. For here today we are told that the discussion is going on because of populism, likeness, political voting or - I don't know - any disqualification. That doesn't seem fair to me. I've always tried to talk to arguments myself. Now again, I quote what was said by Dr. Dodič Fikfak on the committee: "So asbestos diseases show us the following: mesothelioma, which is the only correct, accurate diagnosis of exposure shows the following image according to the latest data. There is no doubt that it is growing in the Soča Valley of Mesothelioma and that unfortunately it will reach its height around 2025 if we do not behave rationally. So it points to the conduct of all those responsible. There is a very similar picture in Maribor. Very similar in Ljubljana to Domžal. The thing that concerns us is the emergence of a number of mesotholiomas, which we are currently exploring in the Trbovlje swimming pool from 1994 to 2002. This means it will be very difficult to find locations, where and where this exposure reaches. That's why this amendment, this amendment that changes the second paragraph, talks about it this way." And Dr. Fikfak continues: "I feel like the patients I have are very unfair to avoid directly proven environmental disease, so environmental mesotheliomas are considered. I don't get caught in a cough but like a disease, like a mesothelioma caused by environmental exposure." And he goes, "People of God, this isn't about thousands of people." Specifies the numbers, lists the numbers when you read us the collection of political voices and I don't know what. From 1964 to 2002, we have 365 cases of mesothelioms throughout Slovenia. The same number is also found in lung cancers that are counted. So far, 40 cases have been reported because everyone else has died. The surrounding mesotheliomas are in the Soccer Valley so far, according to my behavior, three. So, we're talking about numbers again. The number of the profession and no disease will be recognised unless it is verified by an interdisciplinary group composed of experts on a proposal from the Ministry of Health. And of course here, at this point, of course, after we talk about the concept of this law, we come to that question again. We have already had the opportunity on the committee to change the concept, because the amendments tabled on the committee are repeated today. And today we would no longer talk about the changed concept that is here today before the plenary session. Of course, it seems very unfair to me by the minister, when he says, we've prepared ours and you'll decide. And then you wonder why you're always having this controversial debate here in Parliament if the government could hear those who would naturally debate and have something to say essential earlier. So we had an impact on our hearing and perhaps today the concept of this law would be different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u200	Thank you. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Look, Mr Germič, I would very much like to know on the committee what rational behaviour means or the indication of an expert, if you don't behave rationally, will do so. These experts should finally tell us what rational behavior is. How should we act as a society, as a government, as Members, so that we can approach ourselves rationally? I'm sure when this law came into existence, that the actors of this law had to, for God's sake, go into all the expertise when there was little, I'd say, the face for writing in the articles. I would also like these experts to serve us laymen with some rational thinking about how we should understand this.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u202	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 2 and the amendments to Article 2? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment to Article 4 proposed by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 5 and on the two amendments to Article 5 proposed by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 6 and on the amendment of the same parliamentary groups. Mr. Bevk, I'm afraid you're running out of time. Excuse me? Sorry! I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 7 and on the amendment of the same groups of Members to Article 7. No one wants to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 8 and on the two amendments of the same parliamentary groups. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u203	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment extends the number of members of the Interdepartmental Commission from number 4 to number 5, with a new member proposed by the organisations of asbestos-affected persons. I think that, unless the other amendments which you consider to be interfering with the concept of this law are already adopted, this amendment is in no way prejudice to the concept of this law and has also been rejected by the committee for reasons that are not comprehensible. Why? Look at the composition of this commission, one member proposed by the Minister responsible for the work, one from the Ministry of Health, one from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and one from the members propose companies referred to in Article 2 of this Law or from the company which are their legal successors. The Interdepartmental Commission shall conduct communication procedures for the payment of compensation and the recognition of the right to a disability pension. I also find it very wise and rational to have one member in this interdepartmental group that runs the communication procedures, including representatives of the organisation of all asbestos victims. Why? For in Article 10, we are talking about the procedure of communication. We are talking about the fact that a person who has been diagnosed with a occupational disease is professional in relation to the text that is now in the amended bill requesting compensation must agree with the amount of compensation. And of course, I think it makes sense that a member of the sick group is involved. For if the injured person, the person with whom the occupational disease has been established, does not agree, he has the right under this law, in accordance with Article 5 of this Law, to bring an action before the competent court. In my view, it makes a lot of sense, because I wish there were as few such actions as possible. In order to ensure that as many different interests as possible can be reconciled at the time of the communication and, in so doing, the interests of those who are entitled to this compensation under this Act, in accordance with the verification of the Interdisciplinary Group, are also justified. Therefore, I think it is very important that this Commission should extend from four members to five members, because in this case, I am sure that the agreements concluded would be significantly more, significantly more to the satisfaction of the persons who have been sick and who are applying compensation. And in this way, in my view, the number of actions before the competent court could be substantially reduced. Because time is a very important element in patients who suffer from asbestos. And as legislators, we should do everything in our power to prevent or minimize all those procedures that would lead to conflict. And extending the Commission from four members to five members, thus adding another member proposed by organisations affected by asbestos, is an important step towards this goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u204	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 8 and the amendment to this Article? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. Mr. Brenčič, until article 8? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I would expect a representative of the proposer to answer these questions because he well knows what the content of this commission is intended for. And this content is adapted to the system or commission layout. I am afraid that, as long as we extend this Interdepartmental Commission on this basis, there will be much more legal disputes. Because I claim that the individual approach as set out in the law is an individual approach to the beneficiary to the claim for compensation. And now, who should represent him, this individual? Is it his lawyer or someone from, I don't know, an imaginary guy like the Asbestos Society or a union? However, the purpose of this Commission is to reach as early as possible an agreement between the taxpayers for the payment of compensation as defined by the law in Article 6. The shortest route of coordination between the debtor, the state and society is said to be the successor. This is the basis of this Commission and to determine as soon as possible on the basis of an interdisciplinary group of experts when a health disability is established, that this beneficiary is entitled to retirement under more favourable conditions. Everything we're going to involve in this interdepartmental committee, some imaginary representative, is going to get us things, I'm sure, complicated. Most often to the detriment of a direct beneficiary who will play a role in this committee. However, he will not give it until he has been confirmed by a peer review team. However, for what amount of compensation has already been set out in Article 6. So that I am concerned that we will not make this approach more difficult or even go to the detriment of the beneficiary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u206	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. Mr. Secretary, you've reached out. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u207	Thank you very much. We believed that Members understood the intention of this second paragraph of Article 8. It is a four-member committee of debtors who are obliged under this law to pay either compensation on the basis of a procedure but does not include beneficiaries. And, of course, this is not a commission that would decide on height and anything else, but only on the process of harmonising the debtors as to how they would pay. That is why, before this does not impede the execution of the proceedings, the company's representative cannot be on this disability committee, otherwise this does not apply to this article, which has even been presented in the negotiation and coordination process with stakeholders. This is certainly not possible in order to include representatives. For he who pretends to be disabled cannot be a member of the commission. I hope the explanation is sufficient.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u208	Thank you. Mr. Germich, until article 8. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u209	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, but Minister, you've completely failed with your discussion of the content I've been talking about. Firstly, we are not dealing with any disability committee here, but we are talking about an inter-ministerial commission. And I'm going to read Article 8 one more time. It states: For communication procedures, the government appoints an interdepartmental commission for payment. And I read article 10, which says, "The Republic of Slovenia is covering a compensation of 60% of the agreement from a certain amount." The agreement has been reached. When is the agreement reached, and the Interdepartmental Commission leads it? The agreement shall be reached if the economic operator referred to in the preceding paragraph agrees to cover the remaining 40% of the amount of compensation, while the investor or the injured party agrees with such a certain amount of compensation. And what happens if there is no such agreement? What happens if the agreements don't come to an agreement? It is certain that the proceedings will either be in progress or we will come to court. And this amendment has been discussed many times also with all topics coming from either society or from the union. We're not talking about who it's gonna be. We're not saying it's gonna be a lawyer. There will be someone here who will also be in the interest of reaching this agreement, but who in the government might be able to represent the views of those who will have to conclude an agreement as a result. For if this agreement is not available, the procedure - as I stress once again - will be in the dead course. Time for these patients is a key element, because if the time is too long, it is from this address, then the address book on one side may already be unknown. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u210	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u211	Thank you very much. I think my friend Germich is right. If we did not reach out to the Committee in Article 10 and commit the Government to draw up the criteria and conditions under which the debtor would be subject, that is, the legal successor of the company in question, to exempt or reduce its share, in which case there would be a lot of disputes. At least that's what I heard. But now that the government is somehow committed to giving the criteria, it must give them at least by the time this committee is set up, I think there should be very few disputes on this basis, at least for the basic purpose of this Interdepartmental Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u212	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. Anyone else for Article 8? I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 10 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Social Democrats and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 12 and on the amendment of the same groups of Members to this Article. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 16 and the amendment of the same parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I also conclude the debate on this article and this amendment. Before completing or terminating this point, I would ask that the Legislative and Legal Service deliver an opinion on the content of the notes referred to in Article 1 and the first two amendments to Article 2 of this Act. Mr. Rogell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u213	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Upon request, the legislative and legal service shall deliver the following opinion. The amendment referred to in point 1 to 2 of Article 2 by which the words "in the workplaces" are deleted in the first paragraph shall not amend the first paragraph to such an extent that the amended text does not refer to the amended provision of Article 1(1). In fact, the amended first paragraph of Article 2 in this regard provides that the rights under this Act are justified by persons who have been employed in companies where they have been exposed to asbestos. In our view, therefore, since this amended provision concerns employees, it is reasonable to consider that these persons are covered by a basic, non-administrative text of the first paragraph of Article 1, which therefore relates to occupational diseases due to asbestos exposure. Therefore, in our view, the amendment referred to in Article 2, paragraph 2, is not substantively related to the amendment to Article 1, and it would be advisable to vote specifically on it. As regards the amendments referred to in point 2 of Article 2, the text of the second paragraph of Article 2 shall be amended to such an extent that the amended text also includes persons living in the business premises of companies where asbestos or asbestos products have been processed or stored. In this case, it is not about employees. Thus, it could not be considered as a professional disease, but as a result of exposure to asbestos for others or other diseases, by extending the proposed amendment to the first paragraph. Therefore, we believe that this remark correctly points out that the amendment to Article 1 is substantively linked to the amendment under Article 2(2). If the amendment to Article 1 is not adopted, the amendment referred to in Article 2 shall be irrelevant and shall not be voted on.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u214	Thank you. We got an explanation. Here you go, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u215	Regardless of whether anyone thinks it is a complication of the procedure, but I would ask the presidents in the future that, when asked for reasons on what a reference to the law service means, that is, before the debate on amendments and the whole content - I agree with one of the discussers who said that it could also be a different concept. But it's important to know that the board has written a new law so to speak. In other words, he's changed all the articles except for a few irrelevant ones. It was easy for me, as a non-member of the committee from when I looked at the complementary proposal, to determine whether there was a change of concept or not. Whether it was merely a matter of taking into account the comments of the legislative service or whatever else, I suggest in future that you take into account the opinion that if a warning was given before the debate on the amendments, that the opinion of the legislative service should also be given at that time. Not after five hours or four hours and some discussions, but now we get clarifications. I don't think it's any outside of business regulation or proposal, but it's totally following what the rules of procedure are. So that, on a proposal from the Member - there were at least two proposals - it would be necessary - to give the word then to the legal service, not after four hours when the matter had passed. But I'm saying, for another time, I didn't want to complicate it before.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u216	Thank you. This concludes the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 10th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.25 hours. This concludes this agenda item. Before moving to item 5, we are moving first to item 2 of the agenda, on a proposal for a law on the participation of workers in the management of a European company, namely Article 30. Under this Article, a proposal was made for the rule of law service to deliver its opinion. I ask the legislature, Mr Mozetič, to give an opinion on this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u217	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and honourable Members! I am ahead of a difficult task because I have read the minutes, the magnetogram, but it is not quite clear what opinion the legislative and legal service is supposed to give here. It follows from the magnetogram and from the explanation of the amendment that this amendment should be necessary in order to provide certain information to workers regarding certain structural changes in the European shareholder society. Now there are a number of questions that are probably questionable before the answer is accurate enough. Look, the amendment proposes to be placed in article 30 of the law. This Article is contained in a chapter on the participation of workers in statutory management. In short, it is placed in those provisions of the law already referred to in this Article 18 [[this is a number of these articles]] discusses when the participation of workers must be regulated, even if there is no agreement. It is primarily an agreement in all cases and each time a European shareholder company is established, it must negotiate and possibly reach an agreement on the cooperation of workers. However, the participation of workers is, as you know, composed of information and codecision. Now this amendment is a provision when it comes to codecision. It sets out the criteria for when this must be in European equity society. In this respect, it is not clear in what sense this amendment is being tabled and what structural changes should occur when abuse might occur or where there would be a risk of abuse of these rights and information. From this point of view, this amendment governs something else, which is regulated in this Article and in this chapter. Now, if this is about information - and this has been discussed - the question then relates to Article 22. However, Article 22 is in that part that speaks of information. And structural changes. Again, the question of what they influence is asked. So it is impossible to answer these questions clearly as to what this amendment should have been in terms of the comments and the debate it had been. In the light of the reasons for the amendment, reference is made to Article 11 of the Directive. Article 11 of the Directive states that States are obliged to provide certain measures to prevent abuses. I think the whole law is about that. In particular, this whole chapter, which sets out when, even if they do not agree on when workers must be involved. From this point of view, I don't see what abuse would be like. The second sentence of this amendment introduces an assumption. You can. In marriage, that's not the issue. The law can determine the presumption, but in this case it should be very precise, very clear. Because the assumption assumes that there is a violation if the opposite is not proved. Now, from this point of view - I repeat again - what structural changes would be those that would constitute an assumption, if they were made, of the assumption that it came or that the change was made for the purpose of abuse or reduction of workers' rights? From this point of view, these links, which have been discussed on these articles, are not visible in our service. Where information is provided for workers, it shall be specified. If there is a structural change - I think - in the sense that it decreases, somewhere there is a number of employees in a country that affects seats, either negotiating or here in the workers' world, then this is regulated by law. Because it is determined when and for what number of workers, what number of workers have. From this point of view, the law is regulated enough. As far as the amendment is concerned, it is not clearly set up. It is not sufficiently precise, nor positioned in the law itself, nor as content, but above all an explanation of the content of what it wants to achieve, so that it is clear what the law should then regulate and what things it should save. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u218	Thank you, Mr. Mozetich, for your explanation. I am opening the debate on Article 30 and the amendment of the Social Democrats to this Article. Mr. Secretary has called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u219	Thank you so much for saying that. With this amendment, we have had some difficulties in how it is placed and how it is understood in a coherent way. We have already said in the debate that we could understand it in terms of the link to Article 22. But if the link is to Article 22, which speaks of information, then this provision is in the substantive sense narrower. Closer rights of workers. It will then be necessary to decide whether the rights of workers are being infringed. However, if we are talking about codecision, non-separation, the seats are linked to the third paragraph of Article 32, where it clearly states. In this case, the law is clear on what it's like to change. If the number of members in the management or control bodies changes, the Council of Workers shall decide on a new number of workers taking into account the preceding two paragraphs of this Article. For both cases, the law is clear that there would be no violation or abuse. In this sense, this article is superfluous for the government. In connection with Article 22, it even strengthens rights. We have therefore also expressed the view that the proposal of this amendment does not agree with the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u220	Thank you. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on this Article and also on this point. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 10th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.25 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the law on protection against natural and other accidents. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The new law on protection against natural and other disasters is one of the two basic objectives of the Ministry of Defence's work in the field of protection against natural and other disasters. This is an important subsystem of national security. Following the adoption of amendments and the completion of the Fire Act, we are now proposing amendments and additions to the bill of review. There is also an amendment to the law on protection against fire and protection against drowning. We want to fully align the norm with the situation achieved, modernise this regime, and ensure that the most uninterrupted development and functioning of the system of protection against natural and other disasters is carried out. So, what are the key points in the Law on Amendments and Complements of the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters? In particular, I would like to point out that we have more comprehensively regulated the status of members of civil protection, which, under this law, will also be carried out by civil servants in the field of protection and resolution during the actual performance of the tasks, to this end, by members of relief units who will provide assistance to foreign countries and others. Following the example of defence reform, we introduce the Civil Protection Service Treaty Institute, but this institution in the civil protection segment is more flexible and selective than the Slovenian Armed Forces Treaty Reserve. Instead of comprehensive protection and resolution plans, we introduce the possibility of planning only individual protection measures or tasks, as well as measures developed by NATO members to respond to crises. We are also updating all provisions relating to the information and alarm system by increasing the use of belts and public records funded by public funds. We also took into account the initiative of the municipalities to gradually move the public alarm system into the country. That's how we plan to do it in five years. In order to ensure that the response to the change in sources of threat can be adjusted, the rescue and assistance tasks are listed only in new cases. The same applies to civil protection units and services. The law regulates more appropriately the powers of intervention managers and commanders in connection with emergency tasks when they are in action. In particular, in cooperation with the representatives of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, we have refined the solutions governing the organisation of protection and resolution forces in the municipality by building on the basis of hazard assessments on the capacity of professional and, in particular, voluntary rescue services, specific economic services. We only organise these tasks for individual narrowly specialized tasks, so these tasks would be carried out by units and civil protection services. This will, of course, result in a revision of the criteria for organising protection and rescue forces, which will allow a rational organisation of rescue and assistance forces in municipalities where there are significant differences in options and available resources. The law also regulates the provision of assistance to other countries in natural and other disasters. It also regulates certain labour and legal issues arising from the nature of the work of public servants in the field of protection and resolution. The law is coordinated in all fundamentals of solutions. We've done a thorough inter-resort coordination. We have agreed with the Community of Slovene municipalities. The Law was also supported by the Association of Slovene Municipalities. We coordinated and aligned with the Fire Union of Slovenia, the Mountain Rescue Service, the Red Cross and other NGOs. So I suggest you confirm the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u222	Thank you to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, Mr Žnidaršić. The draft law was treated by the Defence Committee as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Anton Anderlich, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u223	Your Honor! The Defence Committee considered the above-mentioned law in the judgment that, given that it is a matter of matter which the National Assembly must first send to all the municipalities and to the association and the community of municipalities that you have had an opportunity in this longer discussion also to take note of this issue. The Committee also took this into account in its work. He received comments from the Municipality of Slovenj Gradec, the Municipality of Ljubljana, the Municipality of Miklavž in the Dravsko Field, the Communities and the Associations of Municipalities, both - to say the Czech organisations in this area. He received comments from the Commission on Local Self-Government and Regionalism of the Council of State, as well as from the Commissions of the State Council on the political system. He has also received comments from some eminent representatives, by those who have been or are professionally involved in this issue, that they have already participated in these discussions through associations or communities, but have also made some comments themselves, i.e. that they have not all been taken into account in the coordination process and have also received a word from the Committee. Four amendments have been tabled by Mr Aurelio Juri, who has actually taken up the comments of the municipalities and individuals who, as I said, have participated in the meeting of the committee and are professionally engaged in the problems mentioned. However, they are also involved in this work. The Committee adopted 8 amendments on a proposal for a legislative legal service as a correction of a poorly prepared law in those areas where these corrections were necessary. He did not accept the four amendments of Mr Aurelius Yuri. He accepted two amendments as an amendment to the committee, either when it comes to rescue from water or drowning, primarily to better define the question: In what way could missing persons also be looked for when, in fact, the very time of resolution in the event of a natural disaster has passed? The two amendments were proposed at the Committee's own meeting by a member who was an alternate member instead of one Member. The committee understood the need. Government representatives also agreed that this should be incorporated into the law. You have such an amended law under consideration today. I believe he'll be supported as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u224	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Aurelio Juri will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u225	Thank you, President. Good bye to all of you! The existing law on protection against natural and other disasters has, according to the dynamics of the subject of its attention, in particular the nature of the most venerable age, 12 years. He's put through, as we've already heard, a lot of earthquakes, captures, floods, floods, reptiles, fires, droughts. We're already on avian influenza. Climate change is accelerating the pace. It is time to check the effectiveness and appropriateness of this law or system governed by law or to improve legislation in accordance with the experience gained and the new situation. These include, for sure, the fact that the structure of the responsible and the actors of protection against natural and other disasters at local level has changed radically over the 12 years. From the 60 congregations in those days, we drew 193. We'll add a good tenth in a week, maybe even more. While we have been preparing for as long as the beard of the law, for the introduction of another, this is the regional level of local self-government, for which we sincerely hope that the Social Democrats will finally come to the world in this mandate. At that time, we became members of the European Union and NATO. As we have heard from the introduction, the bill’s proposal for a novel set two goals. First, to update organisational, functional and other disaster protection solutions so that the system can respond in a timely and more efficient and rational manner to different types of accidents, including modern sources of threat, or to provide adequate protection, rescue and assistance. The second objective is to allow for longer-term protection against natural and other disasters through systemic solutions as an important system of national security. As we know, representatives of the municipalities, members of the Working Group on Protection and Rescue have also participated in the drafting of the proposal and have drawn up a number of comments during the coordination period. We are pleased to see that most of these have been taken into account. However, some questions remain open or not fully resolved. In particular in the field of the hierarchy of competences and decision-making and the use of budgetary resources to carry out tasks in this field. In order to find better answers here too, we also proposed some corrections to the Defence Committee at the initiative of the municipalities of Slovenia, but unfortunately failed. In spite of this, we do not renounce the amendment of the law. We fully believe that it is introducing some important improvements and that it is therefore also worth our vote, our support, which does not mean that the task of the government is over. As dynamic as the changes in nature are, let us not forget that, above all, because of the human's inappropriate attitude towards it, it must be as dynamic when they turn into disasters and disasters and it is imperative to protect our lives and assets from them, our response to them. Therefore, the dialogue between the government, the municipalities, the relevant services and other actors in the system in search of all better solutions should continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u226	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Mr Drago Koren will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u227	Thank you, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present in this hall, on this deserted afternoon, when the desire to be released is, in fact, a very important and challenging law. We have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters. In the New Slovenia Group of Members - The Christian People's Party, we are aware that this is a very important law and we support it. The security of people today is one of the most important values and rights that we rightly wish to enforce against the country. This is particularly true for protection against the consequences of natural and all other accidents. We don't even know a lot of accidents. Every day, we read about black chronicles that describe daily traffic accidents, fires, mountain accidents, and others in which individuals lose their lives or become disabled or something like that. That is why it is so much more stressful when we are involved in such an accident alone. This is all the more so for major natural disasters. Slovenia is no exception here. The threat to our space is great, varied and lasting. Pursuing greater and greater security from natural and other disasters is the desire and need of each and every one of us. On the other hand, this is the task of each organised environment and of course of the countries. Therefore, protection against natural and other disasters has an important place in our country's national security system. This is all the more so because new and new sources of threat are emerging in the modern world. There's a man behind them a lot of times. In today's global world, processes, threats are not avoided by any country, no community. We need to adapt the basic legal solutions to today's and future sources of threats, new tasks and needs. We must take into account more than ten years of experience on the use of existing solutions. Further development of individual parts of the system should be possible. We need to update our civic duties. We need to stress even more the link between voluntary, professional and compulsory action in the case of various rescue services and units. We must make sense of the principles of crisis management developed by members of North Atlantic integration and whose full-fledged members are now us. Changes are also needed to increase efficiency, rationality and reduce response times to different accidents. The objective is known and summarised under the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters. In the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party Group, we are convinced that the above requirements and needs are being addressed, if not in whole or in part, by this law that we are considering today. It is on all of us citizens and citizens, however, that our daily conduct does not cause accidents that threaten us and others around us. By acting in a responsible manner, we can avoid many accidents. The education of children and young people must also cover protection against all kinds of accidents. Members of the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party are convinced that the proposed marriage solutions are good and we will be happy to support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u228	Thank you, Mr. Root. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u229	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The bill, which we are considering today, aims to fully regulate the system of protection and rescue in the Republic of Slovenia. We can generally assess that the area of protection and rescue in Slovenia is rapidly and well developed. The bill introduces some important innovations under our Civil Protection Service Treaty in particular, a uniform and more effective system of information and alarming and lays the groundwork for a more coordinated operation of the various services in the event of accidents requiring protection and resolution directly on the ground. The basis for this is greater cooperation and integration of the various competent services. As mentioned above, one of the innovations is also the Civil Protection Service Treaty. This Treaty solves the problems of members of civil protection at the time they perform their duties and is therefore not present in the workplaces in the collectives where they have a contract of employment. At the same time, this provision and this Treaty will also define the obligation of civil protection members, which is also necessary, as members of civil protection also receive certain training and consequently assume responsibility for their obligations as members of civil protection. Thus, in our view, the regulated status of members of civil protection will further contribute to its better competence and effectiveness in its work. A single public alarm system is very important for the effective functioning of civil protection. We expect that the work of all competent organisations and services will be even more coordinated on the basis of this new law, and that better human security and property will be ensured in the event of natural or other accidents that may affect us. The bill also provides for certain financial consequences. At the same time, it is worth noting that in recent years in Slovenia we have witnessed a large number of natural disasters, which are due in particular to the irresponsible conduct of us, people, in the environment. However, the increase in these disasters, in our firm belief, fully justifies the need for additional resources to enable the implementation of the proposed legal provisions and, consequently, to ensure greater security or reduction of the negative consequences when accidents of any form occur. For the Members of the Slovenian People's Party, it is very important that the proposed text has tried to align the proposed text as much as possible with the association of municipalities, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. In addition to the municipalities, many organisations responsible for the protection and resolution in their areas throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia also gave their opinion on the Defence Committee. We can say that there have been many different opinions on this law and that the complementary proposal of the law that we are considering today represents good and quality solutions. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposal to amend and supplement the law on protection against natural and other disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u230	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u231	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! Dear representatives of the Ministry of Defense! In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the solutions offered by the Government's proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents will achieve long-term protection against natural and other disasters, and to ensure a timely, rational and effective response of the system to different types of disasters. Slovenia, with its geological structure, landscape and climate diversity, and geographical location, presents an exceptional living space that is threatened by various natural disasters: earthquakes, floods, weather conditions, beaches, erosion and so on. In connection with the environment and lifestyle, diseases typical of modern civilization, such as today's bird flu problem, are spreading. The consequences are different and serious: loss of life, various injuries, inability to work and perform tasks, and high costs for treatment and rehabilitation. In such situations, society must be well organised. It needs different professions and voluntary rescue services, developed humanitarian activities, well-organised and trained civil protection and public participation, in which DeSUS Members are assessed as enabling this. We stress, however, that there is an urgent need for good coordination of all activities in situations where rapid and professional intervention is necessary. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the proposed regulation of the status of members of civil protection and the introduction of contractual relations in the field of civil protection and the introduction of an update of the single and public information and alarm system. With regard to the definition of the extent of the protection of rescue and assistance in the event of natural and other disasters, we believe that it is sufficiently thoughtful and transparent. We also agree with the proposed arrangements for liability or reimbursement of the proportionate share of intervention costs in the event of negligence, incapacity or inadequate equipment. The proposal also introduces objective responsibility, irrespective of the cause and responsibility for the accident, of participants in certain activities. We are confident that the government will think carefully about what activities it will include in this framework. In our view, it is necessary to maintain a system of protection of rescue and aid based on volunteering, as it is a well-developed system that is particularly suitable for smaller municipalities. In addition, the cheapest system for responding to different types of accidents is the one. In doing so, we point in particular to the problem that arises in practice in relation to the employer, the worker, the volunteer, because, despite the good legal arrangements of these relations, there is a violation of the rights of volunteers, and we are therefore assessing the need to devote a little more time to this issue in the future. With regard to the area under consideration, Members of the DeSUS would also like to point out that it is necessary to strive for the idea of returning to the regular educational process at least the minimum knowledge of self-protection and mutual protection that each individual should have. This is how we appeal to the Ministry of Education, because we see the real possibility of this idea in a special selection course in primary school. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the proposed law will update the basic solutions and that only these will adapt to today's state and needs, so we will also support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u232	Thank you, Mr. Yelena. Mrs. Maria Pozsonec. Ms Maria Possonec will present the views of the delegation of the National Communities. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u233	All in attendance have a nice greeting! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Natural Disasters is necessary. Protection against natural and other disasters shall be implemented as a uniform and autonomous national security subsystem of the State, coordinated and linked to other subsystems at the level of local or wider self-government communities, regions and countries. It is achieved through the active role of the State in international organisations, in cooperation with neighbouring countries and the provision of assistance to other countries in the event of disasters. It also includes protection against environmental disasters, adverse weather conditions such as cold, cold, drought and so on, the use of weapons or means of mass destruction, and other terrorist attacks and the implementation of protection and rescue in crisis situations. And what if we find in crisis situations that civil protection and resolution do not have the necessary tools and resources. This has happened a number of times in recent floods, and therefore the basic objectives of the law are to modernise organisational, functional and other disaster protection solutions so that the system can respond in a timely and effective manner to various types of disasters, including modern sources of threat, and to ensure effective protection, disaster relief and assistance, and to complement the legal solution by ensuring long-term development of protection against natural and other disasters as an important national security subsystem, in line with other subsystems. And finally, when should we take into account that human winged thing that someone can give immediately twice? Meanwhile, other droughts in 2004 are still not remedied, and no houses have been saved by the beach in Posoč and could still be continued. So the law has its purpose and its right to solve these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Poxon. Mr Robert Hrovat will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u235	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Defence, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, which is currently under consideration, has its basis in a law already adopted in the longer term in 1994. Some activities of specific areas of protection, rescue and assistance in the event of natural and other disasters are currently more fully regulated than is taken into account in the existing basic law. The fundamental objectives of the amendment and the completion of the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters are two. For the first time, organisational, functional and other disaster protection solutions need to be updated, and secondly, legal solutions need to be complemented by ensuring the long-term development of protection against natural and other disasters as an important national security subsystem. The fact is that the operational part of the protection against natural and other disasters represents the protection, rescue and assistance forces composed of members and members of professional, voluntary and compulsory units, services and operational units. There is a need to improve coordination and, in particular, the integration of different services and compositions and to ensure their effective operation in all situations. The actual material potential of local communities and countries must also be taken into account. For general rescue tasks, it is also necessary to train and develop professional and, in particular, voluntary firefighting to the maximum extent possible, as well as for dedicated rescue tasks, as well as for units and operational compositions of other voluntary organisations, such as mountain and cave rescue services, divers and the like. The professional performance of protection, rescue and assistance tasks should be organised only for those tasks which cannot be carried out properly or in good faith with voluntary or compulsory compositions. The gravity of preparedness and response to different types of accidents according to hazard assessments must also be in the future at local level. The capacity of local communities needs to be upgraded and assistance provided by the State at regional and national level when the consequences of an individual accident exceed the capacity of the local community. The system of protection against natural and other disasters must be legally, organisationally and functionally designed so that it can also respond to modern sources of threat, such as the use of weapons or means of mass destruction, different forms of terrorism and so on. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me conclude by mentioning that all the amendments to this law are listed and well explained in the material that has been transmitted to us. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that these changes have taken some key steps to significantly improve the security and resolution of natural and other disasters, so we will support the proposed amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u236	Thank you, Mr. Croat. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u237	Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the law. This is a law that would be best served never to be used, so that it will never come to practical realization if we can call it that. However, it is such an important marriage, for accidents never rest and must be prevented as much as possible and, of course, to remedy the consequences if they occur. Maybe the title itself is that it even limits the content that is much broader when we talk about the spirit of the law itself, when we talk about bringing together volunteering, bringing together belonging, bringing together social and moral sense to the human being, but it is in one organised way that the state has regulated and also made sure that these things can be said even in a comparable way with Europe, because we all like to refer to it, it has regulated an area that is proud of, in particular, some segments of this area when it comes, as I said, to volunteering when it comes to organizing societies, social organisations, social spheres that are actually available daily, hundreds of thousands of people participate in various things. We regret that some of the comments made by the municipalities, the community of municipalities, so to speak left and right congregations, I didn't even know that, according to this criterion, the municipalities and the mayors are dividing themselves together into an association, the other in the community, I don't know what this is about, but obviously it's Slovenian folklore, but when it comes to comments on what's what we want to see that it's arranged, the comments are quite uniform and here this sensitivity, this sensitivity by the government has not been enough. This is clearly said by the people on the committee, we have read this in letters and this is finally said by the government representative to coordinate, but it is about because there are many of these people who deal with these activities used to listen to the command when someone from the ministry or from the office says so, comments are quickly forgotten or are not repeated in some way, let it be when we discuss the law on firefighting. Thus, until the meeting of the Committee, the comments were loud, the committee and the assembly were practically quiet and firefighters appeared after the meeting, and the companies wishing to make further comments, if we are speaking from the Association of Professional Firefighters and beyond. And in that case it would not be good for things not to be heard in the future. If there are any inconsequential things, the law should be supplemented, as I said, is essential progress, the law is improved, it was needed new, it is adapted time. We know that some things are not as feasible today as they were in the past, classical civil protection as they were no longer, but it is so to speak, if I may say, an integrated system, where different groups are involved and work together in the end, operate under the same command and for the same thing, so they help to remedy the consequences of natural and, of course, other disasters that never rest. As we say, Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy, due to progress in this law, are not entirely satisfied with the comments made on the Committee and the material sent by all Members and Members of Parliament that you have received, this law has been supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u238	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since there has been no discussion on the articles on the proposed amendment, I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday, 2 March 2006, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Securities Market Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u239	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Securities Market Act contains the transposition of two directives and several other amendments. This law is mainly concerned with the implementation of two Directives, namely Directive 2003/71, on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered or admitted to trading and on amendments to Directive 2001/34. In short, there are changes to the implementation of the directives and, as I said, to some other amendments, and to the provisions of the Constitutional Court, which also required us to amend the law. With regard to Directive 2003/71, I would point out that the essential characteristics of this Directive are the obligation to publish a prospectus for the public supply of securities, and then there are certain exceptions, which is to say that certain securities are not, for example, used for an open investment fund unit. Then, the third principle - all prospectuses must comply with certain disclosure standards and a very important feature, so that the approved prospectus can be used anywhere within the European Union. These principles increase investor safety and the effectiveness of the securities market, in short, by simplifying the procedures for the sale of securities. Next. The law provides for ensuring compliance with the 2004 Constitutional Court decision. The Constitutional Court has warned us that a violation of a law defining repeated violations is not specified and is now regulated because it is established that a five-year period or three-term term means that a violation is repeated. To date, some other provisions have been made by law, opening up the possibility of changing the ownership structure of the Ljubljana Stock Exchange and its integration with other market organisers and thereby allowing its development. At the same time, the law also provides for a more transparent trade in marketable securities and provides conditions for trading in non-marketable securities. However, some of the shortcomings of the law following the last amendment are also addressed and some other provisions are added. So much for a little while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u240	Thank you to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Mag. They're branding Lavrich. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u241	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! At its 14th meeting, on 15.2., the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the market in securities submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and acceptance. We have received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which has made comments on the series of articles of the proposed law. In its opinion in principle, the Legislative and Legal Service points out that, in the interests of clarity, it would be necessary to simplify the use of individual terms when transposing a directive in the prospectus into the Slovenian legal order on the law submitted throughout the text. The service also recalls the proposed amendment to the law governing the company which is in the legislative process and could also affect the need for a rapid amendment of the Law on the Market in Securities. We have also received a letter from the Association of Securities Exchange Members, with proposals for amendments to the Committee, and from the Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for the economy, dated 14.2.2006, a concrete comment on 213th Article, which was not the subject of the proposed amendment. Meetings were attended by representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Agency for the Market in Securities, Association of Securities Exchange Members, Ljubljana Stock Exchange d.d. Ljubljana, All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders and Legal Service. Following the introduction of the proposal for a law, it was submitted by the Legislative and Legal Service that the proposed amendments to the Committee were largely overturned or taken into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. We have also discussed proposals for amendments to the securities stock exchange and adopted the amendment to Article 65, but not the others. All amendments were supported and adopted by the Committee and proposed in the light of the amendments adopted and, pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law in which amendments were adopted is prepared. The amended proposal is an integral part of this report and we propose to the National Assembly that this amendment be adopted with additional amendments. Obviously this is enough, quite a technical law, where there was no disagreement on the committee or members of the committee supported the government's professional proposals and the legislative and legal services.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u242	Thank you, Mr. Starman. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u243	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! Often, when adopting individual amendments to the law, it is noted that Slovenia is late to adopt directives into our legal system, which is not least evident in the securities market law. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that it is necessary to do the late work as soon as possible, so in this direction we will also support the efforts of the government and the coalition. The amendment to the law that we have today under consideration deals primarily with the transposition of Directive 2003/71, as well as Directive 2001/34. The proposal for a prospectus novel sets out the manner and conditions for the publication of a public offering or the admission of securities to trading. This certainly increases the safety of investors and the effectiveness of the Slovenian securities market in the securities market in EU countries, as well as of foreign investors in our country. The Securities Market Agency is also expected to contribute to greater security and transparency of the securities market, which is expected to obtain even more powers. In the event of a breach of the provisions, the Agency may suspend the procedure and make public that the issuer does not comply with the prospectus requirements. The proposed amendment also ensures respect for Constitutional Court decision No. 220. The Constitutional Court has ruled that the provisions of the current law concerning the definition of a period of repeated infringements for serious infringements of the duties of the board of stock brokers, stock brokers and members of the board of exchanges are not in accordance with the Constitution because the period is not defined. The new law provides for a period of repeated infringements for members of the board of stock exchanges and brokers for 5 years and for members of the board of exchanges for 3 mandates. An important new change is also the opening of the ownership structure of the Ljubljana Stock Exchange and its integration with other market organisers, which will undoubtedly have a positive impact on the further development of the stock exchange. The proposal for a novel provides that, under the new law, stockholders can also be natural and legal persons. Under certain conditions, they will also be able to obtain a qualified share. The new proposal also provides for mandatory reporting of well-educated investors selling and buying securities outside the market if the value exceeds 1 million tolars. The withdrawal of shares from the organised market will be significantly easier than it has been so far. The stock exchange will also allow the provision of technical services with non-marketable securities. In the New Slovenia Group - The Christian People's Party, we will support the amendment of the law because we believe it is right to meet the obligations of the directives and also because we believe that this change will improve the conditions for the operation of the Ljubljana Stock Exchange. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u244	Thank you, Mr. Testen. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u245	Mr. President, thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! The proposed law, which is the subject of today's treatment, is necessary and necessary, as, among other provisions, it also brings into Slovenian law the so-called Prospectus Directive. In the implementation of this Directive, we have been late for more than half a year in the Slovenian legal system, as it is time to incorporate this into our legislation, which has already expired on 1 July 2005. On 15 February, the draft law was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, where, at least so I think, all the amendments and also all the articles of the law were adopted or confirmed without a vote against. This points to the fact that the necessary changes will have certain positive effects in the future, in particular in the field of an effective securities market. The regulation of this area will thus facilitate and increase the security of our Slovenian investors in the securities markets of other Member States of the European Union and, at the same time, in order to increase the security of foreign investors on our securities exchange, enable or encourage further investment in us. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that the Institute for the Harmonization of Prospects for the Sale of Securities within the European Union will also help to make additional investments and thus to accelerate the development of Slovenia and the entire European Union. A new prospectus regulation will remove a number of administrative obstacles as the issuer will be able to use the approved prospectus from the competent authority throughout the European Union without obtaining consent or certifying the competent authority in another Member State of the European Union. The proposal also regulates the ownership of the Ljubljana Stock Exchange and eliminates other shortcomings in the current regulation in Slovenia. The novelty will allow the opening of ownership of the Ljubljana Securities Exchange in order to increase its efficiency and offer its services. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the proposed solution, since, in addition to the other innovations already mentioned, it is a prerequisite for the greater competitiveness of our stock exchange in the European area of brokerage. The ownership arrangement will also allow the Slovenian stock exchange to connect with other more developed markets within the European Union, which certainly brings additional advantages and provides a good basis for gaining new experience for the Slovenian stock exchange and stock exchange. The new securities market law regulates or provides for a stock exchange of certain services relating to non-marketable securities trading and provides for mandatory reporting on market securities transactions concluded outside the organised market. These solutions make it possible to operate substantially more transparently in these two areas, which will also have some positive effects on our financial market. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposal for a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u246	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In July 2004, in the Slovenian National Party, we said not to rush into the adoption of this law. We have said that this is not necessary, and we have warned that what the previous government has said is not true is a matter of increasing security and that it is not good for us to be in a hurry because of the changes that will come in connection with our integration into the European Union. That's why I mentioned it, and I have a tape here that I'm happy to say today that everything we said at the time was true. If we look at the amendments to this law, 1999, 2002, 2003, 2004 after a quick procedure and we are back with the bill here. One of the reasons we have just heard today is, of course, the implementation of directives, which is most important, including increased investor safety, which has already been argued that the previous amendment has taken place. Whatever the case, the securities market is, of course, expanding to the European market and it is right for the state to intervene in the drafting of the law, to embody the required European directive and, of course, to be concerned, because, after all, we can say that so many changes can also be due to concerns about improving the law. The second thing I am going to say is that we are extremely disturbed in the Slovenian National Party, but without offense, extremely disturbed, is that we have heard a little earlier about the explanation of the position of the mother labour body that some articles have been amended, many participants, many who have been involved in the drafting of this law have been alerted to them, and Mr President said that there have been many articles that were not the subject of the novel. I mean, it's not good to say that if someone is making an amendment or wants to change something, but this is not the subject of a novel, because believe me, even in this mandate, all those articles that were not the subject of the novel and that were not taken into account in the drafting of this novel, that we will recast this law on these same articles and then, of course, include those articles in the new novel. In order to change the law on amendments and amendments to the securities market law in this mandate, I would argue on behalf of the Slovenian National Party also because, in all the laws that are changing, we have already spoken a lot today, some have warned and warned that it is necessary to wait for the law on companies to be covered by the law and to amend, for example, the law on amendments and additions to the law on the securities market, the laws that we have already discussed, and not least, that this really confirms, of course, the developments in adoption, when we talked about mortgage and credit bonds, and found that the market of securities is unfortunately still unregulated in some way, despite the novels that are before us today. We are certainly of the opinion in the Slovenian National Party that, if it is already a novelty before us and given that it has followed a regular procedure, and we are convinced that much effort and work have been put into this novel, we will not oppose the amendment in the Slovenian National Party. However, we would like to tell both the drafters and us in our decision that today is a novel, which we will talk about as soon as possible and in the future, let us, however, adopt a company law, clear it up and design it well and then adopt other acts that are so much more bound to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u248	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr Franz Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Retired.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u249	Mr. President. Honourable Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the government's proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the securities market law. The government proposal for a law covers the transposition of the European Directive, although it redefines the prospectus on public securities supply, in particular shares. Following a single prospectus or so-called securities passport, it will allow Slovenian issuers of securities to acquire capital across the EU without obtaining additional consent and setting high disclosure standards. The proposed amendments and additions to the law also give effect to the Constitutional Court’s requirement or decision on the so-called unconstitutionality of certain provisions in terms of more precise definitions of repeated infringements of the leaders, which may lead to inexcusable consequences and sanctions. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that amendments to the proposed securities market law will allow for further development of the stock exchange. In addition to establishing a single prospectus for the sale of Slovenian issuers' securities on markets of other EU members, among other key and substantively extensive changes are included, or includes the possibility of selling the stock market in terms of opening up the ownership of the Ljubljana Stock Exchange and its connection with foreign exchanges, reporting to well-informed investors, investors of a transaction over SIT 1 million, with market values outside the organised market of the stock market, which is required to ensure transparency of information and the possibility of trading non-marketable securities, including those of large non-disclosure companies. This mandatory reporting will help to make investors' business more transparent, as there is so far price formation in an organised market that often does not reflect the actual situation in the capital market. In our Group of Members, we believe that the substantive revision of the novelty will contribute to further development and correction of shortcomings in this area of the functioning of the securities market, as up to now about three quarters of the trading of securities is taking place outside the organised market, so it is necessary to make trade in non-marketable securities legally possible, and finally to offer the integration of our market with foreigners. We believe that auction trading is a positive decision, as this will ensure a fairer price, as well as timely tendering for some less transport shares. In this trade, there will be a so-called safeguard mechanism or a suspension auction that will take care of a newly designed or balanced course that can occur at more than 3% of the deviation. In addition, it is important that all well-educated investors, as a rule, will have to report on all the transactions they have concluded on the grey market, exceeding 1 million sieves, to the securities market operator, i.e. stock exchanges, so far as 75%. In particular, the proposed novelty introduces greater efficiency with regard to the prospectus in public supply, organised and transparent securities trading and easier access to capital acquisition in the euro area. In our view, the proposed amendment to the law does not constitute essential systemic interventions, although we are aware of and at one point also of the fact that any amendment made by the directive increases in principle the operating conditions. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law are necessary to adapt to the new, developed, European situation, and should also be accepted as such. For these reasons, the DeSUS Group will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u250	Thank you, Mag. Genius. Mr Srečko Hvauc will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian securities market does not have some long-standing tradition, as in most other European countries, and some shortcomings or the need for changes have also emerged during this period, given the changing market situation. This has led to a number of changes to the law in force so far and is intended, among other things, for this amendment and for the amendment of the law. In doing so, we must stress in particular that the Slovenian securities market is relatively small for the European situation, which also makes it very vulnerable and vulnerable. It is for this reason that transparency and also greater or maximum security should be ensured to those who occur on this securities market. We must not forget that we are not some lonely actors, but we are actually members of the European Union, in which certain rules are in force, which we will have to adopt in one way or another. When we talk about the regulation of the securities market, we can find that it is very complex, professionally very difficult, as well as extensive material. This also shows that the basic text of the law is in 400 and several articles, as well as the proposed amendments have about 123 articles. Therefore, in such a brief presentation, it is not possible to present our view, the view of the Slovenian Democratic Party, to these changes. Perhaps, however, I would mention just a few of the key ones that have marked this text the most important. Of course, in our party we will support the changes resulting from some formal requirements. It is a matter of adapting to the directives of the European Union, eliminating the unconstitutional situation established by the Constitutional Court’s decision, namely that the Constitutional Court finds that the individual provisions of Articles 88, 112 and 224 are inconsistent with the Constitution. We also support some other changes, the substantive changes that are needed because of our domestic situation. This is mainly about a change in ownership structure. So far, the stock exchange and brokerage houses have only been stock exchanges, and in the future these stock exchanges will be able to become co-owners as well, opening up opportunities for further development. However, it is important that the law does not stipulate that current members should become co-owners, but that this is left to free enterprise initiatives. The next very important change for the Slovenian Democratic Party concerns operating arrangements outside the organised market. According to the existing regulation, the stock exchange rules were binding only on members of the stock exchange and the rest were not. If we know that there has been traffic out of the organised market so far, about three quarters of all securities, then this is a very important segment, and it is right that this should also be regulated by amendments to the law. If I conclude, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will certainly support the amendment and amendment of the securities market law. It has supported the transposition of European directives, in order to eliminate the unconstitutionality of the Constitutional Court, in view of the possibility of changing the ownership structure, in order to improve transparency and security of operations outside the organised market and other important changes resulting from the current operation and will also improve the functioning and security of all those emerging in this market in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u252	Thank you, Mr. Hwauc. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u253	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the parliamentary group, we decided to support the law on amendments and additions to the securities market law. We advocate that the inclusion of Slovenia among the most developed countries is correct and that the proposal for a law does not conflict with such guidelines. However, we would like to point out to the Government here that the law under consideration does not solve areas in such a way as to follow the stated objectives of adopting this law. The Ljubljana Stock Exchange is expected to be able to connect with other exchanges in the European Union following the adoption of this law, and the process is intended to accelerate integration and further help develop the stock market and ensure more transparent trading of securities. Social Democrats support the guidelines that lead to greater competitiveness of Slovenian and European economic space. We note, however, that the government has done its job in half because the proposed law does not open up enough opportunities for the proposed mechanisms to actually stimulate the development of the capital market in Slovenia. We expected from the government an integrated regime, a system of securities. It is hard to imagine that trading in different securities can be smooth if laws that touch securities are still not fully regulated. The issue of the definition of securities, such as bonds, was also pointed out by the Government from a substantive point of view by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The individual securities decisions are widely distributed by law, since the bond code, the ZGD and the law in force are still in force, which was adopted in 1989 in the former country. In addition, it is worrying that this is already the second law in the field of fast-track securities, which could also be called ad hoc. It seems that the government is partial to an area that is not systematically regulated for the sake of fulfilling the quantitative annual plan and not for the purpose of finding substantive solutions. We also have before us the adoption of the new Markets Directive, which should be adopted by April this year, which will also affect the area under consideration, and we have not heard a word of this in the debates. Therefore, once again, we are not opposed to the content of the proposed law, but we are surprised that despite the clear facts that we will still be forced to interfere with this area of legislation in the future, the proposal for a systemic solution on securities issues does not come up. Partially solving problems without basic, clear orientations and objectives, however, means stopping on the road between the most developed countries. Social Democrats will also support the law as an incentive to the government not to delay the search for meaningful solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u254	Thank you, Mr. Han. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday, 2 March 2006, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the session of the assembly, which we will continue by voting in half an hour, which is at 6:35 p.m., five minutes after 9:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u255	Please take your seats. We continue with the adjourned 14th session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - this is on questions from Members and Members. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. I see that the voting devices are working. According to the proposal of Ambassador Paul Gantar, can we continue? In accordance with the proposal of the Member of Parliament, Dr Paul Ganttar, the assembly will decide on the next proposal for a decision. At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of Mr Paul Gantar, on the Government's proposal to the parliamentary parties to participate in the planned reform measures. Mr. Gantar, would you like to explain on behalf of the Group of Members? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the LDS Group, I would like to explain our position. We therefore propose that we vote in favour of the debate on the reply of the Prime Minister to the question I have put forward for such a hearing, the following reasons speak for it. Firstly, technically speaking, if we look at the Prime Minister's response, he has not actually answered the question at all, so he has not answered the question whether or not he is ready to carry out a thorough review and revision in the context of the talks on economic, social reforms, if necessary, a revision of some of the measures which we consider to be counter-developmental. This is an important aspect of deciding whether to hold a debate or not, but it is not the most important reason. After all, the President's response must be taken and taken as he has just given it. The Prime Minister was not on the test to answer and to determine whether the answer was correct or not and at this level of his reply, as he was, regardless of whether he did not answer the question, I am fully satisfied. It's something else. If we hold this debate, Members and Members of Parliament will also be able to participate in a broader debate on reforms, its starting points, guidelines and possibilities for consensus-building in certain areas. In another way, in the context of reforms and in relation to the economic development strategy, we will not be able to discuss, we will only talk about individual laws that, if and when they will be submitted to Parliament. In my opinion, in the firm opinion of our Group of Members, it is not possible to discuss these measures, because I do not know if anyone is listening to me at all, Mr President, but neither are you if we do not discuss the social miles in which these development-oriented measures will be implemented as they say. Mr President said that some of our proposals had little to do with development measures. We have to oppose that. How should we talk about measures to promote the competitiveness of the economy, if, at the same time, I think we will do so tomorrow, we are promoting an irrational social territorial organisation. If we divide Slovenia into two regions, we reduce competitiveness. If tolerance and social diversity are prerequisites for remaining creative capital in Slovenia, have we done something that would exacerbate conditions and increase opportunities for the escape of creative capital? Let us in the National Assembly, respected colleagues and colleagues, show that dialogue on development is possible and that they are also possible on all the last different paths to achieve similar goals. That's why I'm asking you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u257	Thank you, Mr. Gantar. Mr. Potch, on behalf of the Member of Parliament?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u259	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u260	Thank you very much. In the Socialist Group of Members, we will support this proposal because we thought that the issue of economic and social reforms was the one that was most important to Parliament at this time. We believe that the answers to the content, as they have been given, raise a number of questions that would be useful to clear up before final decisions, but in particular Members and Members would like to stress that it is important for us to include a national assembly in the talks of economic and social reforms as soon as possible, and that we are not making an illusion that anyone, instead of a national assembly, will be able to resolve and resolve these issues, no signature of the agreement, no partnership unless there is a substantive consensus in this House. That is why it seems appropriate for us to discuss this in the National Assembly and we support such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u261	Thank you. Anyone else want it on behalf of the House of Representatives? No, no, no. Anyone in their personal name? No, no, no. We're voting! Mr. Squeakle, please, not just raise your finger, but raise your hand. I don't see every finger in the 90s. Please provide an explanation for the vote in your personal name.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u262	I think you've seen me or at least that Mr. Plewell has seen me raise my hand. Ladies and gentlemen, Members or Members of Parliament may confirm this. I would like to say that I will support this procedural proposal because the Prime Minister's response magnetogram shows that he has not answered the key question. This is how it actually represents cooperation in shaping the content of the partnership for development. The Prime Minister here states that it is not possible to agree on hundreds of acts in all details, because this was not the case in the process of joining the European Union. Let me remind those of you who were involved at the time that we had a very well-known framework to adapt to. These are European directives. Now we have a framework of economic reforms that has nothing to do with the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia. It is therefore necessary to discuss some of the marginal conditions of the partnership for development. It is important to discuss how we understand cooperation in the formulation of the legal solutions that are designed in the context of reforms, as is now the case with the Government. This cannot include, after the government has spent three of its four budgets primarily to increase the funding of the repressive authorities, now restricting certain social rights or some squandering because the government is heavily indebted to this country. I think it would be good to discuss these conditions at the next meeting of the National Assembly, if you are prepared by the ruling coalition. This is not a minor issue nor for the development of Slovenia. Not for the further work of this National Assembly, so I will support this proposal and I expect you to support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u263	Thank you. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. Following a proposal from Ambassador Ljuba Germić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Minister of Education and Sport Dr Milan Zver to the question of the Parliamentary question of Ljuba Germić concerning the Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia." Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u264	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President! On 16.1.2006, the Government adopted a decision on the abolition of the public institution, the Sports Institute. It justified its decision on the basis of the third indent of Article 54(1) of the Law on Institutions, which states that such a decision would be possible if the requirements or conditions for carrying out the activity for which the institution was established ceased. Mr Minister replied to a question I had already asked a month ago that the reasons for the termination of this institution were, above all, that the activities carried out by the institution would be transferred to the Ministry of Education and Sport, and that all 11 employees would be transferred to the Ministry, which would mean rationalisation, efficiency and better work of all the activities carried out by the Sports Institute. Therefore, a very surprising decision by the Government within a month, i.e. 23.2, when the Government takes a decision on the establishment of a new sports institution as an addition to the Sports Institute, without any explanation as to what new circumstances have now arisen from January to February when all activities have been transferred to the Ministry of Education and Sport, without taking into account the national sport programme, without taking into account the law on sport. There is now the establishment of a new sports institute, a sports institute that covers identical or almost identical activities, as covered by the old sports institution. Of course, the justification given by the Minister at this meeting made it impossible to see the arguments for these decisions by the Government, unless the aim was to replace both the Director of the Institute and the change in the composition of the Board of the Institute. For the good of Slovenian sport, which has brought success in history, sometimes larger, sometimes smaller, but has always been a promoter of Slovenia in the world. In the interests of sport, of course, I propose that we hold a debate on the ministry's response, to cast aside any doubt that the government has acted differently in this regard than would have wanted the benefit of sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u265	Thank you. Anyone in their personal name? No, no, no. We're voting. The vote is under way. 79 Members and Members are present. There were 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the proposed decision was rejected by the assembly. In accordance with Ambassador Maja Shirca's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision. At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister without a document responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Slovenian Development Strategy, Dr. Jožet P. Damjan, to Majde Širc's question on the impact of the introduction of a single tax rate on cultural development. Does anyone want to explain on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u266	Yesterday it was late and there were not a dozen Members and Members to hear the question that we asked Mr Damjan about the impact of reforms on culture, especially in the light of the experience of Slovakia. We have taken Slovakia because reformers have repeatedly referred to the success and lucidity of the reforms that have taken place in Slovakia. But the introduction of a single tax rate ended in Slovakia with dramatic results. The book's spread from 10% to 30%. Small production houses have disappeared. The scope of the press, information, magazines has decreased. The cultural budget is also one of the lowest in Europe and also outside European countries. And we asked the Minister without a licence whether the introduction of a single tax rate by reference to the Slovak experience is the best solution for the development of culture in Slovenia. Of course, Mr Damjan had only three minutes at his disposal. He wanted more. And we want more. We can give him a chance if you support this proposal. A proposal that actually offers partnership. We've been listening to a lot of partnership offers lately. My proposal is that you become the first coalition partners among yourselves and support a discussion, an open public debate, on the issue of essential changes that can happen in the area that you think has been justified by the Slovenian people. There is no Slovenia and Slovenia that does not support development and the debate on reforms. And there is no Slovenian or Slovenian to oppose development. We are also one who knows that development can be threatened if it does not happen to consensus, if it does not stand up for it and if it does not take place in democratic debates. Today's vote has shown once that you do not want such discussions. You have the opportunity to fix this on one segment of the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u267	Thank you. Anyone in their personal name? Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u268	Your Honors are here! I myself will oppose the introduction of a single tax rate or any tax intervention in the Republic of Slovenia that will be reflected through higher prices, irrespective of the correspondence between the Prime Minister and the Presidents of political parties, whether a service or a product, a product in any form. However, I find it very interesting that the National Assembly does not take advantage of the opportunity it has before it today, and takes advantage of the possibility of a debate in at least one area of 90 Members drawing for themselves and for all those citizens who, in my opinion, urgently need a written word at an affordable price, not that the Slovenian policy departs from the written word by raising prices. I would also like to point out that it seems completely unacceptable to me yesterday's reply to Parliamentary Shirci, when he said that there is nothing wrong with foreign or domestic beauty works, or if the price is therefore higher, that this would not affect further development, whether school children or anyone else in our country. I believe that this is one of the opportunities for Members to be informed of the actual effects of the single tax rate in the National Assembly beyond those of the high policy and correspondence between the Prime Minister and the Presidents of the parties. This time it's only in this area. However, I believe that the debate would bring us forward, if not otherwise, unless it is already deserved by the recipients of the written word, and that is what all those who are not regular customers of the so-called written word deserve. It would be good to talk about the effects of a single tax rate which the government claims to be one, the professional and the professional public claim to be others. And I am on the public side, so of course I will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u269	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u270	Thank you very much. We're in a very paradoxical situation. On the one hand, the Prime Minister seeks to reach a broader agreement on changes in Slovenia. The same is true of the Minister without a license to hold a discussion with everyone about the necessary reforms. On the other hand, the Prime Minister makes it clear to the opposition that he does not have proper hearing for his ideas. At this point, we have and have the opportunity not to disappoint the Prime Minister and to support a discussion that is important for a segment called culture. Is the coalition serious about these initiatives in the newspapers and with its pioneers, that it is necessary to discuss them, will be shown by this vote. Once today, you have already rejected my colleague Gantar's proposal to discuss this. Now we've moved to a narrower segment. If there is no gap between the will of Prime Minister and Minister Damjan and the coalition, then we will unanimously support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u271	Thank you. Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Calling that this is a partnership offer is very modest - I would say - even to some limit limited. The partnership offered by the Prime Minister and the partnership in the form of LDS, a partnership for five hours overnight, a partnership as someone will love to scream, now I want to be a partner for a while. The system and style of the Prime Minister, and of course of the Slovenian Democrats, is a longer partnership so that during this period we can have a thorough discussion to break down and, of course, also to those who are ignorant, let us say what is necessary to keep them informed. Therefore, I cannot support this proposal, because of course I do not want to be a partner for a few hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u273	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Well, that's the way I look at it. But we want to participate in this coalition for a long time, and we see the need and need to clear up a matter as soon as possible. Especially given that we are in principle against a uniform tax rate with consequences, as we see them today. Of course, we are prepared to change our position absolutely if it turns out that the arguments for the introduction of a single tax rate are strong enough and will not leave any consequences, as we understand them today and as predicted in those few informations we have received from this address. We don't think it can hurt to talk about it. I think we need to play in the event of economic and other reforms being carried out in this country openly. Here is any form of hiding and back-up from the dialogue unwarranted. That is why we will support this debate in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u275	Thank you. Anyone else want it on their own? Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u276	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We were just about to get a lot of information on culture. You know, my colleague Majda Shirca and I asked that we get into the hands of the government's analysis at the Ministry of Culture as soon as possible. That didn't happen until the last time. Now there's only one analysis ahead of us. The analysis in general, although confirmed, does not exactly indicate that a single tax rate would benefit culture. Even though, of course, there is something written about it. To clarify matters, we also asked Mr Damian to speak on this. In three minutes, of course, he couldn't answer. It would be an act of deceiving him so that the answer would be incomplete. Because he could have done it in three minutes. However, he has the opportunity to tell more and also potential partners about this, to make sure that he is right. I think that Parliament is really and still meant to talk about things, to prove that we are in favour or against, not just to vote. I will therefore vote in this case to discuss this and anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u277	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u278	I will support the proposal of Ambassador Majda Shirca and I am pleased that some Members of the ruling coalition will do so. Because I think it's only one measure. In the later proposal for a procedural decision, we will talk about another measure, but only about individual measures under the reform framework. I will support this because it is simply worth talking about what Mr Damjan says, quote: "Of course it is reasonable to support with more expensive subsidies all that leads to the temple of the Slovenian language, but everything else that is commercial, such as Harry Potter, does not." And the question is whether Harry Potter really is a commercial or not. The minister thinks it is. Someone else thinks it isn't. I think that the discussion on whether we will have a single tax rate and whether the single tax rate on culture will be replaced by some "government decision on subsidisation of appropriate culture" and we will have different ministers assessing what this appropriate culture for state subsidies is, surely, belongs to the National Assembly. Today, Members of the ruling coalition have the opportunity to support a proposal for a decision that will bring some of this debate to the real room. This is, in this Chamber of the National Assembly, not that it will be some one-hour or two coordination before the adoption of the budget somewhere in Gregorčič. That is why I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u279	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u280	Thank you. Just as I supported the request or the proposal for the previous two discussions, I will also support this. It is no coincidence that young economists with very drastic statements have caused cultural shit. Unfortunately, it does not seem enough for Parliament to be ready to discuss the Minister's response to the question. The tax rate for the book is different in European countries. The name of Ireland we like to refer to is zero. And any other lower rates could be found. However, I find it difficult to argue that higher ticket prices, higher book prices will not be known even in the round of those who are willing to deduct something for, especially for their own Slovenian production. In particular, it would be good if those who so much like to refer to the strengthening of patriotism, not only in the mature generation, but also in the youth, to think about what they actually say with such messages. That culture is for the elite, while the people are freed to have fun with Kekchev's song. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u281	Thank you for explaining your voice. I give my word to my colleague Jerovsk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u282	Thank you very much. I will not support my own proposal from colleague Majda Shirce, nor will I support my previous proposal from colleague Gantar. In both proposals and both questions, I actually see a proposal for a debate on the confused response of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy on the proposal of the Prime Minister on the Partnership for Development. I understand the representatives of the various factions that we would like to reconcile their views on the transitional development of Slovenia through this debate and agree on some agreement on Slovenia's vital interests. I know that all these proposals are about an identity crisis in the LDS, and that I take all this as an abuse of parliamentary talk in the parliamentary benches to regulate the situation in a party. I think we must also help the opposition parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u283	Comrade Jerovšek, I will be forced to interrupt you. We are at the moment of explanation of the vote, we are not at the moment of the debate on the internal possible divisiveness of one.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u284	I'm explaining my voice why I won't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u285	From political parties. Comrade Jerovšek, will you stick to the rules of procedure or should I take your word?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u286	I stick to the rules of procedure and reason. That's my view.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u287	At this point, I'll evaluate it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u288	My view is that, and I also know their debates and discussions on how things are going. I know it's a reflection of the distress they were talking about this morning. And, Mr. Vice President, please don't interrupt in the future. You're the first one you've ever held on to. There are no other sights. I would now like to say once again that I cannot support this proposal for these reasons, because I am for a serious debate. I think that a serious debate on all of this should also be brought to Parliament, but not in this way through abuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u289	I also continue to ask this distinguished assembly to take account of the voice-explanatory institute. It is defined in the Rules of Procedure. I ask all future debaters to take this into account, explain how they will vote and why they will vote. Once again, I would like to point out that we will come to a proposal for a decision that discusses the Minister's response to the question raised yesterday by Ambassador Majda Shirce. The next on the list to be tabled is Mr Aloise Sok. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u290	Thank you very much. I'm sorry to disappoint you too, Comrade Shirtz. We will not support this proposal in New Slovenia. This is not for a simple reason, because if the opposition, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the Social Democrats, were to support this idea of partnership, of course it would make sense to discuss it. At a time when I also have the feeling that you are actually looking for an opportunity for some form of verbal accounting, of course it does not seem meaningful and it is more about wasting time than it is about finding some common smart solutions. For this reason, we will not support this reason. And it also seems that not all the calculations are yet at this point and there is no way that this debate would actually be as it will, of course, at some point when we have these numbers on the table, be possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u291	Thank you. Explanation of voice. Comrade Lakhovnik, please. Haven't you just reached out to the word?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u292	Yeah. I did not understand you enough, Mr President, because there is a lot of noise in the Chamber. I want to give my opinion. I myself will support the fact and proposal of my fellow Member to hold a debate on the Minister's response. Especially because it's already been said here. It seems that we have a whole range of studies on the table, so that we have nothing to think about, but we can simply verify the impact of a single tax rate on culture, on publishing, what this means for book authors. The facts are on the table. We now know slowly that these studies cost quite a lot of money to Slovenian taxpayers. And given that, I think we have every right to get to know them through the debate in the National Assembly. I really don't understand why some people are so afraid of it, the more I somehow get the feeling that the minister wants to explain some of the facts that I think are at least - worrying. We can see that this controversy has raised many different questions. And I really don't understand some of the reasons why they're so afraid of this question. But to say, it seems, we think, we believe. We're not psychics here, but we have to take the facts into account. These facts can be very easily verified if we give the Minister the opportunity to explain the more detailed impact of the single tax rate on the issue of culture. Of course, I think this effect is extremely bad, it's harmful. I do not support a single tax rate, even for this reason. However, I have the right as a Member to become acquainted with this and to see what the Minister's arguments are for monitoring and implementing the Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Slovenia or whatever it is called after a new one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u293	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Ambassador Maja Shirtz, on his own behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u294	The Slovaks also thought that the waste of time was a debate on the cultural and reforms they had introduced. And today, two years after that, they know that they literally killed culture because they brought in a political experiment without analysis, without discussion, without deepening into the actual situation. This could be a big school for us not to go this way. In Slovenia, the moment when reforms are announced at the door, in one way or another, is not enough studies, there are not enough analyses. The culturers are quiet because they're afraid of what will be taken from them. They are also afraid to speak, and on the other hand, they are confused. I think I am convinced that Mr Damjan, who is largely responsible for these reforms and who has recently said that in Slovenia we have culturers who are holy cows and that culturers are similar to farmers in a privileged situation, we need to clear up this issue, which is just before the present and can have fatal consequences, especially in the light of a bit of a wild view of the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u295	Thank you. Before I give my word to the next one, I'd like to ask the following. See, 82 Members and Members are present in this Chamber, so I apologize to my fellow Members of the Presecnik and to the Lakhovnik because I did not guarantee proper peace for them to listen to the speakers. Therefore, I ask all of you to be so correct to the speaker and to all the others who listen to the debate, and make this possible. If you want to talk, please leave the hall and do it in the lobby. We proceed with the explanation of vote. I give my word to Mr. Stebeth. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u296	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Shirca's colleague is very persistent in asking such questions and scaring her with a uniform tax rate in the field of culture, heritage and so on. The Prime Minister's call was not only for a development partnership within the meaning of a whole set of reforms, but also called on all those who know a better solution that could replace the single tax rate system. I have not heard such proposals so far and have not heard them. In such a debate, which will focus closely on cultural issues, I also doubt that we could find a better solution. The existing solution has several significant shortcomings. In fact, lower tax rates tax all products belonging to the social public interest and services, not only creativity and half-creature in the field of culture, art and so on. And that's for all kinds of buyers who have a lot under their thumb either below the level or at the level of poverty. So the current system is very unfair in this respect. Moreover, it is not only Slovakia that case, Mrs Shirca, that Russia has a single tax rate and several other countries. The issues can be resolved in a way that is selectively supported by certain rules by those social public matters that deserve it. In this way, the negative effects of the single tax rate can be compensated. I will vote against such a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u297	Thank you. I really do not wish to extend the meeting, but you cannot state or ask other Members and Members in the Institute of Explanation, which you have just asked because, of course, I cannot give them a word of reply. I would therefore ask that you stick to this and take into account the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I give my word to Ambassador Zagorec. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u298	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I, like my fellow Member, will not support the proposal to introduce a single tax rate into the tax system of the Republic of Slovenia. To discuss how much a single tax rate is welcome, not only in the area of culture, but also in all other areas, I believe that only those who have too few reasons to convince us - I will say - are afraid of us who do not believe in the welfare of a single tax rate, because they have too few reasons, too few confirmed facts to convince us that a single tax rate is welcome in this system. For the time being, I am on the side of those who believe that the single tax rate is evil in Slovenian economic, political, cultural and other lives. I will therefore be happy to support the proposal of Ambassador Majda Shirce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u299	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Germich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u300	Thank you very much for your word. Of course, when I hear such arguments as this, which speak of the fact that it is not necessary to adopt the proposal of a fellow Member, I wonder why this opposition is necessary. Because they offer us answers that the solutions that are currently in force are bad, but they do not allow us to discuss concepts in which different criticisms or positive or negative appear in the public. Knowing about these things is always too little. Of course, I am surprised that there would be no possibility to discuss these open issues here in Parliament. I'm sure it's easy for someone to just believe that he believes because he wants to, because he has to believe. But let us doubt and ask questions, questions that I am sure you will know how to answer from different points of view, because Slovenia offers different concepts. You're offering prosperity. Allow us, allow yourself to present these arguments in various ways to the widest Slovenian public. I really don't understand why the resistance to the good concepts that you think you are offering doesn't mean that you want to represent everything and everywhere when you have the opportunity to do so. Of course, I wouldn't want you to put the opposition in a position if we didn't want to believe right away that we wanted to cooperate. You're asking us to sign, and then finally, let's ask what we signed. I always say hop before I jump. Of course, from this point of view, I would support the fellow Member's proposal to hold this debate here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u301	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Mohet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, nice evening. I think there is a confusion in this House. First of all, I must be honest with you, Prime Minister Janez Janša has sent our Group a mixed offer. If I heard this or read what he sent us, I can tell you that I did not know the answer to random things, but that I understood only that he had promised us a final goal, how we would get to him. How we're going to coordinate, he didn't say anything. That's why we gave him his confused offer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u303	Comrade Mogo, I ask you to stick to your explanation of vote. We are talking about the lady's initiative, the question of Ambassador Shirce, not the letter from Janez Janša. This brings us back to a basic debate, which is not being discussed today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u304	Or if I say with a parable, if I'm not allowed to speak directly. If I'm invited to Mont Blanc to be invited by someone, and they tell me, go, we'll go to Mont Blanc, but don't tell me what equipment we're going to have or what direction we're going to have, or how we're going to do this thing in time, then it's clear that if I'm not a fool, that at least I'm going to ask him about certain things, then listen to what equipment we're going to take with us. It is precisely on this initiative that we are talking about equipment today. If we want to respond positively to this initiative, would you at least expect the coalition to try to be so patient and give us the opportunity to ask the minister in which direction we are going? However, I think that this kind of behavior, and by dissuading it into Slovenia, is spreading a wave of fear that includes officials, journalists and, finally, sportsmen, and is due to the fact that we have not received any medals, including the fact that fear is flooding Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u305	Thank you. Member Milan Friday has the floor. I'm asking for peace in the hall! Let's listen to the debater.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u306	Thank you, Chairman. When I listen to this debate, I am afraid that my conclusion will be confirmed that most of you coalition Members are not aware of the importance of culture, both in history and in the present, and especially for the future of Slovenia and culture as a lower segment. So do you even know what kind of fear, what doubts they have in cultural circles? Do you take part in this culture to hear those who are overwhelmed by fear what awaits them in this new legislation? I don't think so, gentlemen. When I look at your faces - now I'm going to risk not wanting to approve - you're also relatively few to see at some event, some show, some concert, some show and so on. And those who don't experience it can't judge that. To tell you that you will not attack me, I was President of 11 years of Carmine Slovenia. I hope you know who that is. That I enjoy a regular subscription to the Maribor Theatre to go to Cankar's House and so on and talk to these people. I know what that means. And you leave them in this uncertainty because you've just decided to do some whole story around a single tax rate. You're offering us examples from Russia. Are you aware that Russia has no connection and no comparison with Slovenia with the two million visas of the powerful millions that translate them? And that's why I'm afraid you're not aware that by delaying this debate you're going to take a step back. To leave these creators in uncertainty, rather than now opting for an immediate debate, for the immediate adoption of behaviour and knowledge in my field and for the decision-making that will guide them in this year and in the coming years, their policy of creating, guiding this cultural story in Slovenia. That is why I call on you to vote as I support Mrs Shirce's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u307	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Grimes to explain his voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u308	Thank you for your word. Colleagues, I would like to point out that everything that you have intimidated people today is only one of the proposals that have been put into discussion in the framework of the proposed reform pact and is therefore up to you, whether you will participate in this debate on what will be your decision and what will be taken in the final stage. The issue of culture is that it is debated in a reasoned manner, that it is discussed with concrete numbers and with concrete solutions and that it is not played on by emotions. To all those who play on your emotions, which means you are running a demagogy and thereby showing your ignorance, your political ignorance, and I sincerely congratulate you on your holiday tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u309	I'm asking for peace in the hall. Since I don't see any more desire to explain our vote, we're going to move on to a decision. Comrade Pavel Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u310	Mr Vice President, this desire to explain has fallen on me at the very last moment, I apologize. I will vote in favour of the proposal, Mr Vice-President, honourable colleagues, for a simple reason, because we are already discussing this. We've been talking for, like, 15, 20 minutes. Maybe even more. We are discussing half an hour, we are discussing in the deadlines of two minutes. We're fast, we're superficial. Why don't you take your time for an hour, two hours next, sit down, argue? Why are we always just bound to amendments, proposals, to more or less sometimes boring stories? Let us discuss some matters in an articulated, organised manner. It's not that someone's right and someone's wrong. There's no right answer here, and there's no wrong answer. That's what we want to tell you all the time. If you want to have this partnership, let's have it in the debate first. LDS isn't looking for a partnership for a few hours. We don't call this partnership. And if we were looking for it, no, we wouldn't be looking for your colleagues from the Social Democrats. So I strongly recommend that we go and talk about things, because none of this is going to hurt. Let us take some time, take some opportunities, not just allow others to set our agendas and do things for ourselves and for our own good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u311	Comrade Pavel Gantar, thank you for explaining your voice. You made one lapsus. You must be aware of him. I ask, who else did the last moment come to think that you wanted to explain your voice? Here you go, Comrade Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u312	No, not on behalf of the MP, no, no, no. So I'm gonna say it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u313	We have concluded our explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. We are in the stage of explaining the votes of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u314	That's it. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your accuracy. I'd like to warn others about that. See, some years and years [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u315	Comrade Pavel Rupar, I apologize to you now. I have been warned that you have already given an explanation in the role of Member, so of course this.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u316	Not a group of Members, I'm sorry. Now, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u317	Comrade Pavel Rupar, I count on your honesty. Tell me if you have already given an explanation on behalf of the Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u318	Yeah, yeah. On behalf of the Group of Members, I would now ask if you could give me two minutes back.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u319	Here you go, continue at this minute and 12.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u320	Thank you very much. I wanted to put it that way, in my own name. Look, you've been offered a partnership. You will be able to cooperate and discuss how long it will take for us to reach the joint nominee or the result below. It is very difficult, of course, to tell some if you still think of us as the Social Democratic Party, but for years we have not done this and it will be very difficult for some to really tell, not in a couple of hours, in weeks, in months, especially the LDS what we want. It'll be hard to tell. Therefore, of course, I see no point in this debate starting in a few hours because it will not end. I say we will take years to teach you, teach you and, of course, explain what we really want with reforms. Practice says so.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u321	Comrade Pavel Gantar, you have applied to the Procedural. But if you'll excuse me, I'm going to finish with the voice-explanatory phase first. So for the last time, does anyone else want to explain their voice? Comrade Skull, colleague Bevk. My fellow schoolboy, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u322	Thank you very much. I'll tell my friend Rupar that I've already spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u323	No, Comrade Skull, I've also been warned, I won't give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u324	That's right. You let him talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u325	It's incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u326	Well, that would be the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u327	Don't make me turn off your microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u328	Then allow me.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u329	We continue with those who have not yet had an explanation of vote. Comrade Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u330	Thank you very much. As Vice-President of the Committee on Culture, I will support the proposal made by my colleague, Shirce. But I'm disappointed that the president of the Committee on Culture didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u331	That's it. We have thus concluded with explanations of vote. Here you go, Comrade Gantar. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u332	Procedurally. My apologies, Mr. Vice President. It was really a lapsus. I called Slovenian Democrats Social Democrats, even though they once were. However, I apologize in particular to the current Social Democrats for replacing them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u333	Good. I believe the apology was accepted. And we're going to the vote. We're voting. Comrade Skull, did you sign in procedurally? I will take into account, in advance, just this procedural proposal or allow a word. I won't be late because I'm guessing that we haven't said anything else and that the rules of procedure haven't been broken in anything. My fellow schoolboy, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u334	Thank you very much. I'm taking this opportunity only to protest your actions. Earlier, I deliberately volunteered for the word second time to see if you would do the same as you did with my colleague Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u335	Comrade School, I took note of your protest.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u336	Let me finish. Mr. Vice President, don't be so impatient. We're talking about a culture of dialogue. All this debate we are having here is a debate on whether we are able to talk. I find that the coalition is not capable of doing so, and I note that the Vice-President is not able to drive this debate either. So everyone in the framework set by the rules can say what they want. I regret that. Thank you for the opportunity to let me say this to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u337	Colleague Školč, perhaps we should know that at this moment and for the last ten minutes, there is no discussion, but an explanation of the vote and that is why the right provisions are applicable to explain the voice. Please follow the rules of procedure and do not interrupt the Rules of Procedure and our time. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. 37 votes against 42 in favour. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the assembly does not adopt the proposed decision. We are moving on to a vote on the proposal by Member Milan M. Szvikl to decide on the next proposal for a decision: at the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on the response of the Minister without a document responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia, Dr Jožet P. Damjan, to the question of mags. Milana M. Szvikla on the future activity of the Minister and the reduction of public financial expenditure in gross domestic product. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u338	Mr. Chairman. Members of the ruling coalition. Yesterday, the Minister is discussing that there is really not enough time to explain the contents of the first of the 67 measures under the framework of economic reforms, and this is how to reduce public spending by about 150 billion. It's something that will touch all of us. In particular, you will be in the ruling coalition when you are forced to adopt such a budget or a different one. Secondly, what Mr Minister failed to explain precisely is the gap between his claim to introduce a single tax rate and the fact that the single tax rate is not mentioned is not mentioned in writing in the text [[Mr Janša]] the development partnership. He also considers that the tax on paid salaries should be abolished already in 2006. This is something we proposed in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia last year, and without this minister, the ruling coalition decided not to do so. And then, with the Minister for Monitoring the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia or the Minister for Development, we discussed the need to ensure a transparent withdrawal of the country from the economy. Mr Minister agreed that what happened to Mercator was not only inappropriate. It is inappropriate that KAD and the SOD decided to prevent the recapitalisation of Mercury - not many of you were in the Chamber yesterday, and the Minister stated what the new government strategy on the functioning of KAD and SOD was like in the transparent withdrawal of the country from the economy. And, of course, he said it was some stupid transactions. I propose to you, Members of the ruling coalition, that you support the procedural proposal to hear the Minister for Development, who, of course, is to direct the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Environment, the Minister of Finance, perhaps the Prime Minister himself, how to really implement the framework of economic reforms. Someone earlier said that we will not discuss a single tax rate because it is only one of the 67 measures, let me say, of course, that this first measure since the 67th, if you look at the text, has a direct or indirect link to at least another 20 to 30 measures, so this is actually the debate on the content of the framework for economic and social reforms. But the minister himself said, time is too short. It's a good idea to talk about it. I'm ready to explain myself. He also showed us some tables of what the government will do. We're supposed to accept that in this National Assembly. It will soon be spring 2006 when the 2007 budgets are prepared in accordance with the procedure. In these budgets, expenditure will have to be reduced by around 100 billion. We should talk about this in this National Assembly before you are [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u339	Comrade Squeakle, time!
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u340	mainly in the ruling coalition in this forced at a meeting at Gregorčičev 20. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u341	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, and 32 votes in favour against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, the second reading of the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in the management of a European company. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, two to 25. So we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 25. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. The vote was 32 to 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 30. Explanation of vote, Mrs. Potrata, on behalf of her own or on behalf of the Group of Members? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u342	Thank you. Since the request for an assessment of the legislative and legal service in relation to this amendment has been made and because there is not enough time to explain, let me say very briefly only the essential things. Article 11 of the European Directive states [[an abuse of procedures is referred to as]] "Member States shall, in accordance with Community law, take appropriate measures to prevent abuse in relation to the deprivation of the right of participation or denial of that right to workers." At least two old members of the European Union, Germany and Austria, have such a special article called the abuse of procedures. In line with this practice, an amendment was also proposed, which was first considered as an independent article entitled Abuse of Procedure. As such, it would refer to chapter 2 of the law, which is called the negotiation procedure. Articles are marked with numbers from 4 to 15. This does not mean that we refer to Article 18 or Article 22 or Article 38, which is not discussed either. Of course, it is not possible to reconcile it with the opinion of the legislative and legal service, which says that there has been insufficient explanations or explanations. But in this National Assembly lately we have generally accepted amendments with a majority without a word of explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u343	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present; 33 votes in favour, 43 in favour of the amendment. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As no amendment has been adopted to the bill, the assembly will vote, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, on the proposal for a law, on Thursday, 2 March of this year, within the framework of a point of vote. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the participation of workers in management. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the participation of workers in management is not suitable for further consideration." Explanation of voice. Comrade Kumer, on his own behalf or on behalf of the Group of Members? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u344	Thank you for your word. Of course, we will not support this proposal for the decision of the home labour body in the Social Democrats' Group of Members. We have not heard any firm and relevant arguments today that could confirm the Committee's decision that the proposal for a law is not a good basis for further consideration. On the contrary. The government has caught itself in its own trap. Her chronic argument that the company law does not yet have a definitive solution to the single management system fell today at the point when we considered the European Shareholder Act, which she proposed. It also defines a single management system despite the fact that the ZGD has not yet been definitively adopted. With this move, the government has itself assigned us to propose amendments to the law on the participation of workers in the management that there is no adjective in relation to the company law. For we have proposed the same thing, and we have done the same thing as the government has done. The only difference is that the coalition majority in the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee and the disabled acted in a double manner. If we truly and truly want a society of cooperation and partnership, which in the last days is a political motto of the ruling government coalition, and if we want to be a social state, then we will seek, for substantive reasons rather than formal reasons, that workers will decide and participate in decision-making with their knowledge, abilities and positive energy. Because I am an irreparable optimist, and I hope that in this case this law will not repeat the old story we have witnessed in the last year. When many with their mouths and what is in their mouths give much - and today we have heard a great promise to co-manage workers - that, of course, they can take it with both hands when they write laws. I hope this story doesn't happen again.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u345	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. The vote was 42 to 40. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law to remedy the consequences of working with asbestos. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We have tabled an amendment to Article 1 of the draft law to Article 1 of the SD and LDS parliamentary groups. Voice explanation, Comrade Bevk. On behalf of the Group or on behalf of the Group of Members? On behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u346	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In the Socialist Group of Members, we will support the opposition's joint amendment to Article 1, which complements the concept of the law on the elimination of the consequences of asbestos exposure, is also said by the environmental and not just professional aspects of asbestos diseases. With amendments to the opposition, the opposition follows the government's intention in December 2004 in the starting points for the creation of a new law to include all potential exhibitors, both employees and former employees in the production process or service services who came in contact with asbestos directly or indirectly, as well as residents due to environmental exposure to asbestos by diagnosis of mesotheli. A similar promise was made in response to my question in June last year by the competent minister, mag. Janez Petty Officer. Why there has been a change in the original concept of government law at the final stage of the drafting of the law. I mean, they were just afraid of the financial consequences of such a solution. However, the data on the number of patients due to the environmental provinces of asbestos diseases presented at the meeting of the parent committee by the head of the Clinical Institute for Medicine of Work, Dr. Dodič Fikfak method from the Clinical Centre in Ljubljana, are not large and would not significantly jeopardise the state budget. This month, the Dutch Government has promised to amend legislation that will equalise the rights of patients with mesothelioma, whether they have become sick at work in asbestos production or have been exposed to asbestos in the natural environment, particularly in the business environment. Now we have the perfect opportunity to join the Netherlands and equalise the rights of patients with mesothelioma. Therefore, I ask colleagues and colleagues to vote in favour of the amendment to Article 1 of the Act and to forget the division between the coalition and the opposition, because the characteristic of the last 10 years in relation to the asbestos law is that Members and Members have decided unanimously so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u347	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. Before the vote, a colleague named Anderlič applied for the explanation of vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u348	It is an essential amendment, namely to determine whether we are in fact being exposed to these harmful substances, and ultimately to continue what has already been done in the state of Slovenia before many countries in Europe in a very human, fair way, to ban asbestos production and trade in asbestos, to eliminate the heat and, of course, the people who have been in this situation, so that they have become sick of this disease at the end of their lives, even as much as they have been able to relieve pain. So it is to listen to the letters that the Members referred to today, to the promises of the Minister a year ago, two, three. It's about respect for all the organisations that deal with it, so trade unions, both society and so on, on behalf of the group I say, yes, of course, because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u349	My friend Anderlich, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u350	'Cause he invited me, sir. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u351	Comrade Anderlič, colleague Anderlič, this is the second time you have to say this, so much you have to be right to our technicians. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u352	It's okay. If [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u353	There was no debate on whether you speak on your own behalf or on behalf of the parliamentary group [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u354	They still are, you still are, because you don't have to talk so often, just tell me if you'll give your word or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u355	Go on.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u356	I have the right and you have the right. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u357	Go on.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u358	And you're in charge of the session. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u359	Go ahead, anything that is, please, for correctness.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u360	And I believe that you do not want the voice of those who stand up for people to be heard, those who are therefore here, that the letters referred to by members of the coalition, in which people are reminded that it is necessary to arrange for it to be settled. And this amendment is talking about it. And we are voting on whether you want people exposed to asbestos to be either in a factory or a factory to be guaranteed those rights that have already been regulated by law, and you have simply reduced them by this new law. This is what you are saying and say that you are against people, that you are against getting the status of a professional disease, or that you could get compensation from this address. That is all this amendment is about, and that is why we will support it in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u361	Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Comrade Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u362	Thank you very much. It seems to me that, of course, the explanation for the voice is being misused in pure populism. I won't support the amendment, but not because I'm against people, so I won't help people. It's just a simple depravity. I'm here to help all these people, but not in a completely non-conceptual way. This law is not a law for the population; this law is written as a typical example of a law that deals with a professional disease and does not abuse the concept of this law in such a way as is abused by some in explanation of vote. I regret that I would like to help these people in any way, because they are entitled to it, but this needs to be done on a different basis, but not on a different basis from a law that is not subject to the law on these issues and therefore is pure abuse and ordinary populism, which is what some people here do. I can't support such an amendment because it's highly intentional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u363	Thank you. A Member of Vice-President Klavoro and later of the Friends. Here you go, Mr. Clavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u364	In my own name, I would explain my voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u365	Comrade Klavor, then I must remind you that in this case Member Lucky Friend has the advantage of speaking on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u366	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u367	Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u368	Thank you very much, Mr President. To the president of the labour force: we adopt the law for the sake of the people, not for the legal form. And I would ask that you do not deceive the National Assembly, for this law is far worse without these amendments than the one that has expired. That is why we now have a legal void, and the government has not done what it has promised. Please, people are dying! It is not something that can be corrected, we talk about people who are given a life span for a very short period of time. And let me understand that for once! Fix this injustice for which the state is guilty! The country's fault is that these people got sick, not only in the factories where they worked, but also in the factories where they lived. Whether they're children in kindergartens or factory workers, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u369	Thank you. We have concluded by explaining the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to an explanation of vote on our own behalf. Comrade Clavor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u370	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In my own name, I'd like to explain my voice. I have said many times about all this, so-called asbestos issues. It wasn't about populism or persuasion, but I was very glad you listened to me on this subject. I am very surprised at today's debate that many debaters have talked about non-professional issues, as some of them have. If they listened to Dr. Dodičev's committee, an expert, then I listened to her as her colleague with great interest; it was a pity that you did not listen to her. There's been a lot of talk about incompetence. But it doesn't seem to me that this thing is so unprofessional, and it's so attracted to hair. I want to talk about people who worked inside the factory and those who lived by the factory. We have talked a lot - I am very surprised at some debates - about occupational disease and asbestos disease or asbestos disease. It's exactly a defined term, it's nothing to hair drawn to. You know, we also talked about oncology in general, cancer. This is completely different than when we talk about mesothalioma pleura, scientifically proven. I could still explain if I had time to do these things so that we might realize that some are just doing the right thing. It would be hard to go through the Soko Valley or stop, and we know exactly what region of this area, and look people in the face if you didn't do what I'm about to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u371	Thank you. Comrade Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u372	I will support the amendment because I want to give all those people who will be in a position to see no other help than to turn to doctors, to the commission, to asbestos, because of the consequences of living or working in an environment where asbestos was present. I will also vote for this because the legislative and legal commission has found that this law is systemic and has not opposed to this amendment and this amendment can be the subject of this law, and in this way this country can, if we have the will to deal with this issue, only this is the case. , If we want to give people this opportunity to protect themselves in such a way that when they get sick at least as a person would call it a milder consequence, then it is reasonable to support this amendment. I've listened too much in these 10 years to trauma, to the pressure of people, to those who have been employed, to those who have lived or live in the immediate environment, and that's why nothing else needs to be found here, as if, if we want to give these people this opportunity, then the law should be supplemented, if not, of course this law is limited, it saves things only partially. However, I think that this change in the following life will probably show that the law will still have to be supplemented, and even then, if I have the opportunity, I will do so, so that I can support such a solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u373	Thank you. Comrade Sok, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u374	Now, if you'll excuse me. I checked in earlier on behalf of the House of Representatives, and you probably missed me. I would say that we will not support this amendment in the New Slovenia Group. This, of course, assumes responsibility for everything you say and we fully agree with what the Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs has said. This law is written for other purposes, it is said, for employees. What you are proposing to extend the matter to everything is, of course, without any argument, the expansion practically to the whole of Slovenia. Of course, those of us who took part in the debate today were able to hear and warn ourselves who has met and is still facing this phenomenon called asbestos. If, of course, doctors were to adopt this law, but not to politicians, I believe that it would probably be different, but it should be realized that there are a lot of people suffering from cancer in this country, including cancer caused by such and different external influences. It is not only asbestos that causes cancer, it causes a lot more, but it is for asbestos patients that it has decided to adopt a special law and this law, which will clearly define how and who is justified to do so, not as it has been so far, when, in fact, those funds that were intended for this purpose have not been used, because there was a law in force that did not give these patients an operational opportunity to do so, and this letter we have here before us today and we have been able to listen to what our citizens wrote about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u375	Thank you very much. Member Breda Pecan has the floor to explain his voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u376	I'll support the amendment. I think that, in my own debate on this amendment, I have made it clear enough that they do not hold to the claim that asbestos, caused by asbestos in the wider environment, is not only in jobs where asbestos was the most intense disease, which is specific in relation to all other diseases caused by environmental agents. And that this disease, which is still frightening among us, is still ahead of us a future that will last for about 30 years, for many people, perhaps even someone here in this room in 20 years will be sick of asbestososis, and will then wonder whether it has done the right thing because it has failed to acknowledge that due to the late decision of our country, not this national assembly, not the country of Slovenia, but also the countries of Yugoslavia, there has been a period when asbestos will still occur, much longer than it would have been if Yugoslavia had done it 20 years ago, 20 years before the collapse. And for this reason, I believe that it is our duty to allow those who live or work in the vicinity of these cities, where asbestos has been released, to enjoy the right to similar benefits as those who have a occupational illness defined under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u377	Thank you. Explanation of vote, Ambassador Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u378	Thank you for your word. Although I had no intention of answering myself, some coalition members encouraged me to do so. If I understand the law that we are going to vote on today, it speaks and gives you rights, only to people who have met asbestos and asbestos in the workplace. Everyone else who encounters asbestos or asbestos outside the workplace, whether their roofs are covered with asbestos cover or asbestos in their facades, will receive a new law from this government, both in the opinion of the chairman of the committee and in the opinion of some other fellow members of the opposition, this year. A new law in which they will be covered. Today we are talking only about those who encounter asbestos and asbestos in the workplace. I'm interested in respectable colleagues and colleagues in the position, when is this marriage going to be? In my opinion, it is good that in this law we capture all people, all those who encounter asbestos, but not that we accept in a month, two or 14 days, which I doubt you will be able to draw up in this mandate a law on asbestos, which also includes those who encounter asbestos outside of their work area, to adopt it in this law. That's what this amendment offers us. Last but not least, you must realize that some people worked with asbestos mainly because they were forced to do so by the state, in state-owned companies. I will therefore be happy to support the proposed amendment of the Group of Members or, I will say, the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u379	Thank you. Member Germich has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u380	Thank you very much. So I am aware that this law will not solve the problem of occupational diseases in its entirety. At the same time, I am aware that in the multi-year debate, when the debate was heard by significantly fewer Members than we are at this time in the Chamber, we have not been able to convince that in the law that I agree with the adoption of this amendment, we would change the concept, but there is no dilemma for me here. Why isn't she here? It has been said that diseases based on asbestos-specific disease and that Slovenia was already one of the first countries in the European Union to regulate this area by adopting legislation in 1996, we agreed that the 1996 law, which was also amended for several years, was certainly necessary in this area, which we are also talking about today with the first amendment, because we have restructured production. And Members and Members, if we adopt this amendment, we can adopt the law in its entirety today, because if we follow all the amendments, the amendments are consistently amending the whole law. And before each one of us will be this dilemma, whether we will solve this whole issue or limit it only to certain individuals who have been exposed to asbestos in a certain way. I'm telling you again. It is impossible to be defined as an asbestos patient unless it is verified by a so-called group of experts who identify a causal link and can be supported from this point of view [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u381	Thank you. Member of the School has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u382	Thank you very much. In 1996, members of the SKD, SDS, SLS from Tolminska, Bovska, Vipavska and Goriška were among those who were key to convincing Parliament that this law should be adopted. Why are they quiet today? Why are they voting against this law today? This is, in some ways, a very relevant question, when we all know more after ten years than we knew in 1996, when the first law was passed. There were many questions at the time, both for doctors and for lawyers dealing with labour law and with problems related to occupational diseases. Today we know, I will say, practically everything that is necessary for us to be able, with the instruments available to the country, to somehow remedy what is possible to recover. At the same time, officials with ministries opposed these solutions. Officials have not changed, Members have changed, some have stayed with their own and their Members, others have bowed down to the Office and people remain with their problems. I will support this extension solution regardless of whether it has any weakness, because it is significantly better than bringing back to life those things that need to be settled. And I hope you won't excuse yourself. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u383	Comrade Skull, the microphone has taken your word because you've exceeded the agreed deadline. We continue to discuss the explanation of vote, to explain the vote I invite Mr Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u384	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I said earlier in the debate that, of course, I am to extend this circle from a purely logical conclusion. If nothing else, it means if all this political cover you call getting points is ignored. Of course, we all score points, we all lose points, but that's not why we're here. We are here to, of course, emphasize, make this country more pleasant, more pleasant. For all those who have, of course, suffered from asbestososis, it is too late, but something can be done. Surely those people living near the sources of the militia are much more at risk than anyone else. Perhaps someone is even more at risk than the one who only comes to the factory for eight hours, or who is in some part of the production process, where there is not as much contact as there is 24 hours in the factory. Of course, half-lancer disease is not only in Anhove and around Salonita, but also elsewhere in Slovenia. I can tell you this because I am home from Zasavje, where there are a lot of respiratory diseases, where there is a lot of cancer on the gut and so on, which is all due to excessive pollution of the environment. But like the polluted environment with asbestos in Anhove, there is probably nowhere to be, and certainly the state should, since it has also drawn some of the good out of it, repay it with some compensation. Of course, I am not surprised that the government is trying to reduce the budget burden. I'm more surprised that the government is trying to cut down on the profits of the Intercement, which is owned by Salonite or by Salonite. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u385	Comrade Gulic, you were too slow yourself. I give the floor to Member Sam Bevk to explain my vote. I'm asking if you all stick to the planned and the "display" of the displayed time. Comrade Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u386	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The head of the Institute made it clear on the parental committee that asbestos diseases are separate from other occupational diseases everywhere in the world and in Europe as well. This is because asbestos is the only substance so far where professional cancer has been scientifically proven and recognised and where it still comes first in Europe as a professional asbestos cancer. Not to mention a large number, let me say that there have been 365 cases of mesotholioma throughout Slovenia from 1964 to 2002. The environmental mesotholiomas, which you so object to today because of this amendment, were barely three in the Soča Valley, are called an extremely negligible figure. Then I would also like to say that the verification of occupational disease due to asbestos exposure will be carried out by a special interdisciplinary medical committee of experts referred to in Article 9, composed of a doctor specialist in medicine working, a doctor specialist internist pulmologist, a doctor specialist radiologist or a doctor specialist in other specialities in relation to the case under consideration, and all these experts will be appointed by the Minister by a decision. Besides, I'd say it's not hundreds and thousands of cases. So far, 1,433 asbestos diseases have been verified after 10 years of this law, 400 have been disabled, and 1,000 of these asbestos patients have been able to redistribute their jobs, so it is not a mass illness in thousands. That is why I think that we could also include our amendment and extend this law as we do the signatories of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u387	Thank you. Explanation of the vote by Member Milan M. Cwickl.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u388	Voting on this amendment will show how the ruling coalition represents a partnership for development. Only this is not a partnership for development, but it is a partnership to deal with the consequences of working with asbestos. As well stated in the comparative review, it is about whether we will follow the Dutch model or simply insist on this solution, which sometimes made you say something quite different and limit the matter only to those who have encountered it professionally. I believe that, and this is quite a bit of European and global practice, that the question is not only to address the consequences of working with asbestos in those who have worked directly with asbestos, but for all others who have met with it as a result. Perhaps I would not even agree with this amendment if a brief review of the government's work programme for 2006 showed that it is not true that the government will draw up a law to remedy the consequences of asbestos for all others, because this programme, the work programme of the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health in the government's work programme for 2006. So today you have the opportunity to support this amendment and the following amendments to rule out one of the non-existent and the necessary points of the government's work in 2006, in 2007, and to ensure that we all better deal with the problems of people affected by the disease as a result of asbestos exposure, either at work or in the environment, to the institution where this asbestos was used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u389	Thank you. Vote explanation, Ambassador Franz Capuder, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u390	Thank you very much. I will support the law as such, and I cannot support this amendment for a number of reasons. Mainly because I think this influential area is expanding practically across Slovenia. This thing can get out of our hands and really come up with a system of dominoes for which, after all, no one will know who is drinking and who is paying. Above all, I think that this law prepared by this government is better than before because it extends the range of beneficiaries to those who have not been covered by the law so far. And there are, I mean, a lot of these. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u391	Comrade Capuder, if you'll excuse me. Please, peace in the hall! Comrade Zagorac and Tavš, please go outside if you want to talk. Be so correct or cultural and listen to Members who have something to say. If you can't do it, do the things you're doing outside. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u392	The previous law was inoperable, which was also shown by the letter I presented in Parliament. And all those who refer to how the previous marriage was okay, maybe it was for those days. The time was enough for him to improve in the meantime, but I don't think there was a desire or any special will. And I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u393	Thank you. Vote explanation, Comrade Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u394	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to tell my colleague Školč that I will support this law, given that he has called on some Members to support it, and I am answering here, as he has warned us. [[It's an ad from the hall.]] No, no, you were talking, colleague of school, about the law. Secondly, I would like to say or because today there have been a lot of discussions about how workers are exposed, those who explain wagons in Maribor, those who repair ships on the insular dock, if we read Article 2, I think it is significantly wider than the law now being implemented and say: "The right under this law is justified by persons who have been employed in companies that have processed, stored, installed, removed asbestos or asbestos products." Thus, all workers who have performed this work dealing with asbestos or asbestos products will be entitled to the rights arising from this law. Next thing you know, I'm gonna say. Articles 12 and 13 say nothing that Istria or that Cementarna Anhovo - I don't know what it's called today - will pay for anything. It is said that those who support the law and do not support the amendments do not talk about capital, whether Austrian or not. This is where Article 12 states, 'all obligations arising from this law are assumed by the state budget'. And given that, in the light of the application and implementation of this law, there will be significantly more beneficiaries than, otherwise, with wider rights, less realised in the existing law, I will not support the amendment to Article 1 of this Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u395	Thank you. Member of the Parliament of the Council shall be represented in the statement. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u396	True, it is a key correction, and if we accept it, then perhaps today we could leave these premises without shame. For the issue of this amendment is but one: a matter of priority. Mr. Minister, this is a matter of your priorities, your government's priority. Does it seem more important to this government that some people go to Lourdes or that they think it is more important that we not play with health? And here we are talking about diseases, about diseases is extremely, extremely sensitive to talk and thank God that there is actually no transmission. In fact, the consequences, and if I return to the priorities, and even if I justify my reason for supporting these solutions, and as a result, all the others following this amendment are just one. People did not become and come to these problems because they wanted to, but because the circumstances were such and not only those who were in a working relationship but also those who were around them. This is as if today- today they say that the right to disease in avian influenza is only by veterinarians and no one else who would eventually come into contact with sick animals. In short, let me tell you that a six-month-old soldier in Iraq is a five-year compensation for one patient suffering from asbestos contact.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u397	Thank you. Member Davorin Terchón has spoken, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u398	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, in all this debate, I wonder what your ex-boyfriend Praiseworthy would say. I recall these debates, which were in the National Assembly, how he, with whom we have not agreed many times, but together we have achieved unity to support a solution that, as we have seen and, as we have determined at the end of the asbestos patient union in Slovenia, has been better than the law will be adopted. And this man who came from this environment, which, as I say, we didn't agree on many times. I wonder what will be the message of these solutions from today's session, the message that we have taken a step back in this area. It will be a message that we are no longer united in this area, and it will be a message that some mean more party discipline and command than care for the little and the help of the needy person, whose entire policy is full of mouth before each election, and then forget about all these promises in a vehement way. I will, of course, support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u399	Thank you. We are done with this explanation of vote. Before voting, however, I merely remind you or inform you that, unless the amendment is adopted, the amendments to Article 2(2), Article 4, Article 5 (1), Article 6, Article 7, Article 10 and Article 12 and Article 16 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There were 79 Members and Members present, 37 votes in favour, 42 votes in favour. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 42.]] This has made the previously read amendments irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 2 to decide on the first amendment of SD and LDS to that Article. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Anyone else? No, no, no. Mrs. Breda Bakan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u400	I would like to inform my colleagues that the Social Democrats' Group will support this amendment. In particular, I would like to base my opinion on why this amendment needs to be accepted in order to make it clear that this amendment allows people working in an environment where the company has processed or installed or otherwise worked with asbestos, which has spread into a wider environment that has not been limited to a particular job, since it has not been possible around the workplace where anything started with asbestos, to make cages in which asbestos would remain, but has spread into a wider environment. It is said that not only to the inhabitants living directly in the vicinity of a particular factory, but also to the offices, to the working room, to the doorhouse and so on, it is said that all those jobs that did not directly deal with the production of individual asbestos products and, of course, other materials. By maintaining the text in the workplaces, I hope that all those who are already suffering from asbestososis, who already have plaques that may be in the short term, will receive preventive examinations, will find that they even have cancer on the lungs or lung cancer caused by asbestos. Therefore, I believe that keeping these words is extremely unfair and, above all, I must warn you that this dictatorship is also a major deterioration in the light of the previous law, which you say was impractical. I would also like to warn you that it does not hold that the law so far has not been enforceable due to the very conduct of the law, but, above all, because the Commission, the Commission, did not work for the Commission. That's the main problem. Why didn't I do this to the Commission? This is a matter of the morality and functioning of individual ministries, both in previous mandates and in the current mandate. Why aren't the committees working? That's the basic question. And for that reason, I think that, colleagues and colleagues, it would be right if we all unitedly supported this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u401	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 29 votes in favour against 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment of SD and LDS to Article 2. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 28 votes against 44. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the fourth amendment of SD and LDS to Article 2. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 28 votes against 44. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD and LDS to Article 3. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 28 votes against 43. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 5 – we are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of SD and LDS to Article 5 above. We're voting. There are 73 Members present and 28 votes against 44. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 8 where we have two amendments. We turn first to the decision on the first amendment of SD and LDS to Article 8. Explanation of voice. Ambassador Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u402	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, here with this amendment, we are extending the Inter-Resort Commission from four members to five members, and the fifth member would be a representative of organizations of persons affected by asbestos. Why is that important? The Interdepartmental Group will lead the negotiation procedures for the payment of compensation and the recognition of the right to a disability pension under more favourable conditions. And, of course, in the context of this negotiation procedure, it is very important that the representatives of the sick are a member of this committee. Why? Because in the end, there was supposed to be an agreement. However, the agreement will be concluded if the economic operators referred to in the preceding paragraph, i.e. in order to recognise the share of the compensation, agree on the terms of the agreement and if the person who has applied for compensation agrees accordingly. Of course, if no agreement is reached, there will be a time-consumer at this time, of course, who, after the verification procedure, has been granted a degree of disease due to asbestos exposure, will not, of course, be entitled to certain compensation or other benefits under this law. The second thing is, if this agreement is not reached, or the agreement will not be the same as the one that has submitted the request, a lawsuit in court will be possible. Given that time is a very important factor for those who have become ill, mortality is a very large disease and the time in which this final stage can be very short. It is therefore very important for me to ensure the presence of an individual representative of all these patients in this Interdepartmental Commission, which will lead the coordination process, in order to reach an agreement, so that the agreement can be reached as quickly as possible and so that the agreement will not then be discussed in court. I therefore propose, fellow Members, my fellow Members, that we support this amendment and allow the representatives of the sick to become members of this Interdepartmental Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-02-28-SDZ4-Redna-14.ana.u403	Thank you. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 42. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of SD and LDS to Article 8. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 31 votes against 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded our vote on the amendments. Given that the non-admission of the first amendment has led us to delete some others because no amendments have been adopted to the draft law, the assembly will vote on the draft law on Thursday, 2 March of this year, in accordance with Article 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, under the voting point. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to the broken 5th item of the agenda. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters on Thursday, 2 March, within the framework of the point of vote. And a broken 10th point in the agenda. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the vote on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Securities will also take place on Thursday, 2 March, under the voting point. I hereby adjourn the 14th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night!
