ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mag. Franz Capuder by 17:00, Zvonko Černač by 16:00, Joseph Horvat by 13:00 and Aloise Posedel. We're moving to 23. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - TO DEFINITIVE INTERVIEW OF THE WORK AND RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MINISTRY FOR THE KULTURE OF DR. VASKA SIMONITIA. I'd like to ask if we could calm down so I can continue the session. The Interpellation was submitted to the assembly by a group of twenty-two Members and Members with the first signed Majdo Shirca. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mrs Majdi Shirca's MEPs for an explanation of the interpretation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u2	Mr. Minister, distinguished Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues, colleague! "There has been a lot of promise, and now there is only fear everywhere. People fear for jobs, no one dares to talk a lot, no coffee, no colleagues remain silent. Now it's all so scared and I'm a little scared of it." These are the words of RTV Slovenia. Recently, it was a victim of political pressure. Since then, we have almost no longer seen her on the screen, which she has occupied professionally and responsibly for more than 12 years. The Minister, who announced the war, became a European achiever in 2006. These words to you and they tell us everything, and it is enough that after 15 years of the establishment of democracy, we can ask ourselves what has happened in our country, that we must respond to such words at all, and that we are forced to say no to the Minister of Culture, who is also responsible for the media, that we are forced to cut after the interpretation, the most persistent form of supervision of the Minister's work. In it we ask him what he did, and in our belief he should not have done what he did, but he should have, what he promised, and then forgotten where he had denied the rule of law, why he lied, why he had been hard on his staff, and why he was returning us with wrong cultural policy in a time of limiting freedom of expression, in a time of control and censorship. Minister Simoniti, we view your work as bad and harmful and we state the reasons for it in our interpretation. With your decisions and decisions, your Government is becoming increasingly closed and dark. You are performing "The Swan Sing", which would have long-term consequences and will continue to have the once established openness of our society. For, Mr. Minister, in what times have men been at work and voice if they have defended the profession and the truth, and in what times have those who have sworn to the loyalty of power received a voice? It is not right that the government understands its own prey and conditions the financing of the project only if it is with its own, your people. And it is not right for your people to order what scenes may or may not be in our film. And who can play them and who can't. And it is not right to force laws that are unacceptable to the profession and even to the Constitutional Court. And it is not permissible for your actions to make the professional integrity of journalists a luxury that can be afforded by fewer journalists and journalists in an existential fear. And it is not good that the power that you are part of takes over the Slovenian media through its societies. Mr Minister, we've been reading to you, we're seeing a gap between the promised and the actual state of affairs in the adoption of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. On 25 September last year, citizens and citizens decided at the referendum on the Law on RTV Slovenia and several thousand votes were taken in favour of the bill's proponents. The will of the people is legitimate, and in the opposition we have accepted and respected and waited for the law to be implemented and which of the promises - and in the referendum time were few - will be realized by the government coalition. Now we find that all our fears are realized when this law is passed. The worst part is that democratic standards have been reduced in Slovenia and that the enforcement of the law is part of a broader concept of the current government, which not only wants to submit to the media, but also to the public administration, the police, the economy, the prosecution, the judiciary, all the way to our intimacy. You have accompanied the law on RTV Slovenia with promises that it will bring better and, above all, cheaper television to get more, even a third parliamentary programme. Did we really get all this? No, it was a lie to make the referendum work. You needed a victory at the referendum to take over the appointments to RTV Slovenia. In 16 pages, a comprehensive referendum brochure, which urged citizens to adopt the law, was made 15 or more times as sure that the law would contribute to a lower RTV contribution. On flyers and "jambots" we read "For a lower RTV contribution." What manipulation, what lies. For today, the Director-General, who has been appointed by you, even tells us that the contribution will increase, you, Mr Minister, and the President of the Government, Janez Janša, and who else comes with philosophy that something has been appreciated because it has not been encouraged. What's more abstract than proving that something's down, even though it's the same. 2,637 tolars on the stand are still 2,637 tolars. And if this government has not been able to deliver on one single promise, such as a lower subscription, how can we then trust the'mega' with the big projects that will reach there by 2020 and beyond. You're putting us in virtual worlds, Mr. Secretary, because you're not real? More arrogance, Minister, is your statement that before the referendum, before the government, I state that "it is one year after the referendum impossible to change the law in a way that would not be in accordance with the will of the people". So even though you knew, you've been predicting a reduction, but not in the way of inflation, now you're saying that the savings on RTV are from non-coordinated contributions to inflation. 600 million. These are, as you say, adverse consequences for RTV Slovenia. It's true, they're very unpleasant, and we should have known that before. But since you haven't manipulated or manipulated yourself, I'm wondering if you've deliberately damaged the RTV facility with your law. By the way, Minister, is the lower ratings of RTV Slovenia, which is also witnessed by the data, also better RTV Slovenia? Does the same contribution mean that public television will become less and less attractive and that we will wonder why we are paying it at all and why it is not more paid than the Government itself, which forms it according to its own taste. Furthermore, you have been unable to assess that there will be no third parliamentary programme. Both us and RTV Slovenia have warned you that for the third programme there is no possibility of getting a picture, not a frequency, nor money for it. You didn't hear anything. Now, in response to the interpellation between the lines, however, you admit that the problems are that there are no frequencies, and even those that would cover 90% of the territory, and that there is no money. So, total blockage. The distribution of the parliamentary programme is expected to reach only 50% of households this year, so that people are supposed to get an addition to the television receiver. How it's going to go, how much it's going to cost, who's going to pay for it, what it means for households, what the minister does nothing about it. Very embarrassing, Minister. During the adoption of the law, you did not let yourself be taught about the harmfulness of the laws you proposed. You have been eloquently explaining to the public that existing frequencies can be arranged in such a way as to ensure legal coverage. You have mocked and contributed to the adoption of a law that is simply impossible to implement in many places. Let me remind you that the Constitutional Court has already repealed the law in the work that restricts television sales, as well as that the third programme has become and remains without a legally designated responsible editor, which is even a condition for the media to be legitimised. You have defended the law with false promises that the National Assembly will appoint the most respected people in the programming world. The principle of choosing to obtain a majority by measure of power in this body was political and even so dictatorial that it had to be enforced with a "plonk" sheet. That is why many fell away from it. You have received human resources shopping and people who, for example, have performed the appointment of the Director-General of RTV Slovenia in violation of the law and contrary to the applicable statute. As the Director-General did not meet the already deflated tendering conditions, he did not submit a credible work programme or a vision for development. He did not need a certificate of language knowledge and, as a mockery of all voters at the referendum, nor did he try to show that he knew RTV activity, which was an unequivocal and binding tendering condition. We are not the only ones to find today that the dominance of power creates self-censorship. According to the information provided in the interpolation, the viewership of RTV programs unfortunately falls, there is no constructive direction in the management, employees are dissatisfied and the public agency gets the catch of state-run television. Let me remind you, Mr Minister, that the ratings of RTV 1 in Prime Time in 2004 were 24%, in 2005 after the referendum 20%, and in the first quarter of 2006 only 18%. And let me also remind you that confidence in the media was 43% in January 2003 and only 24% this summer. Unquestionably, some violent changes in administrations, editors, and media management have influenced this decline in the reputation of the media. What confidence the public will have in television after the pyramid broadcast yesterday, which encouraged intolerance and turned the problem of the Roma into a spectacle, can be answered and answered on its own. It has gravely violated constitutional principles that prohibit the spread of hatred in article 63. This is the kind of television you've produced with your influences and your power. It's not an honor to us and the public. Mr. Minister, you can refresh your memory of the RTV Act you signed. It also states that respect for human personality and dignity should be respected and the principle of ethics respected. Was that respected yesterday? The law also states that the programme obligations of broadcasting for the Roma community must also be respected in order to include the creation, preparation and archiving of radio and television programmes for Roma in the public service. This provision of RTV does not yet respect it. However, prepare a show that portrays hatred and the problem of the world’s public as an offensive boxing ring. The repetitions that have literally flooded this year, especially the summer television programme, which is those programmed content that the proponents and advocates of the law have seen as one of the key arguments for change, will not in recent months continue to correct the above statistics, as it rains the comments of viewers and viewers, who, for example, had to watch the winter snow in the middle of the summer days, or the people who have recently died. Repetitions of the 15-year-old programme could have been well-intentioned, but at the same time significant, pianist and state-owned. Not to mention the excitement caused by football matches when the World Cup was over. Of course, you deny the obvious, Mr Minister, and you also say that the absence of the Champions League on public television is an economic benefit. This, though, will be difficult for people to understand, especially when they know that such broadcasts cover public television covering the entire territory in almost all countries. However, everyone can agree with you when you say that it is the duty of the founder to ensure the autonomy of the public institution RTV Slovenia. You're saying you're very strict about this in the government. But, really? What about the green lights on the line of Gregorčič – editors, what about the conditionalization of government representatives at the meetings and the reproof of leaders who hope to remind themselves that ministers do not want certain interlocutors and opposing positions, but what about the protection, with the coalition will of the appointed chairman of the programme council, Dr Stanet Grande, who was in an unacceptable conflict of interest when he promoted the mayoral candidate at local elections as head of the Ljubljana Assembly? The President of the Television Supervisory Board has been proven by your order, Dr. Janez Jerovšek, a member of your party's presidency and council years ago, and his successor has also been precisely identified in your office. In a very influential supervisory council, the National Assembly appointed even two members, one of the five representatives on a proposal from your party, although the law provides that the National Assembly should take into account the relative representation of political parties when appointing its representatives. You could say that the law was broken, but an important message to the partners also claimed to know who was in charge here. The law you have drafted, forged, signed, Mr Minister, introduces into the public institution fear, self-censorship, self-conceived opinion, apathy, internal friction, discontent, and, above all, frustration in which journalists and other programme workers are drawn, as their thoughts are increasingly dependent on the thinking of the government. The creation of a programme under pressure from the control of the other eye, however, means the death of a journalistic profession or a public eclipse. In fact, what we watch or listen to on RTV is even more eloquent than what we don't see and what we don't hear, because it pre-empts itself through a lot of party decisions, even if it's just a movie. It was never explained why the documentary Fahrenheit 9/11 by the famous and controversial director Michael Moore, who received the Canes award for this film. Maybe because of his anti-Bushish attitude? Minister, you have repeatedly defended the RTV Act by claiming that business in a public institution is catastrophic, imprudent and that the institution is in poor financial condition. It sucks so much that your colleague would rather send the public office to bankruptcy. Really, it's not good. Advertising and ratings are falling, but the financial backdrop is strong. It is saved by bonds from former investments in the Intergovernmental Organisation Eutelsat, which have brought more than half a year's value to RTV Slovenia, nearly 9 billion, say every Slovenian 150 euros or almost 40,000 tolars. At the time, some members of the current opposition were very opposed to these investments. Today, some members of your Supervisory Board have even proposed financial rewards to those who have carried out this business. That's funny! This project was also you, Minister, a suspicious, semi-corruption and inappropriate way of doing business for the public office. He was always in his teeth until you came to power. At that time, all the votes were to be raised in favour of the revision of the project within the so-called "Squeaks" commission, silently. Otherwise, it does not matter which authority is responsible for this business, and it does not matter that you are satisfied today with what you have recently condemned. It is important that these funds are diverted to the urgent digitisation of the RTV facility and that they are not exhausted by the payment of various licences, personnel and other investments, which unfortunately happens. While we are pleased that today you claim that the financial situation of public RTV is good. Even so, personal incomes are more than exemplary. In August, the Director-General, who was appointed without complications by most of the government-led members and members of the Programme Council, was one of the best-paid public servants in the country. As well as the work performance allowances paid, which, like both directors, are paid at the rate of 600,000 gross per month, do not show the institution's crisis. Well, also members of the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council have significantly better meetings than they used to, since they amount to almost 72,000 for members and 100,000 for president. So much for the promised savings you predicted a year ago. The law has made it possible for staff to change the entire management of public television. The wish to dismiss the current editors was so great that the statute reduced their mandate. Changes are taking place and they will be elsewhere, not just at the top. Here come new footage, including from Democracy, from the magazine Ali and Radio Fire. For the first time in the history of the radio, it happened that the radio under the new statute ran out of an autonomous, responsible editor for music programmes. The director of television expresses dissatisfaction with the ratings of some films and even threatens with sanctions if there is no substantive overhaul of foreign films. Television is certainly one of the largest cinematographers in the country. The film term 7th seal reaches 5 to 7% ratings, says 150,000 viewers per evening, a number that even the biggest film successes are difficult to reach in the cinema, of course. That is why the requirements that the Seventh Seal, which means the tradition of the best and also the most watched films on TV, would open up various commercial productions. Letters are placed where viewers wonder why the program is growing with religious content or the contents of one religious community. The Programme Council is just before the adoption of new programming standards, but television already has its programming standards. In 2004 it was adopted by the previous world of television. And why the standards that have only been valid for two years are no longer suitable for use - a rhetorical question. Interestingly, the draft new standards bring about a measure by which RTV is to be avoided, quote, "the demonstration of non-democratic and totalitarian political systems, societies and countries in a favourable light". Failure to respect such ideological measures is followed by penalties and can also work on the road. Otherwise, political suspensions are already taking place. We cannot avoid the case of journalist Vide Petrovčič, who allegedly received a suspension due to the surrender of the Ultra because she was too critical of the representatives of the ruling coalition. In the show, she said, among other things, that, I quote, "the new political elite has shown what the media correction looks like after the new". According to her, it's bullying and unofficial suspension. The broadcast of the Utrip should not be the main reason that Petrovčičova no longer works actively on daily information shows. Until yesterday, a well-known and successful and respected journalist found herself at the mercy of Minister Bajuk, who threatened her, I believe he would destroy her. And with regard to the atmosphere of the nationalist, Mrs Petrovčič says, these are publicly published words: "News colleagues are frightened and shocked. General fear is present. My colleagues tell me they don't even know what to put in the Heart. There are no rules. But everyone's shooting at us, from politicians to their own bosses." Minister, you are correctly responding that programming is a matter of editorial autonomy. But viewers and viewers observe changes and do not see them as autonomous decisions. But if so, they are ascribed to the new spiritual perceptions of people who now make decisions on television. In the late 1980s, RTV recorded the Pankrats, understood nothing about Leibache and metals in the bunker of broadcasts where he had too many words, say Pirjavec or any ZSMS. Even Mr Janez Janša was censored in another society at the time. I know the last reel of "bunkered" stuff on TV, and I also know that in the '90s no one was filling it up anymore. And today, the shows are going back under the scissors. How else can we understand the cut-out recordings of Let 3 that recently took place in that beautiful afternoon and were rediscovered with censor cuts. How do you understand the threat with the suspension editor broadcasts you and later his withdrawal? And Mr. Minister, a new age, a new marriage did not bring as gentle, relaxed and full-time life as you promised. Because even Teletekst RTV Slovenia is supposed to be under control. It is not only about human and mental cleansing in a public institution, two years after the elections most of Slovenia's largest media leader new people who did not inherit their predecessors because they would have an editorial or management mandate, or because they would be doing bad business, and it is not only about people who create new profiles of Slovenian media. It is also an important capital impact on these media, which depend on companies, especially those where the state is the majority owner. The power of companies governed by human and capital power is Hobotically paralysing the media, which in the face of political pressures is a murderous blow to media freedom. It seems important to anyone that Tednik, say to this right-wing culprit who has stopped the SDS and has about 6,000 copies sold over the last two years doubled advertising revenues to, say, 70 million; while the week, say, to this left-wing culprit who has much higher loads, his advertising has been drastically split. The ruling coalition, through companies that are majority state-owned, pulls out ads to those independent media that are too critical of the government. The experience, as described by the domestic owners of Primorske novices, is shocking, on a well-known principle - exchange in the supervisory board, indemnity of the director, director, appointment of a director who publicly says that the media does not know at all that it does not read Primorske novices, that he is a friend of Boris Popovic. The responsible editor, the scenario is known of course, has to stand down for personal reasons, new for human resources solutions does not seek a binding opinion of journalists and so on. This protest by the small owners of the Primorski novice has never been published despite the right to reply and correction. Dear Minister, at the time of the adoption of the law, the distinguished representatives of the European institutions warned you that you were making a mistake when you put the public office in the service of politics, not in the public interest. You underestimated them and labeled them so-called professional. Your colleague at the foreign ministry made sure that the critical opinion of the Council of Europe representatives flew from their websites. Like today, Mr Janez Janša, who says that for Slovenia, unpleasant articles about the Roma on the front pages of foreign newspapers have been written in Slovenia, you have also seen foreign opinions of the media profession as a domestic conspiracy. You say about the State Department report in response to the interpolation that this report is in principle very beneficial, although we know that cities are very harsh and critical. You also say that Dr. Janez Jerovšek responded to the report, who informed the American Foreign Minister that the report was flawed. Interestingly, Mr Grimes also rushed there. What the hell is this? It's an independent institution or pressure is also happening at the State Department. Otherwise, the latest report by reporters without borders, we know that this is a non-governmental housing organisation, reports that Slovenia has ranked lower on the global press freedom scale this year. Last year she was in ninth and tenth place, this year she is 13th, along with Hungary, Latvia and Portugal. Last year, Slovenia was awarded one negative point and this year three. The measurements were carried out after the implementation of the RTV Slovenia Act. Among the criteria for classification on this scale are the impact of the State on public institutions, supervision of editorial policy, pressure with advertising blockages. When we tell you about attempts to have a political impact on the media, Mr. Minister, you say it's about sneezing, fat confusion, and drowning. However, the Media Act, which has brought billions of tolars of budget resources to the media and thus opened the way for them, has been prepared by you. And it's so excited that the law was passed before the money was even provided for it in the budget. By distributing this money, you then rushed ahead of the local elections, just like you did last year, just before the referendum on public RTV, on the law on RTV, by distributing state money to local and regional media. It is true, Minister, that you are consistent and adhere to the goals that you once signed in the well-known six demands that something should be done. That's when you agreed to throw Janez Kocjančič out of RTV, provide the opposition with places in the control councils, etc. etc., and also line up, you call this to balance Slovenian media. Budget resources for the media are now being shared. Unfortunately, you do not give priority to funding arising from the European Directive and talking about aiding media audio-visual content. Europe has only adopted one binding directive in the area of culture requiring a majority of European and its own production in electronic media and a certain percentage of the programme of independent producers. I am not saying that the share of these funds in the past has been exemplary for this purpose, but it is certainly not adjusted now that you are leading the ministry, because you have specifically stated in the law that this share must be 400 million tolars, but you have not provided it for this year, not for the next year and not for 2008. Even our amendments, which would make this right, made you excited about the adoption of the budget. But in the budget fund for media pluralisation you were 100%, you guaranteed 100% money. You provided the money, you distributed it, and you rewarded the media with it. What you give, therefore, is the minister, the advantage; the development of domestic creativity, television, education and also radio, cultural, children's content, which is intended to remove cheap and affordable American and other non-European purchases, or the payment of the loyalty of media houses, which are supposed to occur with the so-called balance, pluralisation and political differences. By the way, did anyone even understand the distribution of money by the key to pluralisation in terms of representing the political positions of the opposition and position? The tendering conditions of this basic item do not explain, but there is no analysis to give this key the basis. There were no media professionals in the billion-dollar commission. Otherwise, the co-financing decisions do not have the necessary grounds by law, and we can rightly guess why. Why, for example, did some Maribor local television, led by a Maribor councillor, receive the most state aid, which prompted the co-financing of Info television by the owner, who also made up the provisions of the new media law, which is accompanied by a very enthusiastic delegation of the Slovenian Government around the world? What, for example, encouraged additional funding for the New magazine or magazine Ali, whose responsible editor is the new director of television, and we can also guess why this magazine, which already spends its budget on publishing items, gets additional money from the minister's reserve, then needs money from the so-called media fund? In short, we can guess why projects that deal with elections have been approved, for example, if you look at the decisions, why many who devote themselves to culture, education, etc. have been rejected, and we can guess how these projects will even be implemented, given that they will have to produce for a billion tolars of programmes and content within one month. Otherwise, the problems of making calls at the Ministry are quite different. Projects that have reached a lower number of points than those that have been rejected shall be approved. Complaints, if any, as any complaint may also be punishable, shall be exhausted and marked by producers. Any settlement is, of course, not comparable to what it means for investors, a harmful compromise for them. By means of the Media Act, you have brought about an extended exercise of the right to correction and reply. You say that the right to correction does not whitewash the editor's head, although they publicly express their dissatisfaction with its extended power and even though fines have already taken place on this account. Editors say that the extended right to corrections makes editing difficult and forces them to publish texts that can mislead readers. You yourself demonstrated its use with this, and we have seen this in your interpretation when you corrected a short contribution to the "Eightth Day" culture show. The message of your correction, which also contained corrections that did not have references in the contribution, was as follows: "Any critical thought should be based on objectivity. But what's objective is my judgment. The result, the author of the contribution and the editors will be careful in the future, self-censorship, and thinking contributions will be less or less gone." Mr. Minister, a major problem that has arisen in Slovenia, is also your Proposal for a Law on Kobilana Lipica, a correction of the old law, in which we find a unique solution that allows the protection regime to be bypassed in Kobilana, as well as the opinion of the profession, because there will be no longer any need to intervene in this national cultural monument. The main purpose of this change is, in our opinion, to allow policy management to avoid professional design and to build what it wants in this case golf area. We know that the Institute for Cultural Heritage in Nova Gorica has given a negative view of such priorities. The new Agenda for Protection and Development gives a lot of attention to golf, which stipulates that the existing golf course should be upgraded to 18 playing fields. However, in the financial investment plan, a total of EUR 196 million is earmarked for increasing the golf course, of course, by state tolars. Not only is it disputed that the Government's expansion of the golf course by state resources is more important than investing in the basic programme of Kobilarna itself, but it is also disputed that the Government has adopted a programme on your proposal, which is in contravention of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and the then applicable Law on Kobalna Lipica. The government has decided to approve all these content in the protection and development programme despite being at odds with the professional starting points for the national location plan. These are, which is very important, long-term envisaged the withdrawal of the casino and also golf courses from the cultural monument area; of course, you have never sent such a proposal to the Government. And even more scandalous is what you say in your reply, Mr. Minister. You believe that the opposition of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage of Nova Gorica to the expansion of golf courses in the way you proposed greatly exceeds its powers - the powers of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage. This is by interfering with the area of economic and development policy-making. Moreover, the Minister, for those experts who opposed these changes, you say they were not led by an expert argument, but rather by a service of daily political interest. Interesting! How can someone who cares about professional interests lose his job because of their daily political interests? Let us just remind ourselves that the Assistant Expert Leader of the Kobilarna Cultural Heritage in Lipica, Mr Edbin Tavčar, has been publicly warned that the new leadership of Kobilarna Lipica is building a new golf course, otherwise under the pretext of revamping the existing golf course, that he has received a written warning against the regular cancellation of his employment relationship; his working relationship has also been interrupted later, at least in our opinion, due to an initiative to assess the constitutionality of the illegal protection and development programme and the amendment of the law addressed to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u3	Mrs. Shirca, your time is up. You've got six seconds. I'm warning you, you have six seconds. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u4	Can I take the time that is provided for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u5	Not now. You have later, whenever you can contact on behalf of the applicants, the group that has been declared as proposing, at any time during the discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u6	I will continue and try to conclude with our explanations below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u7	Thank you very much. You received the reply from Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, by letter dated 26 October 2006. I give the floor to the Minister for the explanation of the written reply. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u8	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I also informed the public about the interpretation of my work and responsibility as Minister of Culture, submitted by the Group of Members and Members, signed on 25 September 2006 by Majdo Shirca, a month later, on 25 October 2006. In my reply to the allegations that are not recorded in the form of a clearly substantiated question, as provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but in the form of a set of claims to these readings, I am justifiably answering and rejecting them in full as general, flat-rate, misleading and unreliable. This improbability of interpolation is further reinforced by the fact that Majda Širc is the first-signed author of texts, a long-standing political worker, a former Vice-President of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, a member of the National Assembly, a member of the various committees in the National Assembly, a former saint in the Municipality of Ljubljana, former President of the Council of Slovenian Cinematheques, was president of the Slovenian Cinematheque Council at the time of preparations for the renovation of this institution. This was also undoubtedly stated by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which, in its opinion of 25 November, "in the case at hand, the Slovenian Cinematec Public Institute as a contracting authority operating under public procurement rules should not operate through public contracts with the Ravnikar - Potokar business facility, the architectural bureau, d.o.o., whose company with a business share of more than 20% is the family member of Majda Širca, who was a member of the public service council as the managing body of this contracting authority." Its conduct is not only contrary to the manifesto of the Liberal Democrats for profitless people and with ethical backgrounds for which we have stood and committed ourselves and to the electorate, as one of the champions of this party says, but this ethically controversial action also takes the credibility of the perceptions they attribute to me in interpretation. The first interpolation after two years of operation of this Government has been filed against the Minister of Culture. Therefore, according to part of the opposition, there have been such irregularities and violations that the Minister must be resolved. This, in its view, is a remarkable compliment for this Government, as the part of the opposition has clearly worked in all other areas, i.e. internal political and foreign policy, much better and despite some of the announced interpolations, this Government has been making progress so far in all those areas that directly have a much more important impact on people's well-being. Only in the cultural field, which means the spiritual upgrading of a materialized reality, should everything be wrong, especially in the work that is tangiblely real, to the one who gives the individual and the community the basis for a free and spirit free way. Interpellation to the Minister of Culture focuses a great deal of attention on culture and culture. I also think that culture is very important, and such attention will, I hope, place culture in the visual and spiritual world of the widest possible community. In it, we can recognize the core of the central state policy, on which everything depends, not least the political culture. And in terms of political culture, I would like to remind everyone, not least the viewers and viewers of this important transfer from Parliament, to pay attention to how the debate takes place, what someone says, and how the subject and content that is lost in the interpretation are maintained. Interpellators do not prove with anything that I, as Minister of Culture, violated the laws and acted to the detriment of Slovenian culture. Their findings are the product of different views on cultural policy and the result of thinking that I am responsible for some things that I am not actually responsible for. This, in my view, cannot be sufficient reason for the discharge of a minister acting in accordance with the laws for the benefit of Slovenian culture and the country. Since, in my opening half-time performance, it is not possible to reject all perceptions, there will be enough time left in the long debate to explain my arguments, I will focus on just a few points. Half of the interpretation is focused on the issue of the Law on RTV Slovenia and the functioning of this public institution. In the beginning, I need to explain the circumstances and nature of this attack and the perceptions. The law on RTV Slovenia was adopted at a referendum, which is the highest institution of democracy, and the debate on RTV Slovenia is in fact a debate on the fair and criminal outcome of the referendum. Since, in the political campaign against the law at the referendum, the draft law against defenders of the pre-marital state of RTV Slovenia was strongly ideologically devalued, but not professionally and in actual data and analyses, it is clear that such a campaign is now continuing even after the referendum, even though the logic of democratic decisions should be somewhat discontinued. Interpellation with such arguments is the continuation of the referendum campaign, although the referendum has already been carried out and the result is known. The ideological struggle with the RTV law simply won't stop. It is therefore totally inappropriate for interpolation, unless it is intended to make it clear in the interpolation that it is ideological interpolation. As such, it is understandable, but it is somewhat inappropriate for today’s and today’s legislation. In the past it would have been much more understandable and also successful, as an ideological omen could have already been a delict against social practice. In today's state of democratic practice, however, interpellation should also provide some real information on the violation of laws. In our case of Radiotelevision of Slovenia. Here it seems that the Minister's violation is still that the law was passed by referendum, while continuing the campaign against the RTV Act logically means that the pain about the political control of RTV Slovenia is genuine, as it recognises the loss of sovereignty over Slovenian national television. It was not until the interpretations showed that it really proved to be a loss, a political loss. Even if it were true that Radiotelevision now came under the political influence of another option that won the elections, this would mean that it was even more true that it had previously been under the political dictatorship of the previous options. Such a strong political influence prior to the adoption of the Law on RTV, the interpellationers had on Slovenian national television that their losses could not possibly be overcome and they were engaged in a real cultural struggle on the political autonomy of the media, which they had previously ensured by their political influence; and the loss of a national is, of course, understandable. It's a loss of inheritance. This is also clearly confirmed by correspondence between the champions of two opposition parties. The introductory attack on the Minister of Culture begins with a distinctive method, which then flows through the entire text with an accusation that the writers do not justify. Most of the charges are said to be against a case that does not have a material or factual basis, which means that it is fabricated and untrue. Thus, with this initial swing, which is the case; the implementation and one-year implementation of the RTV Slovenia Act have shown that we have gone backwards as public television in Slovenia has been abolished. In order to explain this to the hair claim at least a little, they added, the new law has enacted state or government television, as the compositions of the supervisory and programme council allow for full party and political control over the performance and management of Radiotelevision Slovenia. But this supplement is a structure that should cover up a real image that interpolation writers do not accept because what it would mean to shut down public television if it really did happen. It is simply that government officials either report on the events themselves or hire their own teams to read their wishes and send from their point of view to the homes of conscience, reports, comments and reports, as is the case in the totalitarian country, with which we have had extensive experience. However, in order for current employees and regular employees or at least a large part of these employees and regular employees to be such spineless opportunists, forgive me, of all these people on Radiotelevision Slovenia you cannot expect such a thing. And what you've done about it is that you've taken their image and character away from profiled individuals in the control and program world, of course also to journalists. Instead of respecting their identity, you hurt her. I believe that respect for the identity of journalists and others on RTV is one of the reasons why neither one nor the other body you mentioned cannot introduce or introduce television support, nor government television. Therefore, there is at least another reason, neither one authority nor another will do what you freely read to it, because this is exactly what prevents it from the Law on RTV Slovenia, which clearly requires programme plurality or programme balance of television. Last but not least, because their moral and ethical constitution does not allow it between the members of the Supervisory and Programme Council; they are reflective and mature and cannot act as accused. Therefore, none of the editors and journalists are dictated to think or limit their freedom, let alone to dismiss someone. If some new individuals have come to the leading positions, it has been a normal replacement after the expiry of the mandate for former editors and directors, such that it can be an incentive for all. The directors of television and radio programmes are top professionals, one with years of experience, the other with shorter journalistic practice, but both Democrats, as they have stated in their work, cannot therefore be labeled to allow or even wish to stop public television. And anyone can see that they have done nothing in this direction. Journalists and others on RTV work and create according to established editorial practice and their own thinking. Any decision on journalists' duties and responsibilities is a matter of editorial competence and professional standards of regulation in the public media. However, something new may only be heard in these last months more different opinions than those in the old RTV Slovenia Act. This is more of an extension, not a restriction on the free expression of all kinds of opinions. In addition, the charges against the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia unfortunately continue without a basic mark. And by the way, it's not only the Minister of Culture who's been accused of oppression, it's all the vitals of the country. However, the LDS was overheard when it pointed out the negative phenomena that the new RTV Slovenia Act would bring. And not only that, even before the adoption of the new law, there were, as they say, overheard arguments and concerns of the domestic and foreign professional public. This is one of the typical shortcuts which will be sufficient to read the text below. But let us look at this untouchable domestic and foreign professional public! First, it must be said that it is here, the truth to love, only part of the local professional public, of course those who supported the LDS. But in the public debate, someone else appeared - one who, with experts favored by the LDS, did not agree, but defamed them. But this part of the professional public does not accept the propaganda apparatus of interpolation, but rather disqualifies it and takes its credibility. This is not surprising, however, if it is known that the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is the successor of that practice, which political rivals, although it did not recognise political opponents by itself, but it did oppress them. For her, the experts were only their own, and all the others were amateurs who had backward, hostile and similar goals in the political arena. This mentality is still at home in this author's behavior. It does not want to recognise the fact that a number of individuals publicly and objectively advocated the adoption of a new Law on RTV Slovenia, although it did not agree with certain parts of the text. Thus, for the writers of the interpretation of these individuals, it is not yet today. They simply do not recognize them, even though they can prove themselves to be completely equivalent to professional research or positions on our subject, such as the texts of their competitors. They are bitterly and impatiently denying them and are still creating a space that we know from another context. Just one example: the Slovenian media pluralism and thus the RTV Act was discussed last year before the adoption of the law by a body of intellectuals in Cankarjev dom. But here he says, with the exception of some, there were no media acquaintances. So how long will it take for you to rule out those who think otherwise from your home? And about the foreign professional public. What kind of publicity was that? Can a foreign professional public be represented by one person, two or more, and in fact, what is the local professional public like if it is not able to communicate enough of its own behaviour to believe its truth, even though the vast majority of the media are on its side? And that's why she probably had to call a much more professional foreign official than she is herself. Well, if you weren't a lot of experts, it wouldn't make sense to invite him. And can you believe the findings of the Peace Institute, which yesterday in its report on the functioning of the public institution found that reporting on RTV Slovenia is relatively balanced. I admit that a good dozen introductory lines of interpolation have already disappointed me and revealed what I believe will be done, as will be seen in the discussion below. We will have to deal with a comprehensive, disorderly, structured general collection of perceptions of seemingly threatened freedom and the violence that the current authorities are relentlessly exercising. The text of the interpretation therefore begins with accusations by opposition Members of unfulfilled promises before the referendum on the Law on RTV Slovenia, among which the promise of a lower RTV contribution that the Government has not fulfilled is particularly true. This is a general and incorrect statement, which I will prove with concrete data and figures. The first information mentioned several times in the opposition's accusations of unfulfilled promises is about two and a half percent inflation in the past year. While this is a very low inflation that the current Government has successfully achieved, comparing the growth of living costs with an unaltered RTV contribution shows that the contribution has actually fallen by the amount of inflation. It has been mentioned, it is even more unclear if the amount of RTV contributions is compared to the average salary in Slovenia in each month. To begin with, I should like to inform everyone present that the RTV contribution increased on 26 March 2004, i.e. more than two and a half years ago, when there was a party in power who submitted the interpretation. In April 2004, at the last increase in the amount of the contribution, the average net salary in the Republic of Slovenia was 162,961 tolars. The amount of SIT 2,637, which was already a contribution, amounted to 1.61% of the average Slovenian salary. In September 2005, when the majority of voters at the referendum confirmed the RTV Act, the amount of SIT 2.637 amounted to exactly 1.5% of the average Slovenian salary, which at the time amounted to SIT 176.268. In June 2006, when the average salary was SIT 182.275 and the amount of RTV contribution was still the same, the percentage was only 1.44%. By the end of the year, this percentage will surely fall below 1.4%. Since the last increase in the contribution, the percentage of the contribution based on the average wage has decreased from 1.61% to 1.4%. On the basis of these data, no one can really claim that the contribution has not been reduced in real terms and that it is strong. Otherwise, anyone can freeze his salary, and he will see if after two years it has actually fallen, even though it has not dropped nominally. Therefore, proof of the real reduction of the RTV contribution is not yet over. With the new RTV Slovenia Act, the payments of contributions were fully exempt from social threats, which opposition parties never mention. According to my data, almost 500 of the most socially endangered people were already exempt from the new Act of Payment by the time the new Act was implemented. Thus, almost 500 Slovenian families no longer need to pay for their contributions, and we can say that their contribution has been markedly reduced by 100%. This allowed them only a new law on RTV Slovenia. On the basis of all of this, it is more than clear that the Government still holds the promise of a lower RTV contribution. In comparison, I will also give you an indication of the contribution from 1999 to today. The former Government, whose Members are now interpolating against me because we are not nominally lowering the contribution, is very regular and often raised the level of the contribution. Thus, by amending and supplementing the law of RTV Slovenia on 29 October 1999, it increased its contribution to 2,171 SIT, then, following a decision to amend the amount of contributions to RTV programmes, increased its contributions as follows: 1 March 2000 to 2.236 SIT, 31 August 2001 to 2.395 SIT, 30 August 2002 to 2.467 SIT, 30 May 2003 to 2,548 SIT and lastly, 26 March 2004 to 2.637 SIT, which it still stands for today. Thus, the previous Government increased its contribution seven times in four and a half years, from SIT 2.171 to SIT 2.637. However, the contribution has not yet been increased during the present government period. At the same time, another piece of information is irrelevant. With the majority of voters in the referendum supporting the implementation of the new law, the government also received a certain commitment to the electorate. The Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative stipulates that the National Assembly is bound to the outcome of the referendum and that one year after the referendum, it cannot adopt a law contrary to the outcome of the referendum. Before the referendum, we knew this, of course, which is another proof that promises of a lower contribution did not mean a nominal reduction in the contribution, but rather a real one, which I have just proved on several occasions. In addition, I must say that in the public institution of RTV Slovenia, the consequences of meeting the government's promise at the time of the referendum are already being demonstrated. In the past year, RTV lost more than 600 million tolars due to its nominally modified contribution, thus earning as much as 55 million less each month. So much for the RTV contribution. The opposition has made many other things clear to me in interpreting about RTV Slovenia, about the programme, about human resources matters and so on. Despite the fact that the current Government is not interfering with RTV Slovenia's editorial and programming activities, I have also obtained some information from this area, which I will be able to use in the debate to reject readings. So far, so much for RTV Slovenia. The second point I would like to draw attention to in this brief introduction is the rejection of the findings regarding Kobilna Lipica. I do not intend to repeat what I wrote in my reply to the interpolation and, in that regard, to reject unwarranted allegations, but I would like to point out the continuous distortion of facts and manipulations that appear in public about Lipica, which is contributed by the authors of the interpolation. Many flat-rate and unrealistic evaluations try to justify one week with the thesis, and I quote that "freedom of expression is an important part of a democratic society even if information or opinion given is shocking, critical, inaccurate and perhaps even unrealistic." So, the former official of Kobilarna Lipica, who is supposed to care for the preservation of natural and cultural heritage, thinks that journalists may not be telling the truth if it contributes to the effective functioning of democracy. Such tended articles and statements cloud reality and conceal my own incompetence, so let me tell you what the state of Lipica has been and what has been done to date. Most of the problems in Lipica are due to the long-standing mismanagement of the Kobilarna and insufficient care of the founder, each time government coalitions, which through individual government departments carried out inconsistent and uncoordinated protection and development policies of Kobilarna. The lowest point was reached by suspending the financing from the casino concession, which was carried out on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court in 2003, and by means of a proposal to amend the law on Kobilna Lipica, which, if adopted, would result in a substantial reduction in the level of insurance and allow the transformation of the public institution into an undertaking to which it would also transfer all real estates in the protected area. You can ask yourself where such an initiative for such a marriage came from. In this mandate, the government has taken the matter of Kobilana Lipica seriously. At the beginning of the previous year, it set up a programme of measures to regulate the situation, which it takes step by step, and in particular implements this year's protection and development programme 2006-2011, with the highest support for the normalisation of horses and horses, while at the same time supporting efforts to improve the cost-effectiveness and better management of state property. In particular, the correctness of such a decision and direction is reflected in the progress made by Kobilar Lipica with new leadership in recent months. Let me just list the condition Lipica was in in 2005 at the beginning of January. It was a huge financial loss, incomplete records in a herd of Lipizzans, only one team of riders and horses for training programs. In 350 horses, less than 10 were suitable for tourist riding. There was no horse for the children's program. The loaves have been neglected, poorly cleansed, unblemished, dirty, 17 horses have been removed from the stables for a year or so, and no one has dealt with them. The surrounding area is completely neglected, buys a chase in front of the barn, and the trainee's visit has been in decline. The hotels were practically empty, the restaurant was not cost-effective. Those who were supposed to care for the cultural landscape and who were the main opponents of all of this did not notice that pasture areas had been grown, more than 100 tonnes of oats and hay had been forgotten in various warehouses. The tree fund was completely neglected and was in decline. Wild skeletons in the parks have abounded. Oaks on pastures are drying. For years, no one has cared about the removal of ferrets and slaves. The restoration of the most representative monument of the city was unfinished. The cleaning device didn't work. The former representative facilities were used as a cafeteria. The castle garden was neglected. Uncleaned and healed were pathways inside the property. The relationship was weak. And we could list it. The government has done the following things this year to improve this situation. In March 2005, so last year, it adopted a Decision on the resolution of the situation at 16 points, 14 of which have been implemented. An analysis of the possibility for the status transformation of Kobilarna was prepared. A programme of protection and development, etc. was adopted. On horseback and horseback, Kobilna needed a quarantine area, for this purpose the government gave her up guard in Lipica. A thorough examination of the herd was carried out, the arrangements for the lipican records. Inventory of all horses according to their abilities and purposes was made. The health care of horses has been improved. An external expert assessment of riders and horses was made. Clearer is the delimitation of powers and responsibilities between trainers, riders, horsemen and groomsmen. More horses are available for tourist riding. There's a children's program in place. Older, injured or sick horses, who no longer left the boxing grounds after all, were given to private pasture breeders and thus made room for the next generation. The training tour is now on Saturdays. About 90 hectares of pastures and grasslands have been cleaned. At the same time, manure was emptied and cleaned, which had previously penetrated the karst caves. It was renovated by the hippodrome, and a project for a new cleaning plant is being prepared. Cooperation has been established with other cobial plants, in particular with Pibro and similar in Europe, and contacts with European cobillaries have been mentioned. I could also mention it, and there will be an opportunity for me to reply in further debate. In my view, given the two-year successful work at the Ministry of Culture, which proves both financial and substantive positive movements, let me just repeat once again that I reject all the impressions recorded in the interpretation as unfounded.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Following is a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Minister of Culture Dr. Vasko Simoniti, Members and Members of Parliament! Interpellation on the work and responsibility of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, lists in 11 points cases of disrespect for the rule of law, violation of freedom of expression this year and disrespect for cultural heritage. All these findings are severe and are mainly based on newspaper articles, magnetogram extracts, parliamentary questions, public statements and their interpretations and are not supported by evidence and material means. However, we cannot simply overlook them, and it is our duty to decide whether the Minister of Culture is still trustworthy to lead this department, as the final outcome of this discussion depends on the continued cooperation of the National Assembly with the Minister himself and with the Government. However, we believe that consensus needs to be reached on whether a replacement is really necessary. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that much has been done in the area covered by the Ministry of Culture in this mandate. Many regulations have been prepared and adopted, but unfortunately in many matters the Ministry did not listen sufficiently to other professional reflections and used them as corrections. If we try to compare the content of the interpolation and the response to it with the actual state we are witnessing to it, we can find that the findings regarding the media, the staffing and autonomy of the film institutions are inaccurate and not sufficiently thought out. We note, however, that, in particular, the law affecting the media area, the Media Act and the RTV Act were prepared with a lack of respect for the professional public. With regard to the obvious fact that the new Law on Cobile Lipica allows for the removal of the cultural landscape, the protected area of cobial and cobial nature as an exceptional cultural heritage, and the evidence of the illegality of the programme for the protection and development of kobile Lipica, which includes the construction of a new or expanding golf course, we agree with DeSUS Members. For we believe that a greater degree of care is needed in the area of marriage change in order to fully respect the principle of the protection of this real estate heritage. We are pleased that it is precisely because of the fear that the basic activity of the Kobilar Lipica will die out in the long term, that there have already been two initiatives at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia to initiate the procedure for assessing the constitutionality of this novel, which has also been adopted by the Court, and to avoid any difficult remedial consequences, it has also delayed the implementation of the provisions of the novel and the programme for the protection and development of Kobilirna Lipica. The further fate of one of our most beautiful cultural historical monuments in Slovenia is therefore in the hands of constitutional judges, and the solution will have to wait. Nevertheless, in our Group of Members, we believe that when weighing positive achievements as well as any evidence, positive results are weighed. We are convinced that Minister Simoniti has already taken up the relevant experience and also those messages that need to be taken into account in further work from the entire public debate, even before the interpretation, at the same time today. We believe that interpretation is more about a move that is supposed to have political effects than it is about a intention that could actually find out and justify that the Minister has committed massive violations of the Constitution and the laws and thus has caused harmful consequences to people and the country. While we understand the political objectives and intentions of the opposition in our parliamentary group, we believe that interpellation does not have a legal basis, it does not contain legally relevant facts to substantiate the reported irregularities. Despite some of the uncertainties and inadequacy of the interpretation itself, as well as the shortcomings of the Minister's response to it, we assess that there are no reasons to define why it is necessary to support interpretation. At the same time, it is worth noting that the correct assessment will only be possible on the basis of the very course of the debate, the arguments on both sides. However, irrespective of the groundless interpretation, it is likely to speed up the regulation of one of the perceived acts. At the same time, in the DeSUS Group, the Minister is expected to make further efforts to address all relevant and even less important issues relating to his work area in a professional manner and through the dialogue of all stakeholders.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Grims on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u12	Dear President, Honourable Minister with a colleague, dear colleague and colleague, I would like to greet everyone with a nice greeting, especially a nice greeting to all viewers and viewers! Transfers are a good thing, which we will soon be able to see. First of all, allow me to say a great deal of recognition and gratitude to those who have formed this interpolation, as well as to all those who deserve it, on this symbolic day, the birthday of totalitarian Yugoslavia, November 29th, we are discussing the suspension of the cultural minister of the independent state of Slovenia. I must say that this is very symbolic and very in the context of the text of the interpretation tabled. You should certainly not be disturbed by this, because the last nail in the coffin to anyone who believed in your positive attitude towards Slovenian culture, you were killed yesterday when you, with your banishment, with a 45-minute break required without any need, made it impossible for those of us who were most interested in showing honor to the great poet Simon Gregorčič at the 100th anniversary of his death to attend the celebration. It is, in some ways, a very symbolic act, a fine reflection of your political culture, as well as a general attitude towards culture in Slovenia. It's right that people know that. What is a red thread of this interpolation, which is written very colorfully, with rich vocabulary, interesting, reads well and thus represents an interesting, appropriate contribution to Slovenian literature, is that it is mainly about the media. It is obvious here that those who designed this are burdened in some way with media control. But what's interesting is they're reading it to the Minister of Culture right now. Let's take a look at this from practice, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, please be honest with yourself, proposers of this interpretation, but tell us whether anyone among you honestly believes that someone in Slovenia who will believe you that, say, Dr. Vasko Simoniti as Minister of Culture has given a mandate to perform in all the central media regarding a Roma family has been saying "reality show" for some time now and it is reported in a yellow print way, so that there is no smart solution, which, of course, will then give a very strange light to the whole country at home and abroad. I don't know if you think anyone will believe that Vasko Simoniti is responsible for this, but repeat this as many times as possible. What absurdity this "reality show" has already come to, perhaps just as interesting. Yesterday, in all the central newspapers, the first news was that nothing important happened to a Roma family that day, and this was much more important news than the launch of the NATO Summit in Riga, which is being assessed by all the central world newspapers as historical and attended by a large Slovenian Government delegation headed by the President of the Slovenian Government, Mr. Janez Janša. If you are confident that someone will believe that this news is behind that first, extremely important news that no Romani family has ever happened this day, then repeat it as often as possible, perhaps someone will believe you. But as for the truth and who controls the media, it is probably already quite clear from this rhetoric. If, in their interpretation, the Minister had been informed that nothing had changed in the media in recent years, then this should be considered very seriously. But if you give him control and censorship of the media, of course it is a matter of making everyone who knows this little smiles to tears. The mere filing of the interpolation shows this wonderfully. Let's freshen up the memory. There was a special period when both the intervention against the Minister of Culture, Mr Vask Simoniti, and against the Minister of Health, Dr Bručan, was tabled. Elections were coming, of course, local elections. And whoever believes that this investment was accidental and unrelated, let them just believe it. But what's interesting is reporting to the media. When the interpolation was filed, it was central news. On all televisions, it was practically the most important first news that night. However, when the parties gave an official response or an official response was given on behalf of the coalition, this was reported in the late night hours of the bloc dedicated to local elections. Interesting, very interesting criteria. We'll have to make a decision. If interpellation is a pre-election campaign for local elections, which is said to be a lot of arguments, then of course we should report interpolation and responses to it in a block dedicated to local elections in an equivalent manner. However, if this is not the case, then both the interpretation and the responses to them should be reported again in an equivalent manner in, we could call it, "prime this" reports and, of course, the equivalent space in the print media. Well, as far as this has happened, it's probably way too far to explain. Perhaps it is also clear from this who actually controls the media, whether to use even better the term "still" controls to a large extent. But who wants to control them even more clearly is clear from one story that, in my firm belief in the past 15 years, is not a couple anywhere in the EU, because we are now an equivalent part of the EU. The LDS Secretary-General, a party who even has an interpretation of the full fight for the rights to journalistic freedom, to freedom of public and written words, demanded that the Saturday annex of the Work cease briefly and slightly to be one of the important media in Slovenia, because their desire to publish a special interview with their Ljubljana mayor candidate, who, by the way, totally burned in the elections, was 1%, which could have been a lot of suction. It was an editorial decision based on surveys that proved this further, and this was clearly demonstrated. But this is ignored, and there is a requirement to stop the release of the public newspaper. Yes, this is indeed a struggle for freedom of public expression and journalistic independence. That's what I have to say. In this way, of course, you have interpelled your own interpolation before this formal discussion in this House even began. Besides, you've already done the fundamental one yourself, you might say, the original sin that this interpolation has, because you've clearly pre-choiced it because you've filed it in the campaign itself. But more than that, you've chosen a very special day. You chose the date on which the referendum on RTV Slovenia was held a year ago. And now I'm going to the second part of this story where this interpolation has another interesting trait. In the text of the interpretation, which is supposed to talk about the work of the Minister for Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, my name and my last name are mentioned almost as many times as it is his, which is certainly a unique case in the history of this House. Why did this happen? For all those who have read or listen to some very interesting interpretations of things recently a year ago, let me very clearly define some things, but please don't let anyone be offended in any way, it is necessary to do so because I will then draw some argument from this, which is very much related to the key interpretative arguments. The law on RTV Slovenia, you know that I was actually the main author who wrote it, was confirmed at the referendum. I was the author of this marriage in its entirety, and what is now going on somewhere is that it was written by Klemen Jakič and so on is pure nonsense. The entire text, based on the first to the last word, was written on my part, with press errors worth, later this text was corrected, in the course of the government procedure completed, but about 90% of the text and all the basic solutions are exactly as I wrote them myself. As far as this law is concerned, these indications in the interpretation are justified. It is interesting, however, that in all ways he tries to attach himself to me in the Media Law, because in the Media Law I was not the author, colleague and colleague. This is the text that has been fully produced in the services of the Ministry of Culture, and of which you know this very well, because this has occurred in your time, a great deal has been created even at the time when you were still in power. By the way, you have very good information from the Ministry of Culture, you know as well as yourself, because there are quite a few people there who are also at the peace institute, which I hope will not be left behind and say you are not close. I'm not saying this because of you, but because of the public, there will be no misunderstanding. Even after the referendum itself, I was far more exposed for many reasons. It was also a matter of this conceptual battle, since it was necessary to use a conceptual vocabulary with which this could then be advocated, although it was a very interesting publicity that was present at that time. Maybe I didn't even want to play those roles. I was paid for special circumstances, but if I already got it, I tried to pull it out as best I could, and at the referendum, if I use it in the first form, I was a winner. Not alone, with all those who voted in favour of this law, with all those who have worked hard for me, with all my fellow Members and colleagues from the parliamentary group who have stood by me and with all those who later joined this page in this fight. But I have to say that ever since then, so much manure has spilled on me personally that it's really hard to bear on the human side, and I wouldn't say that I'm some kind of person who's really not sensitive to these things. But it's very embarrassing, you know, if whoever lied to you based on their lies to a liar. That this has happened, however, colleagues and colleagues, but I will return to the text of the interpretation that is now ahead of us. In fact, anything else, because I want to leave a lot of room for my colleagues and colleagues from the SDS Group of Members, I will leave it at this moment. I will only talk about one more matter that my name was mentioned most frequently last year. In recent times, however, this has mainly been the case with the Minister of Culture. This is a matter of RTV contribution. She's always getting involved in saying that we haven't told the truth to the public and that we've been misleading her. This was a personal observation on the basis of which, in particular, those who feel in the public media are called to attach themselves to your political statements and to give nothing to anyone who thinks or even proves otherwise that the situation is as I now describe it. Let's see what happened to this thing. All those who followed the story of the RTV contribution campaign, you know that this claim, that it means voting a new law, lowering the RTV contribution than paying it under the old law, appeared somewhere in the early autumn. But here's the essential way of a colleague and a colleague. And let's go after the dates, I have everything here, if you want, I can reproduce it for you. And if you want, we can still look at the footage of some press conference, because it's all very well reasoned and believe it, every moment is proveable. I'll read the date first - 1.9.2005. Then I told the public, "To pour ourselves some pure wine, first some facts. The current Law on RTV Slovenia was adopted in 1994 and was substantially amended in connection with the payment of the RTV contribution by amending the Law in 1999. This is precisely the novel that meant a grave intervention in the autonomy of journalists and to which I then applied to RTV Slovenia journalists in the State Council. Regrettably, he was later vetoed in the National Assembly because of the insistence of then Minister Jožef Školč and his Secretary of State Majda Širc, both of whom, of course LDS, were voted out. It was the gravest intervention in journalistic autonomy, as the journalists themselves determined to do so at the time, to insist on LDS. At that time, the old RTV Slovenia Act laid down the principle that the amount of RTV contribution could be aligned to inflation. The increase in RTV contribution due to inflation growth was decided by the Government on a proposal from the Council of RTV Slovenia. And RTV Slovenia understood this as some kind of automaticism, as evidenced by constant protests by RTV Slovenia authorities, because raising RTV contributions did not always follow inflation. In the new RTV Slovenia Act, this is no longer the case, and the law will therefore no longer provide any legal basis for a permanent increase or increase in RTV contribution due to inflation. The only possibility of a change made by law is a temporary measure by the Government, which can last up to a year and with which it can change the amount of up to 10% in a positive or negative direction, but only in the case of business disruptions of RTV Slovenia, it is said, in the case of certain special circumstances which are now being improved by the operation of RTV Slovenia, of course, it is not by any chance that old practices based on this old law are difficult to die, but, of course, you can also follow yourself when you read the statements of the visible representatives of RTV Slovenia today, who would still want a greater RTV contribution, which, of course, without changing the law, cannot be permanently raised. However, the amendments to the law in this House, I say that it is impossible to accept, at least personally, I would have done anything to prevent this from happening, even if anyone had tried. That's interesting. A few days later, we had a special press conference where we explained these mechanisms in detail. We said everything exactly in percentages, but only the day after that is A yes, I have to add that, of course, reporting was so that it could be summarized in one sentence. [[...]] Virtually all the media, with the honorable exception of some that I will not wrong anyone, wrote only this: "Grims still claims that the new law will reduce the RTV contribution." If this report is in line with what has been said, because it has also been transmitted in writing to every media, then we can have an opinion on such an editorial policy. Personally, I would prefer not to express it at this time, but interestingly, that such a report, which I believe is a reflection of the political influence of LDS in the central public newspapers, was then used by the LDS Group to accuse me of deliberately misleading the public and that I have no idea how this has been done so far. Or do I read you the whole story again, and you will see that it is exactly what it was? But this is not the end of the matter. This letter, in which I was literally accused of being a liar, was published practically in all media in Slovenia. Because I believed that I was living in a state of law, then I wrote a correction and demanded this right to correction and an answer as my constitutional right. Interestingly, guess how many media in Slovenia have published this correction. Radio Slovenia published that letter twice, my correction nothing. Just to make sure I'm not talking about everything else. But it's interesting how TV Slovenia published it. This is because I then illustrate how this progresses. I will read this because it is a phenomenal formulation: "A Member of the Slovenian Democrats and a proposal for a new law on RTV, Branko Grims - I am not a proponent, I was able to say the author, and the proponent was a minister or government - replied to members of the Liberal Democracy Jožef Školč and Aleš Gulic, who wrote that Grims deliberately misleads the public about adapting the RTV contribution to inflation. Grims wrote in his reply that the current law lays down a principle whereby the amount of the contribution may be consistent with inflation, which is also evidenced by the RTV protests, because coordination has not been fully carried out. As Grimes says, the new law does not contain this provision." I can read my whole correction for you so that you can understand what was in this amendment. Once again, everything we need to know about these mechanisms has been written. From what I have read to you right now - this is, by the way, a quote from TV Slovenia 1 - and it was probably not clear to anyone on this Earth what was actually going on. And then, of course, on the basis of such a launched lie, a floscule, a lie that we are hearing today, that I have promised nominally, that is, in numbers, a reduction in the RTV contribution. Because those two MPs wrote in their letter or in a press release before saying that it would be a 5% reduction. Where did they get this number, I have no idea, because no one's ever talked about any such number. But in Slovenia, if someone from the LDS says that, or from a party close to them, it is accepted as sacred truth. And then everybody's just paralyzing it, they're using it as an argument. But to look at what someone actually said and check it out, that very rarely happens. And so we can look at things from a constitutional point of view, this story that I'm telling you right now, because this story is also written in interpretation. So what was the story of the RTV contribution - that I did it myself, and I know that the minister did it later, too, very clearly and quite honestly told what the old law meant and what the new law meant. According to the old law he was already prepared - if you do not believe, go on RTV check - a proposal for an additional raise of RTV contribution, which, of course, then they did not hope to send into the procedure, because this would be an excellent argument to the candidates of the referendum, so to speak, the new Law on RTV Slovenia. That these trends are present all the time, I say again, is also evidenced by the current statements of the present, a new set that would still want a higher RTV contribution. Of course, who wouldn't want any more money? This is said, as we say, when we go to a constitutional point of view, you yourself, when you were silent, with your media power, violated the constitutional right of citizens and citizens to correct and comprehensive information. This is the first thing to say very clearly. Then you launched an untruth with your own media power, and you did it another time. And when I wanted to exercise my constitutional right to correction and answer, with your media power, colleagues and colleagues from LDS, you achieved that practically did not happen; and you did it for the third time. And to prove that you have an incredible sense of humor, then you wrote it down as a statement in the text that is before us. And now you come to me, on the basis of that lie you started about me and you've been petting me for a year now I'm voting against Dr. Vask Simoniti's Minister of Culture. Yeah, what the hell! Be serious! So much for these indications in this interpolation. I can prove that with all this material. I think reading has been enough; if anyone wants, he can have it with me to see for himself. Certainly, however, it is clear from this what is the value of legal claims of interpolation, since interpolation is supposed to be a legal act based on legally verifiable and verifiable facts. The legal aspect of this interpolation is nothing. And of course, on the basis of nothing, it is not possible to make a decision. Therefore, it is probably quite clear that, as far as I am concerned, I will certainly support Minister Vask Simoniti and, of course, I can also claim this with all responsibility on behalf of the entire SDS Group. I wish you good luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u13	Mr Aleš Gulič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u14	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, guests. Of course, I'll be much shorter than my colleague Grimes was. I'm not going to start autotherapy here, but there's something I'd like to say about who the interpolation is and who filed it. Interpellation was introduced by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Mrs. Majda Shirca is the first to sign. We filed it against the minister, who, in his first sentences today, said how cultural and civilised he was, who had not had the text, but went to disqualify the esteemed colleague Majdo Shirco with things that had been cleared long ago. And he repeated, repeated and repeated the Repetitia mother studious est. That's what they used to say, but of course it doesn't always apply. [[...]] Later, they found that 100 times repeated lies could be true. Of course this is happening. Now we're really going to the interpolation. At the time of the referendum on the Law of RTV Slovenia, we announced that the Minister would change the Radiotelevision of Slovenia from public to state, as it thus increased government coalition control over the management and management of RTV Slovenia and, of course, also over cultural policy in RTV Slovenia, which is proof, if nothing, of yesterday's Pyramid, of the culture of Slovenians we have in recent times, of what culture of communication, what culture of coexistence we want. Of course, it is now quite clear on television that there are many restrictions, pressures, biases, silences to disappear, of course, such broadcasts that carry a comment, that there is so many repetitions that one no longer knows, or dreams or actually watches television, that they repeat what serious television houses publish on DVD media for those who are of course interested in some history. Here it is all set to a level that tells how RTV can remain nominally the same. It has become nominally the same as the milk we are now buying. Neither did the price of milk change, but the packaging says 950 milliliters, nothing says one liter anymore. So the milk could be preserved. And that's how RTV was preserved. Instead, for the same nominal amount we get less, we get everything that has already been chewed and examined a hundred times. We are looking at the third programme on the second programme, so we have some innovation again. That's great. There's something else to see. The coalition with the minister was deaf to our warnings that they would not be able, technically, physically, to obtain a picture, not frequency, but money for it. Of course, the program is certainly not better. Take a look at the ratings. Not the ones you compare with POP TV, but with A channel, I don't know who else, but with my own house, how much more is watched, how much less RTV program Slovenia 1 or 2 is watched, and you will see the result. The government coalition with the Minister of Culture at the head and, of course, even more at the head of Mr Janez Janša, who appointed such a minister of culture, has deceived and lied. The minister with a billion tolars then tries to influence the media at another level without clear criteria and without an appropriate professional commission. With the Kobilana Lipica Act, the minister allowed cultural and natural heritage to be endangered in Lipica. But luckily, the Constitutional Court stopped the law before it could cause damage. The Minister does not respect the basic strategic document in the area of the cultural national programme and can then successfully avoid a number of obligations. The Minister of Culture doesn't know what the language sector does to him. He does not know, let's say that in Brussels, the Slovenian language became a different language among Slovenian schoolchildren, not a learning language, but a learning language, with only 20% of the hours available to Slovenian pupils in Slovenia. You'll say, it's a matter of God to which minister. Yeah, but there's a language sector there that's supposed to take care of Slovenian. The minister ignores all of this, or maybe, I don't know, maybe they won't tell him. The Minister performed a number of harmful political recruitments, both in the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, in Lipica, in the Film Fund, Slovenian Cinematheque, and of course also at home in his house, when he was sweeping before the threshold, after the apartment, after the rooms, after the cellar and at the attic. After the adoption of the RTV Act, appropriate staffing takes place at the Public Institute of RTV as well as in other media. Back then, in the first debates, we warned that RTV would be just an example for other media. Where forced migration does not occur, so-called voluntary migration occurs. Look at the way the press migrates. The desire to suspend the editors on RTV was so great that even in the statute they reduced the mandate, without things being more windy, where there was nothing yet to be done, but it went into what was in the D.D.-Evictions. Of course, the Minister is pleased to support tax reforms that, inter alia, eliminate tax incentives for individuals to invest in culture, and the abolition of 2% is facilitated for various purposes, including culture. This will certainly result in consequences, not tomorrow, perhaps not tomorrow, but certainly very soon. In particular, with this takeover of the media, the Minister intervened gravely in the plurality of Slovenian society achieved. He reached for freedom, freedom of creators, and freedom of those we need in the media. With the help of both laws, both media laws are said to control them at both substantive and organisational levels. Apparently, from a history where an expert has learned a great deal and knows that he can also rehearse, repeat, revive in such beautiful spirals. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will request the resignation of the Minister for Culture and we will also vote in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u15	The word is "ma'am mag." Expenditure on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Madam Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Group of Social Democrats has already announced, in its first responses to the news of the intervention of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, that the proposal for a decision, which is very short and that Dr Vasko Simoniti will be dismissed from his role as Minister for Culture, will be supported. The examination of the interpolation and the response of the Minister for Culture to it has not changed our original decision. The Minister's refusal of all perceptions is expected for the Social Democrats' Group to react to the interpolation and the impact of the coalition's power in the National Assembly and therefore the outcome of the vote is predictable. However, we believe that the complete response to the interpolation is integrated at the beginning of the explanation, as the interpolation manifests a formal irregularity, referring to paragraphs 253 and 250 of the Rules of Procedure. With this, the Minister not only burned investors with a raised pedagogical indicator, but, last but not least, the President of the National Assembly, who proposed placing the interpretation on the agenda of the National Assembly. Of course, it gives us a clue as to how we need to read interpellation. I quote: "Dear Members who have read the current interpretation will know that it is somewhat different, generalised, flat-rate and may be similar to a series of newspaper articles, it deals with a number of issues, and does not generally support their statements or statements with documentary evidence. So it is a collection of completely political perceptions." [[End of story.]] Since there have been a number of Members in the National Assembly since the previous term, and they are likely to have had no memory, and the experience with interpolation has also gained quite a bit from the coalition in the past, the Minister's opinion shows a patronizing attitude towards all, not just the interpolation investors. Nevertheless, it points out that in the Group of Social Democrats we see these ministers as blank, even though we have not overlooked his purpose, to evaluate the interlocutors and their views from the outset. The inability to engage in dialogue is also the first observation we make to the Minister and which casts a shadow on the entire two-year work. Tomorrow it will be exactly two years since he presented himself to the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport and did not gain the support of the Social Democrats, not least because of the tone of communication and the lack of respect for Parliament's legislative role. This has been demonstrated in particular in relation to the legislation adopted and its belief that the election victory of the coalition can also be used to amend the adopted acts without the inclusion of the National Assembly. This is demonstrated in particular by his attitude towards the National Programme for Culture. This was confirmed even more by the adoption of laws on RTV, on the media and on Kobilina Lipica. These are three of the five laws he's introduced into the procedure. In this case, however, it is not only a failure to respect the opposition, but rather an expert and other interested public, who generally did not get enough time and space for their comments. It was more about the apparent involvement of civil society, which, although allowed to comment, was not taken into account as a rule. And although the warnings were very serious, although they were not only from the local professional public but also from international professional circles, they were minimized, often mocked. The practice of our concern confirms. It is not surprising that laws are the subject of a constitutional judgment. The Constitutional Court has already repealed the second paragraph of Article 15 of the RTV Act; the implementation of the Kobalanska Lipica Act has been suspended. Therefore, in the Social Democrats Group, we ask ourselves whether the Minister has forgotten the oath he made when he was appointed to act for the welfare of Slovenia and not just his electoral body. In the light of recent developments, however, what it is like to make commitments under the code of ethics. That is why the Social Democrats are not blinded and we know that the Minister of Coalition is untouchable because he helped carry out a campaign on the media. That this is his priority, at the time of presentation and also when adopting the RTV Act, neither he nor the ruling coalition hid it. Since the minister was the proposer of the law, he also took full responsibility for it. Therefore, the Social Democrats only note that all the concerns we had at the time of the adoption of the law have been confirmed. Let me just remember what we warned about in the RTV Act. First time. Disqualification of Slovenian residential associations and even international journalistic associations is the most obvious ignorance of the public, which is intended for the public service. The role of RTV, which I say is "the remaining central institution of Slovenia and an important factor of social cohesion in the field of culture and information and as such a key element of modern national identity", is therefore at risk. At the presentation on the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, the Minister expressed dissatisfaction with public television and the media in general, stressing the demand for pluralisation of the media and an increase in the scope of the information policy programme on RTV to 10% to 15%. At that time, he felt that there was dissatisfaction, again I quote, "with some pyramidal arrangement of this house with internal responsibilities, with financial problems and not least with content", the end of the sentence. The law, however, introduced purely pyramidal leadership in the most consistent way. The director-general at the top of the pyramid brings together the program, professional management and business of the institution, appoints the director of radio and television and also appoints and disposes of the responsible editors on the proposal of the director of radio or television. It is therefore crucial who appoints the Director-General. This is a programme council, which is a policy choice, as 21 members of the programme council have elected the National Assembly since 29th, although five have been proposed by politics and 16 civil society. Third time. The law abolishes civil governance of public RTV and brings the transition to state or political. The election of more than two-thirds of the members of the Programme Council in the National Assembly has a policy impact on the RTV programming guidelines, whether we want to recognise it or not. What are the consequences of this for the independence of journalistic work, but it is a rather different question. Fourth time. The composition and manner of the elections of the authorities in the institution shall be designed in such a way as to designate the supervisory authorities or the management bodies of the institution, so that they cannot be overlooked by the dominant influence of the policy. Under the full control of the Government, there is also a subscription or contribution, which, despite the full politicisation of the supervisory board, in terms of independence, has therefore taken a major step back in both governance and funding. RTV should be a carrier when switching from analogue to digital technology if we are to maintain the principle of accessibility for all social groups. Digitalisation is mentioned only in the co-financing of certain projects from the state budget. The financing of programmes of particular importance has also not been resolved. While the law lists everything that national public service programmes must contain. However, it does not lay down such organisational and financial frameworks that it can be recorded. A special chapter is the third programme, which the advocates of the law are convinced will bring a great deal of quality improvement and should be financed from TV sales. Only when that happens, we don't know. Reports on monitoring the operation of RTV Slovenia following the adoption of a new law by the Peace Institute confirm that the expected effects are already showing or at least the direction of action. Unfortunately, not in the direction the coalition predicted when it called for a referendum. Since this report was also referred to by the Minister, I hope that this source will not be disputed. However, I apologize to the authors of both reports for stating only some passages with which I wish to confirm exactly what the law has brought. The first report states: "The review of the appointments of members of the Programme and Supervisory Board in accordance with the new Law on RTV shows that procedures in the National Assembly, in which the highest number is appointed, have been carried out transparently, but that the composition of the National Assembly of the appointed members of the Programme Council of Civil Society and the discovery of the List of Names, which instructed the Member of the ruling Coalition in the Mandate-Electorial Commission to surround, confirmed the announcements of critics of the Law on the harmonised majority of elections of government-oriented individuals and individuals. This is further strengthened by the composition of the Supervisory Board, which, following the new adoption of the Statute of RTV Slovenia and, inter alia, has the right to take a look at all the documents of the public institution. In the Supervisory Board, the National Assembly appointed even two of the five representatives on the proposal of the largest government party SDS, although the law provides that the National Assembly should take into account the representation of political parties in the National Assembly when appointing its representatives. We could say that the National Assembly has violated the RTV Slovenia Act in the selection of its representatives in the supervisory council of RTV Slovenia." And another reference to this report is: "So far, human resources change has led to leadership on Radio and Television, which, irrespective of professional competence, cannot deny the political blessing of the government coalition to be elected. Also in the programming and control board, alternative functions were not acquired by personnel who would be critical of the government coalition or of its view of RTV Slovenia, as presented in the debate on the new law." And now I am touching this last report of the Peace Institute covering the period from May to the end of November. Due to time limitation only some indications. "An example of the requirement for state-owned television, the redundancy of the requirement to avoid the display of totalitarian systems in an appropriate way and the requirement to enforce humorists who will meet certain criteria, however, are such that they are not yet tangible in the programme, but are possible signs of an attempt to ideoligize it." This is when assessing the functioning of the programming board. Now for what it's about statutes. The longer part, the shorter the quote. "All the shortcomings of the RTV Slovenia Act and the unwillingness of the bill's proposer to listen to expertly justified comments, including comments from civil society, shall be demonstrated. Many of the complicated writers of the Statute would have been removed if the law had regulated a number of issues, including some legal and technical ones, which had been given timely warning and even proposed better solutions, including those that do not have ideological or valuable prognosis. The fundamental point is that the new statute of RTV Slovenia applies asymmetrically but still not sufficiently flexible the organisation of the public institution, in particular at the level of organisational and editorial production units. On the other hand, which is positive, it simplifies certain levels of decision-making. Better define the responsibilities and responsibilities of managers and leaders," I quote in order not to be seen as merely stating weaknesses. When it comes to the competences of the programming board on programming standards, the Peace Institute notes: "Professional standards and criteria will be if written in the form of direct professional instructions to employed journalists and editors, a form of interference with the programme. Thus, a multi-level, intertwined and opaque decision-making network is being created, which has so far brought about the development, clear direction and better organisation of programmes, and thus a more cost-effective and rational use of human resources and production capacities. The multi-level decision-making network also appears at the regional centres." On the separation of public service financial operations: "The financial performance of the public service as provided for in Article 87 of the Statute is insufficiently defined. The law on RTV Slovenia defines the public service by listing the programmes and programme content that are part of the public service. In determining which areas belong in the context of the operation of RTV Slovenia, which is financed by public funds, we would therefore need more precise indications." This was just a few indications from which it can be demonstrated that the RTV Act was adopted either in violation or poorly imposed the provisions to which we warned the opposition at that time. Since other points of interpretation will be touched by a colleague and colleagues, allow me to touch on just one more point that I have made in the beginning and I want to prove that Minister Simoniti has shown too little respect for the legislative procedure in the National Assembly. The National Cultural Programme for the period 2004-2007 was adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia as its resolution and expressed its will on the perspective, role, tasks, orientation, development, investment and financing of culture and art. On this occasion, the National Assembly has explicitly stressed that it trusts in the implementation of the National Programme for Culture to the Government as a whole, to all ministries and not only to the Ministry of Culture. It also ordered the Government to submit reports on the implementation of the National Programme for Culture, which it will then consider, by 1 June, by 1.6.2005 and by 1.6.2006. The first date was delayed, the second was not. The 2004 report is launched at the end of the introduction with a national programme for culture. The introduction to the report is clear from the programme that it is not a real strategic document, that it does not provide the basis for strategic cultural movements, that it is not European-oriented and that there is no methodology for monitoring, implementation, gold, or the collection of key data. According to these devastating estimates, which are not evalable or proven in the next 70 pages, the report goes one step further and wonders whether a national programme for culture needs to be complemented or amended. Whether to send a new and more appropriate national cultural programme as a strategic document into the procedure or simply repeal the revised Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. These are all pretentious and unproductive dilemmas. The National Programme for Culture was adopted as a binding resolution in the National Assembly, without a vote against the resolution on the national programme for culture supported by Members and Members of the coalition and opposition. Only Rudy Shelig was able to produce a more comprehensive document, which unfortunately stuck in the drawer, or the debate on what would be the most appropriate type of document bearing the title of the National Programme for Culture is already old. On the other hand, in favour of Sheligo's proposal, the most common observation was that it was incomplete and inaccurate in terms of the strategy and that it was not operational enough. On the basis of Shelig, however, under the leadership of Minister Andreja Richter, a new programme document of Slovenian culture was created, which was adopted by the National Assembly on 25 March 2004. Anyone who tries to trouble the document now forgets the essential thing, namely that it must be realized and that the state and achievements of culture should be reported to the National Assembly every year. We therefore regret in the parliamentary group that neither the chairman of the committee nor the ruling coalition nor the Minister for Culture have taken the opportunity to present reports on the implementation of the national cultural programme at the plenary session of the National Assembly, but are satisfied with the flat-rate conclusion that the reports are good. Many people have critical concerns, but not in the sense that this national programme should be abolished before the deadline for which it is prepared expires. Many have critical views on its contents and composition, but it must be borne in mind that it is a document that has not separated the Slovenians. Moreover, with regard to cultural direction, he has even united us. The problem is not and must not be the programme itself, but its implementation, but only in terms of what the Government or the Ministry of Culture has done or not, what all cultural entities, funds, institutions, etc. have done for its implementation. How it was taken into account by local communities and all other ministries, in particular school, environmental, foreign affairs and public administration. A well-prepared report for the past two years, which would bravely face problems that plague culture, which burden relations between culture, economy, education or between culture and the state, would be, as it were said, a good source of encouragement for debates in the National Assembly. We will therefore support the proposal for the discharge of the Minister for Culture, and all other points of interpretation will be touched further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u17	Mr Aloyz Sok has the floor on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Minister, co-workers, distinguished fellow Members and Members of Parliament! So it took two years for us to get our first interpolation. In Novi Slovenija, we were aware that this would happen earlier, but we did not expect the first interpellation to be filed against the Minister of Culture, but that the other ministers were constantly being criticised. So interesting, but the facts are here. I will try, on behalf of our parliamentary group, to keep the content of the interpretation as simple as possible, although I must say that in the introduction, both by the proponents and also by the Minister, we have listened to two highly crafted, drunk speeches here in the National Assembly. We rarely hear such performances, and that's what needs to be said. So if we go in this interpretation in kind, first of all, as far as the RTV contribution is concerned. It was indeed said that this contribution would be reduced. As it seems now, we have different understandings, those who have proposed it have also understood in this way - and also so it can be explained - that it will not be nominally reduced, but that it will be a real reduction. And if we take inflation into account, then this reduction is real. However, hotels or hotels, we must admit that it did not increase, which was not the standard of previous years when this RTV contribution was increasing. When the economists on RTV calculated how much to add to the register, they increased the rates by so much that the matter worked. Well, it's not like that right now. This raises, as the Minister has said, 55 million less each month and is a question of the extent to which we can insist on this. I think that this will also need to be considered and, at least, at the rate of inflation, this RTV contribution has to be coordinated somehow. Because, on the other hand, it is difficult to expect and demand that the programme be better; these are two things that do not go together. The financial result, as presented here, is good at the moment. And those who talk about this also in this interpretation, in order to have a capable manager appointed to the post of director, we can find out that this person you named, the car salesman, is obviously a car salesman who has shown that a good management approach can financially regulate this house; so either you admit it or you don't. I know and we realize you're not comfortable, but we do object to someone being disqualified in this way in advance. We liked that at the first question of journalists, he said honestly that he did not know the work on RTV and that he did not know what was ahead. This was right on his part, what the media had done about it, and what the opposition was doing about it, was a second question. However, if you do not give someone a chance, you can never prove whether he is capable of doing anything or not. We are pleased that Mr Guzai has been given this opportunity. And the same goes for the President of the RTV Council, Mr Grando. I don't know why Mr Granda would be less suitable than Mr Kocijancič, who has already put his elfs in diapers to become a politician and fit for all eternity and will inherit, in some feudal way, a position for a position. Well, that's unfair, that's not fair. And I think that he has matured in this country, but if not, there will be a time when it will be necessary to realize that this is the case and that it is necessary to give the opportunity to all Slovenes and Slovenians, regardless of their worldview definition. The next thing you're reading is that the program is bad enough that it hasn't improved. This could be some kind of subjective assessment of each of us. I have to say that I can't evaluate it myself because I don't see much of it; except for what I have to do for my job as an MP; I don't have time to deal with sitting in front of a TV, and then I'm going back to something else and I'm going to say something about it. If the opposition really wanted to see it that way, we should have some kind of professional price. You have vowed many times to various civil institutions; it is a pity that you have not supported this argument in this interpretation with such an expertly supported analysis. Just on the basis of your assessment, it's bad because it doesn't tolerate the championship league - I don't know, I know a lot of people who have little interest in this championship league, but nothing, I know a lot of people who don't care about the game between Ecuador and Burkina Faso and so on, but I know a lot of people who are interested in it; it's said that the program on TV has to be running so that it's for everyone. But I know a lot of people who have been happy to see what you see in the interpretation, and this is the dedication of Slovenian bishops, which in the past has not been seen and people have been in some way damaged, cheated, paid TV, and this TV has not allowed them to do so. My mother was so excited to watch this, she's 80 years old, if she's watching anything, then she's been watching it, and she's been paying RTV ever since it started paying off. And I don't know why we wouldn't let these people choose and watch with a button. You wrote that in your interpretation, it's a shame you're still going through this ideological battle. I suggest that we stop this matter once in this country and yet say that we respect each other in the face of diversity and that we allow all people to see it too. Although the Minister did not answer to you because he must have felt below the level, I, as of today, have decided to tell you this from this city and advise you to stop once with such similar allegations because they do not lead anywhere and are not suitable for the third millennium and not for the period when the Slovenians became part of a free Europe. As far as the State Department report is concerned, I understand and in New Slovenia we are convinced that the independence of an institution is demonstrated mainly through the method of financing and that through this principle RTV Slovenia is independent, you cannot deny it because the share given by the State is negligiblely small. Whether they are independent journalists - this is often dependent on them. I told them myself once when we told the former ambassador at the seat of New Slovenia, the American Ambassador Young, at the seat of New Slovenia, about our media and the fact that we feel neglected in New Slovenia, he replied briefly, saying, "I know, I know, FDV." Just as they've been educated throughout all these years, as they've been taught, they're still acting, a man is free and independent as much as he wants to be, but if he doesn't want to be, then he's not. It's easy to serve, it's much harder to be independent and free, and then you have to show your spine and your upright posture. Otherwise, this report is not disturbing, but it is very short, and it is also beneficial. As far as the perception of broadcasts for Roma communities is concerned, I think there are a lot of them at the moment, otherwise by force of the situation, for other reasons. I agree, however, that these matters are prepared in such a way that the Roma communities will prepare these shows themselves, not that others are preparing them for them, because they are not then broadcasts by the Roma community. They have to start designing them themselves. The idea that digitisation is progressing too slowly will simply be answered: as much money as it is music. That's what they say in Prlecia. And if we continue to insist that the RTV contribution needs to be reduced, it will be even worse in this area, or if money needs to be provided in some other way. As far as the readings around the third programme are concerned, here I will return somewhat to the very quality of the programmes, ladies and gentlemen, at this moment it is a matter of transferring transfers from the great hall and from the Tomšič Hall. The other day, I saw what our performance here in Parliament looked like when a law was passed. I wish there weren't any of those transmissions. This is where we used to follow each other and read the same texts. If people are interested in this, I think it has been extremely painful, spiritually, no distortions, but we are like Members, and on the other hand we have such a Rules of Procedure. In this National Assembly, we do not discuss, nor do we listen. Many of you are present today, but when laws are passed, empty walls are spoken here. And that's not a debate. And even those who come and look at us find out right away. We had some American friends here, they said right away, yeah, who you're talking to, because you're not listening. We have such a Rules of Procedure. Are we prepared to amend this Rules of Procedure so that we can discuss each other? The most interesting part is the night before the vote. Anything else, I'm sorry, these transmissions are really some kind of talk, some monotonousness, and we're going to have to think about what we're going to do about it. An attempt at political influence on the media through this pluralisation fund - I do not know that the previous authorities have already tried 3% of the RTV contribution to the local media, and the Constitutional Court has prevented it. Now it's been done with this fund, we'll see how it's going to go with this, there's a lot of applications, there's little funding. In New Slovenia, we fear that these funds will dissolve. In order to influence the media as part of the government's party, New Slovenia can be assured from this space that it does not. I have been alone for two years since I have been the leader of the parliamentary group, sitting there as the president of another government party, such as my former colleague Potrč, I have been invited on my own once to give a reverberation and that when I had to somehow defend Minister Drobnič. Even the manager was surprised that I was invited for the first time. That's the way it is. Now we accept this, but we are New Slovenia Christian Democrats, 'this black', you don't have to deal with us. It is good that we have some foreign newspapers, such as the European Voice, through which we can achieve some recognition in Europe at all. If it's obviously not in Slovenia, but there, they see us there and I'm very proud of what happened to our finance minister yesterday. I also found out at 4:30 p.m. on our television. But it's interesting, I'd say O. K., the media doesn't know that Nova Slovenija exists, but they invited me to the Odessa when I'm supposed to confront Ambassador Bebler about whether the Stepinac was a war criminal or not. But then they remembered New Slovenia and they invited us. But I said, "Dear ladies and gentlemen, I will not talk about this with Mrs Bebler in front of Slovenian television, and I will not even think about it." And then there weren't those echoes that night either. As far as the answer is concerned. This is a matter that we have legalized in the law, and it seems to me that it is actually more used at the moment by those who have strongly opposed it. At least that's how I feel. From our parliamentary group so far, no fellow Member has requested any correction, especially on RTV, for the first time because there are not enough of us there and they cannot make any major mistakes regarding our reporting, and the second, we are pleased with how it is reported. We'll take that as a fact. But I've already experienced that I've seen that my colleagues in LDS have immediately requested a correction if anything was said at the beep or some line is wrong. And you, too, were not the reason for this, but it was to allow for some objective reporting and to include this instrument in this law, otherwise the responsible editors still have a lot of room for manoeuvre. How many revisions they publish, to what extent or to what extent. It's a question of Kobilar Lipica. Mr. Secretary has listed here a very plastic thing that was all wrong there. At least one thing I have to say as a veterinarian to protect my fellow veterinarian, so that we don't worry about sick horses, I can't agree. I don't think so. This is already our veterinary ethics - although we did not make any vows, as doctors do, but already our veterinary ethics does not allow us to leave sick horses unsustained. But again, as much money as there was, there was so much work going on. And since we had some concerns about this marriage in New Slovenia, we will be very happy if all of this about Kobilna Lipica comes true. It is somehow closer to us that horses belong to the Ministry of Agriculture because there are those people there, from veterinarians to breeders and so on, who learn more about this matter than people employed in the Ministry of Culture, but this is how the coalition contract has been defined, and so we have followed that the responsibility for Kobilina Lipica is fully assumed by the Ministry of Culture, that this responsibility is no longer shared between different ministries and that is why this situation will probably improve. However, we are confident in New Slovenia that, of course, because of the golf course, the cobalt itself will not have any great added potential. It will have to be financed as a cobalt by the state because it is a cultural monument and because horses are simply no longer playing the role that they had a few years or 20 years ago; therefore, today the function of horses is completely different, the army is almost no longer using them, they are no longer used for work, they are intended for other purposes, especially sports, and many times to preserve a cultural landscape and to preserve this cultural heritage that our ancestors have left us. The sights of the Bled Castle seem inconvenient to us because it is natural and logical that the government as owner had to take care of the Blej Castle and that in this case it is best that the Bled municipality, which is a touristly interesting municipality, in fact some kind of tourist Mecca and if they want to make room there for museum collections and for the construction of these museum collections, then, of course, only the municipality can do the best, which has committed itself to providing a quality hospitality and tourist offer, which is not at all difficult at Bled. So, it would be hard to do where there are no tourists, let's say that if we went to Ormozh, there's no problem in Bled. As far as non-execution of activity in relation to the broadcasting of the island is concerned. Well, of course, this insight is illogical in interpretation. It is illogical because the cases are taking place in a court, in the Supreme Court, and it is now before the Constitutional Court and I would say something else in this regard. In view of the failure to carry out denationalisation procedures in previous governments, claims for cash refunds have now been made through courts and several hundred million have been reserved in the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests to pay compensation for what has been blocked through judicial decisions. And here, respected LDS colleagues have a great responsibility, especially those who have been in positions if you have interfered with denationalisation procedures with your actions. It will also be necessary to establish a criminal responsibility for whom, why citizens and citizens would pay if someone obstructed a denationalisation procedure and now the court has decided such and such compensation and this compensation will be paid from the funds of the Agricultural Land and Forests Fund. I think that this should be highlighted as the responsibility of those who have caused such things. This is, of course, the legacy of the 10 years and the conscious non-implementation of denationalisation decisions. Now there are the feedback effects of this and, of course, "cassified" by this government and this government coalition. As far as we're concerned, there's some kind of replacement. There were not many because you did not mention many of them in the interpretation, but it is obvious that you are of the opinion that the Minister as responsible must not replace anyone in this country. For example, the Minister may be replaced in the case of Mr Drobnic's day after tomorrow, and all of you are applauding, but no one else should be replaced, but by the standards of the superior does not work effectively enough. This seems to us in Novi Slovenija a kind of duality. I think the Minister is responsible, and if someone has failed to execute and has estimated that he does not run an institution in the right way, then according to the law he can do so, and so he has done so, and this observation seems completely inappropriate to us. About the autonomy of the Film Fund. Given that the draft Law on the Institute for Audiovisual Content of the Republic of Slovenia has been prepared and that the film will obtain greater powers in accordance with this Act, it seems to us that this solution is good and that you are slightly ahead of schedule with this accusation of interpretation. The failure to implement the national programme for culture, we are back in the money, for the ongoing projects, I realize that there would be a need for new funding, for each municipality to find one, but it is only as much as it was and in 2006 it was earmarked for investments at the Ministry of Culture 14.6 million euros; in 2007 this amount increases by almost 30%, to 18.2 million euros. I don't know what assumption you can then still see that this investment programme is not being implemented. I'll tell you again what I've said many times, but we can cover ourselves with as long a blanket as it is. If it's too short, then you need to sleep a little bit short. But if it's long, then we can get more comfortable, and that's the way it is. There will be more money for culture, of course, than budget funds. It is true, however, when we considered the budget, that you asked your opposition colleagues more for this, more for that, more for the third time, but you took the Slovenian army where you promised yourself that we would devote a percentage, 2% of the gross social product, and you accepted these commitments yourself when we stepped into NATO; you were taking in the road programme to build Slovenian highways, which we should have built 30 years ago, and we still don't have them and so on. So again, some double criteria that you probably only understand on your own. At this point, you also note that the Minister cares almost nothing about Slovenian language as a first priority and that nothing strives to connect in the common Slovenian cultural space. Very interesting! Let me remind you that from New Slovenia, as regards the connection of the Slovenian cultural space, and also more broadly, we have sent you a proposal to amend the Constitution, if we were all to have representatives of the Slovenian people around the world and instead to have a seat in this Slovenian Chamber of Democracy, and in this way this cultural space to be connected to a significant extent; that we are not talking about the economic effects of such a decision at all. Well, you have a chance to approach that. To date, no parliamentary group has replied to us, nor does it agree with this proposal. Now I'd like you to write this down for us in the future. Well, and then there are indications that, according to Nova Slovenije's assessment, this interpretation should be rectified in order to be more credible. You're saying the minister stood up for a single tax rate. So, this single tax rate has been talked about all year. The laws are now passed, there is no uniform tax rate, and you still see in the interpretation that the Minister has taken the stand for this. I don't know, I didn't hear him speak for it, but all I know is that there's been a lot of writing about it and all the attention to this tax reform has been focused on just one question, that's to a single tax rate. Otherwise, a number of laws have been corrected in this tax package. Allow me to introduce them. The Heritage Tax Act and the Gifts Tax Act, where tax exemptions were granted to tax facilities declared cultural monuments; then the Property Sales Tax Act, where the exemption for the sale of the tax also extended to objects declared cultural monuments; then the Added Value Tax Act, where, under the special arrangement for small taxpayers, a VAT exemption of up to 6 million Slovenian Tolars is prescribed; then, for the income tax of residents and non-residents with a source in Slovenia, the new bill reduces from 25 % to 15%, and this also applies to the services of those taking place. It is said that these are proposals for new legislation, where there are far more favourable conditions than those in force. Then it's the Income Act. According to the new ones, those who carry out activities, including self-employed people in culture, will be able to account for 25% of the standard costs, up to 10 million [[Previously there was 6 million, so it's an enormous increase.]] . As well as an instrument in the proposal for a law that 0.5% of the income can be earmarked for generally beneficial purposes, and between these generally beneficial purposes the area of culture is also mentioned. So these are all the solutions that went in a positive direction and that should also make us commend the Minister of Culture in this space for taking this step, but not for just listening to some kind of criticism. Finally, the evidence of irregularities in the implementation of the 2005 financial plan of the Ministry of Culture is not alarming, but if these reports were to be used for the interpretation of ministries, ministers, then they should interpret something in order, and in particular they should remove as many as three quarters of Slovenian mayors due to negative reports. That would be very bad. We are aware that it is necessary to look at all that these irregularities are being remedied and that reports from the Court of Auditors will serve to correct these errors in the future. And to finish, a little joke, a little for real. Since Mr Grims has somehow admitted here that one half of this interpretation was somehow filed against him, there is no reason for Nova Slovenija to vote in favour of the interpretation of Minister Dr Simoniti. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u19	Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-worker! In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we thoroughly examined the Minister of Culture's responses to the allegations cited by the opposition in the proposal for interpretation, where she also proposed to the National Assembly a decision on the discharge of the Minister. We believe that in his reply, the Minister has duly rejected and explained the findings mentioned in the interpretation, so we will not support the proposal for a solution. The opposition Members, the interpellation proponents, justify a proposal for a resolution with some abstract claims, some very concrete and some which, in our opinion, even speak in our own way in contrast to the readings. Above all, we think of those who refer to public media and RTV legislation, and they already state that the Minister does not do what he cannot, and is left under law to the public office and independent media management. In particular, we have examined the Minister's responses to the allegations of illegal activity and the failure to comply with the adopted documents binding on the Minister and his department. Let me just say some. Most of the readings refer to the Law on RTV and the Law on Media. There's probably no one among us who wouldn't agree that the media has tremendous power and influence. Their social, social, even educational role is increasingly important. As a result, of course, there is also a whole type of danger and the possibility that the media - or even better, certain stakeholders - would even abuse this media power and influence. Therefore, the plurality of media is of paramount importance. That is why we supported the Media Act in the Slovenian People's Party, which follows the goals such as media plurality, the protection of Slovenian language and the protection of children and minors. We therefore believe that the quality of the programmes and the functioning of the public institution are the responsibility of the institutions themselves, who must follow the legal provisions. 39. Article 39 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as one of human rights and fundamental freedoms guarantees freedom of expression and Article 14 of the right to correction and reply. In our view, local and regional radio and television programmes are of particular importance in the exercise of freedom of expression and the right to information. Therefore, in the SLS Group, we have already tried to resolve the issue of 3% of the RTV contributions lost by programmes of particular importance on the basis of a Constitutional Court decision. We have therefore sought to make such a provision in the Media Law. Media plurality in itself forces the media to report more objectively and thus makes it possible for residents to generate their own opinion on events. However, it is certainly not appropriate to state that the Minister is guilty if the viewing of one or the other programme is smaller or larger, but it is necessary for the State to take care of the Public Institute of RTV, which must provide quality education, education, cultural and other programmes in its programme, which may be less commercially interesting and necessary for the education and education of young people. Such programs share the same fate as the Slovenian book on our small market. With regard to the findings on the amendment of the Kobilirana Lipica Act, we believe that maintaining horse breeding and cobial breeding as a cultural heritage is certainly one of the priorities in this area. In Slovenia we have paid little attention in the past to preserving cultural heritage; now the new minister and government must seek ways and means to meet all the needs. It is therefore necessary to find solutions so that the cobials can continue their basic activity and we agree with the Minister's statement that the state is not able to cover the deficits of the tourist-guest activities of Kobilarna Lipica from the budget, but to provide it with its own resources. It also seems important to us that the law has decreed that all properties remain state-owned. In short, the arrangement allows Lipica to stay in one piece, which is most important to us and will not be privatized. Eyewitnesses of an illegal and harmful contract for the management of a Blaze castle. The government declared the Bled Castle a public infrastructure in the field of culture by decision of 12.12.2001. By signing a contract with a public institution set up by the Municipality of Bled on 11 November 2004, the Bled Institute of Culture, the Ministry did not violate a special law on culture, since such an act in the original competence of the Minister and the contract signed on 19 June this year fully protects the public interest. As far as the evidence of harmful personneling is concerned. It is clear from the case of substitutions, as the interpolation writers suggest, that there was a change, for example, in the Republic of Slovenia Archives, in fact to replace only one person in accordance with the then applicable law on public servants. It is also evident from the Minister's replies to other similar allegations that the staff have been replaced in accordance with the legislation governing it, or by the decision of the authorities of public institutions in which the Minister does not operate and must not influence. It's over. Both the interpretation and the debate on the work of the Minister for Culture is and will prove to be in some sense positive in the opinion of the SLS Group of Members. Positively, we will take more time in the National Assembly to discuss culture and to discuss the protection and use of Slovenian language, which, in our opinion, is not enough to talk about in this house and in the Slovenian public. We must all be aware that the Slovenian people throughout the turbulent history maintained the culture and the struggle for our native language. We are therefore pleased to see in the SLS that this interpretation may also lead to a national programme for language policy. We also hope that today's debate and the Minister's response in our society will strengthen the awareness that we need to keep the Slovenian language and Slovenian book at home and in place. So I take it that we will not support the conclusions on the discharge of the Minister, but we were pleased to see more talk in this debate about culture, cultural heritage and Slovenian language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u22	Your Honors are here! All the speakers before me, at least according to my assessment, have put at risk the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, which was pointed out by counterpart Branko Grims. My colleague Branko Grims admitted today that he runs the ministry and, of course, that's not right. We came so far that not only did he prescribe the authorship of the law, but he attributed himself to the result of this authorship and content. In my opinion, in the situation where Comrade Grimes allows it, whether it is true or not, the minister, the minister we are interpreting today, the minister to whom he is on the verge of being trusted or not by the National Assembly as a beloved authority, should exercise his right. I believe that you are not one of the 90 Members or Members of Parliament to allow him to lead the ministry. I believe that this is some kind of individual victory, however, my colleague Grims thinks that this is very bad for democracy, but on the other hand, I think it reflects some personal greed, which not only goes beyond all the limits of good taste, but is of course very harmful, very harmful for the autonomy of the executive branch as well as for the autonomy of the legislative branch of power. Also, some nebulos have been exposed to the debate so far, at least in my opinion. Some nebulos that should affect the decisions of individual Members and Members in the context of their decision, or that of Mr Simoniti still trust this more than an important resource further or say to him: No, you have given your functions enough to individual Members, you have been under the influence of individual media or you have been under the influence of a political party and in this way the media and all that is connected in his work, leave to another person, a better person. One of these nebulos is that the definition of interpolation is an ideological struggle. Ladies and gentlemen, you who take the view that this is an ideological fight, and this has actually come from a strong government representative, are quite mistaken here. Regardless of the fact that Members and Members of the Slovenian National Party have not been invited to write, co-authorate or substantively supplement the interpretation, we can say with certainty that the origin of such terminology or content, that this ideological struggle of our country will not lead forward, will not lead to the time needed to develop the least democracy in the field of work covered by the Minister before us. And the third nebulosis, which I sincerely hope was expressed in the current lack of a healthy spirit, this justifies why the RTV contribution did not go down. Despite the fact that we all know that during the period when there was much talk about the law, the government has clearly said that the RTV contribution will be reduced. On all of this, the Minister built his so-called referendum election campaign, and today we hear that the RTV contribution has not been reduced, but in excusing this, it has not even increased. And these approaches are, according to our assessment, those approaches that fully take credibility for the said minister or for the previously mentioned Member, who vowed to praise the said Ministry. As for the interpolation which is before us today with certainty we cannot claim that all 11 points, as far as the interpolation in its contents is concerned, are well prepared, but with the same certainty we can say that some of them hold, hold, hold, and from this title the Minister no longer deserves to lead such an important resort within our country, the Republic of Slovenia, as he has led it. The speech was, at least in point 1 or, I apologize, a speech is that there is a gap between the promised and the actual situation after the adoption of the Radio Television Act Slovenia. During that period, let us say, we naively believed in the quality of the written law, but there is no such quality after applying it. And from this address, allow me to point out two. First, the attitude towards regional studies of Radiotelevision of Slovenia, in particular Television Slovenia. We all know that they are aspirations, but unfortunately they must not talk about this, both within the framework of Radiotelevision and within the framework of both regional studies, the tendency to reduce their autonomy by seeking to reduce their impact, their production programme and thus the coverage and decentralisation of information. And when I speak of information, indeed, each one of us kind of wants to, I sincerely hope that this desire is as far away from the reality as possible to control information. We've had no more cases of information management in history. While these were good facts for a short period of time, it has always proved harmful to manage information for the development of society as a whole, not some political party. And the tendency of this government is certainly more powerful information management than ever before in the history of the independence of our country, the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me to touch the so-called part of the 3rd point in this place, that is, a broadcast for the Roma community in Slovenia. According to our assessment, the proponents of this interpretation are "fucking" wrong about this matter. In the Slovenian programme we have quite a few shows adapted to the least minorities or - of course, please take in a positive sense - different. On the other hand, this content is trying to integrate into all the daily information shows, into all the entertainment shows that we witnessed last night. And the fact is that it does not want to, must not, or is politically harmful, but I do not know for whom the problem, the imaginary issue of the work of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, is being raised in their favour, let us say, now a Roma issue. And if I come out of, in my opinion, yesterday's exceptionally illustrative case of some entertainment show, according to the author of the entertainment-information show, it was more than obvious that she was trying a certain part of Radiotelevision Slovenia or Television Slovenia, I apologize, in this way to tame the truth. And if we find that a guest can bring more than 30 guests with him, and another guest who advocates the ceremony, 3 or 4 guests, we see that there is no balance in this area. But why is there no balance? This is because it is obviously not in the interest of someone to provide customers with balanced information, because of course it is a matter of dealing with information. I would like to know how much will be said today in the evenings or in the afternoon news shows about helicopter transport of police special forces to Kočevje or, better said, how much will it be tonight about transporting and stationing members of the Slovenian Army in the forests near the Cat's Villa. Will they report that they have been standing there all day because information has come to the public to bring the notorious family to that location? Probably not. However, if it does, it will be shown again how impatient the natives and the foreign women are, of course, those who are subject to both rights and obligations in our country, and those who demand exclusive rights do not recognise obligations. But, of course, that's another story, you'll say. But according to our assessment, it's the same story. It is solely about displaying the objectivity of information. And the fact is, the objectivity of information in our country is not. That's what the minister or the paraminist helped do. I would also like to highlight the objectivity of the media, i.e. the common denominator, the Media Act, which was adopted not least in the National Assembly. And since all the speakers before me took advantage of the interpretation speech mainly about your exposure to your pain because you are not in the daily newspaper, in the daily media everywhere, let me also be allowed to do so as a representative of the Slovenian National Party. Today I have two articles of two printed media, Evening and Work, both newspapers, which are more or less state-owned, perhaps through banks, perhaps via Sod, Kad, but doubtless both newspapers in which government policy has the right, and unfortunately asserts this right to create content and thereby create a message to the public. I guess there's no need to speak the ownership structure of both daily newspapers, that is, Del and Dinner. As an interesting feature, allow me to expose only the evening, on 24 November, this was Friday, in the title: Janša cancels Minister Drobnic. None of you, who wishes to maintain some credibility, will be able to deny my words that, after the gentleman's interpretation, I apologize, the biggest step has been taken by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group to suspend Mr Drobnic. Unlike the candidates for the existing interpretation, we have invited each Member and Member of the National Assembly to participate. We have invited the professional and interested public, because we have pursued a different objective, a substantive objective, not only to allow interpolation to be merely a political weapon, but as the authors who are writing explain the matter, in my opinion, unwittingly, even more are signed under the article. It exposes every Member group, including those who have not touched on a two-year term of office, which no representative currently sits with us, the problems of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, point out their point of view, point out the aspect of every political party. The text, however, is concluded in battle in the poor context of the link between the authorship of readings over interpretation and, of course, with the relationship of one parliamentary group, that is, the Slovenian National Party. How can people in a given situation get actual objective information within the government if they are subject, i.e. creators or public opinion broadcasters, exclusively in the ownership structure, but we know that it is in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. But of course, this thing isn't the only one. I will also touch on the work of such a once infamous central newspaper within our country. I think that on the same day, I apologize, even a day later, this is 25 November, Saturday, on the other hand, under the title Events of the Day, the entire chronology of so-called Tiny Cooperation or non-cooperation with social partners, with the Government, with Parliament, in short with persons from A to Z in our country. It has been pointed out that there was no such cooperation. It is interesting, however, that in the context of the so-called contribution The responses proposed by the Minister's discharge are listed again by all parliamentary parties. Some among parliamentary parties or parliamentary groups, I am talking about the same interpretation, Mr Drobnič, the authorship of this interpellation, but not without giving up, but what is too much, but it is just too much, the national party's parliamentary group. But when journalists, and there are more of them here, take stock of the response to the proposal by the Minister of Resolve, we have President DeSUS Karl Erjavac with a photograph, we have the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Podobnik, we have the President of the Liberal Democracy Jelko Kacin, we have our fellow Member Tank and, last but not least, the leader of Mr Potrč's Group of Social Democrats. We don't have another one. And this non-objectivity of reporting, this is a threat to perception and acceptance of information. I believe that it cannot be in the interest and satisfaction of any person here in the National Assembly, not least in the framework of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, unobjective reporting. Of course, all of us should strive to have different opinions, not to point out a single opinion alone, but to the ruling majority by attaching the Minister to the interpretation today. But the fact is, it happens from day to day. But I only allowed these three, four minutes because you allowed yourself in front of me to determine your content of the lack of daily politics, in the newspaper and on television. From this place I should be allowed to define myself until the operation of Radiotelevision of Slovenia, in conjunction with the law on RTV. I will start with the parliamentary group I belong to, that is, the Slovenian National Party. Not that it has been a week, a month, I am talking about the years when we were last invited to the Turnout, where different opinions of political parties, members or Members of Parliament, Members of the Slovenian National Party, are faced. Even once I got the impression that even if we were talking about the Slovenian National Party Act, the responsible editor who regulates the Echoes would only invite this confrontation to the case, colleague Tank and his colleague Runc to talk about the Slovenian National Party Act. But this is happening within the framework, and I will deliberately say, our RTV, that is, TV Slovenia. I do not know whether people are so uneducated within this institution that they do not know the structure of Parliament, whether they are so highly uneducated or political that they do not look at the content or proposals of each law when they invite guest speakers, those who create information or send messages to customers, i.e. to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course there can be more answers, but we all know what's behind it. Every government has a desire to influence information, but this time the government is exaggerating in the realization of this desire. It exaggerates to the detriment of the development of democracy and is excessively harmful to the objectivity of information. And allow me to point out from this point of view the matter that is equally important to me. And I'm going to go back to the problem that's been very topical these past few days. No number of newspaper articles included Strojan’s last name, Romani issues, gypsy issues, whatever. No more letters were received by Members, I believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also, and last but not least the media. But only one media in the Republic of Slovenia, which does not even recognize itself as a serious newspaper, this is the Directive, has highlighted a letter from the bitter countrymen with a view to their truth. And I believe that their truth is closer to reality than the truth of Comrade Shirce or anyone else. But this is the only newspaper he was hoping to raise the second issue of gypsy issues on the matter. And this newspaper admits to itself that it's some sort of boulevard newspaper, whatever. But from the daily newspaper, which attributed to itself the weight of a serious newspaper, a quality, objective newspaper, etc., none of these media had the hope of exposing the difference that would be in a positive light for Slovenes and Slovenes. And if we take my words into account, if we take the words of the critics of the other representatives of the sent groups into account, then we can certainly say that something is wrong today. Something's wrong with the objectivity of the media. And if anyone is responsible for the lack of objectivity, he's the minister behind me. From this address, from all the addresses I have highlighted in the introduction, we will, in the National Party, the Member of Parliament and Members, support the interpretation. We aim to ensure that our citizens and citizens receive information that they will not only be aware of the reality but will also be open to them about things that they cannot directly be present on. We will not allow, at least to the extent that it is in our power to do so, to take place through the fund that will be discussed later by colleague Žgajner, to address the question of Lipice, which will be discussed by colleague Srečko Friends, not least the attitude of the Minister of Culture towards denationalisation and avoidance of responsibility and transfer of content, as will be discussed by colleague Boštjan Zagorac. So there are more elements to the withdrawal. Although we would like to see the President of the government overcome so much courage or anything else and call him back or at least call him back. But the fact is, from the abuse of information, all of us in history have learned a lot, and we have learned that such abuses are called agit-profession, to be called Goebbels's cases, whoever they are, they always end negatively. According to our assessment, according to the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, certain other things are also exposed, such as a single tax rate. One of the speakers in front of me said, yes, the interpretation defines the chapter of fiscal policy and how the future fiscal policy will be friendly, i.e. tax policy friendly to artists in the field of the Ministry. And this speaker said that these uniform tax rates or changes in fiscal policy did not occur, so this must not be the subject of interpolation. According to our estimate, yes, it has to be. It's a matter of the minister's credibility. And according to our assessment, the minister who today at the trial, the interpretation, however you want, at least as far as we're concerned, lost credibility, lost the credibility that would keep him in this position, so one of the people, I regret to say, is one of the people, because the other is in the bench, Comrade Grims, who leads, directs the policy of the Ministry. As it is said, the other fellow Members will present the interpretation at individual points on behalf of the Group of Members, and I predict that we will support the interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the interpretation. Mr Grims, there is no replica to the presentation of the parliamentary groups. You will have a chance in the debate. Mr. Gaber has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I have a record in front of me that says very eloquent things about the Minister, and nothing is encouraging. I have before me a debate on the point of the decree on amendments and amendments to the decree on the 2006 budget of the Municipality of Maribor. In it, the councillor of this town hall at the meeting 11.9.2006 Mr. Marjan Gačko asked where the investment in the puppet theatre Maribor was lost. Answers, and this is what is particularly interesting to him, Dr. Alojz Križman, former rector of the University of Maribor, Mayor of Maribor and Head of the Committee, who is supposed to make this puppet theatre live in suitable rooms. What it says is what is particularly interesting to me, Mr Minister, and I fear that it must be very interesting for many in this country. He says so, on the question of why this investment has not been realized, I quote: "The Minister has made it clear to me, Mr Sovic, that we will not give money for the puppet theatre as long as Mr Sovič is." And then he talks about a lot of stuff, a lot of bad guys and stuff. He says: "I am extremely critical because this is the intention of this government, especially the SDS, not so much against Maribor, but against Mayor Sovic. And I have to say this frankly today, and I'm also going to make it public, things like that to say, and that's what we're going to do for our future mayor. It's a scandal." That was an indication. The statement you have already been alerted to, Mr Minister, and in your question on 25.9.2006, my fellow Member, Mr Petek, asked you what has become more or less common in Slovenia. You replied then, and again I quote: "Now that I have a little answer to what he said before, which I do not even have to answer, but I will, because the accusations and the words were so grossly inappropriate. You said that you were supposed to deceive or even lie, it was a matter of political culture, that we would not give Sovic because he was from another option, and that it was a scandal and that I could not understand noble things and that I didn't care about the children in Maribor. This, of course, is inappropriate speech and let Mr. Crossman prove it if he can." This was also a literal indication of what you were saying here in this National Assembly. You continued with a topic that is not directly related to this issue. But I ask you myself, and I expect you to answer the citizens and citizens of this country, not how you decided and when everything was in the programme of building this puppet theater, but one question: Was Dr. Križman lying when he spoke about you and talking to you? If you're saying he lied, then of course he did it several times. About the same topic, he also wrote of all respectable weekly in Slovenia, where also Dr. Križman said: "I have pointed out that this year's local elections should not be an obstacle to the agreement and the beginning of the construction of the puppet theatre Maribor. I also mentioned that if construction did not begin, it would certainly be one of the very exciting pre-election games. I received an answer to wait for possible political changes in Maribor with the beginning of the construction. It is a sad fact that such an investment, which is intended for children and the culture of the city, also manifests such or other political interests." [[End of story.]] So I ask you, Mr. Minister, is the respected professor, the former mayor of Maribor and also the saint lying. If you answer me that he has lied, I believe that Mr Križman will be able to find the answer to this claim, and of course we will then discuss this issue further. But if he didn't lie, and I'll believe it myself, until you prove otherwise, then I'm actually asking you: in what relation is this your conduct with the oath you made before this National Assembly on 3 December 2004. For here, I quote, you said, "I swear that I will respect constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia." Not for the welfare of its own candidate in the municipality of Maribor, not for the welfare of the SDS, not for the well-being of the coalition, but for the well-being of Slovenia. That's what I'm asking you. At the same time, I ask the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, Dear Kos: "Do we have, in your case, if Mr Križman's claims are correct, to deal with a case of political corruption?" I expect to get an answer to that question. I think that, if the allegations are correct, we are dealing with this very crime and the case of the corruption of the senior official of this country, the Minister of Culture. Ambassadors and MEPs of Maribor, the Maribor constituency, who have proved on several occasions that they can go through the political affiliation of ministers when it comes to Maribor, ask what they think about such bullying of the Maribor municipality, the people who live there, by someone who has decided not to indicate that they cannot be given because there is no real political option in power. I also ask the President of the Government, who has recently made a great reference to the ethical code and talked about how ministers must be, how they feel about your actions, what his view of your conduct is, if they follow the words I mentioned at the outset. So how does he feel about conduct that is not in line with the laws that are contrary to the oath given to this House and is ultimately in line with the ethical code. Let me finish, Mr. Secretary. Do you not think that in the event that Dr. Krizman is telling the truth, it would be the wisest thing to give up on your own and save us time for this debate? If the claim is true, then it is unprecedented in the history of this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u25	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! Let me begin in your cynical and mocking tone, in the sense that the interpretation is, quote: "full of instigation, confusional accusations, diversion, propaganda bubble, created by the malicious mood of writers and so on." I will gladly support the interpellation, in particular, Mr Minister, because of your contribution to the release of Slovenia, and also because of everything that this Government has done for balanced journalism, with Mr Janša and you as a political commissioner or Minister of Right and Government, with particular emphasis on a better public television programme. Today we learned that the law of which there is much talk, the Law on RTV, is not your product, but from the beginning to the end the product of colleagues Grims, that you were only involved in bringing him through. And even today, during the session, we can observe how Minister Grims is constantly explaining something to you, and you obviously need someone to teach you all the time. And I must also say that in addition to what my colleague Gaber said was a lie, it was a lie and for months, I think that at least two months, with my fellow Member Grimes, the universal Slovenia convinced that this law is your work, the work of your ministry, today we have heard that Mr Grims's entire product is. I think you've proven to know how to lie when necessary, and we can tell you such statements today. You also said on TV, "It's a product of the Ministry, not one of the individuals" who boasted about it here today. Allow me to remind you of something else, this leaflet, which lists ten reasons why voters and voters should support the referendum. My argument is, you said it wasn't about whether it was a just or unjust outcome of the referendum, I agree, the referendum was what it was, but if it was achieved by manipulation, then unfortunately some blame was borne by you. And there are ten reasons, and I'm going to list them. Why vote for the new RTV Act? Because it will be a more varied and quality television programme, because journalists will be given the right to more free reporting, because there will be more culture, good entertainment and quality information, because it will achieve the same criteria for everything and for balanced and professional reporting, because it will be about starting to separate information from a comment. I'm not talking about the subscription. I'm talking about these reasons that are strong here. You also said more than once, and stressed before the adoption of the law, that so far national television could not get rid of politics because the old law did not allow it. Obviously from all of this after a year, after the referendum there was not much fighting left, but allow me because you said that we had no material and factual evidence that I would list them for you. More of a quality program. Of course, everyone has their own eyes and their own painter, but I think the public will just agree that it's very difficult after a year to say that the program is significantly better, but we can say that it is worse and substantially reduced. I, Mr. Minister, despite your mockery at my question, will still readjust you again with the Champions League. I am a sports fan and of course money is running out, because this was the reason that the Champions League is not on national television, despite, you say, good financial business, but the Champions League has moved on a small commercial television that does not cover the entire Slovenian space. And if you don't know, I'll tell you, football is the most popular sport of Slovenian children and youth. And what can they look at now? Croatian TV, with Croatian comments. If this is the contribution of the cultural minister to the development of Slovenian sport, I thank you on behalf of these football fans. Of course, I also hear that the Sports scene will be closed, and there is also no more weekly review of the football matches of the first Slovenian league, but we have much, and we are very grateful to you that after 20 or even 30 years we can watch Kosnikov's home again, so that you can be a member of the world of RTV, Mr Mit Trefalt, a faithful servant, you can pay back the author's fees. Facings are rare, ministers perform in Odessa alone, and so do they. I think some of these calls or interventions have come to the public. Last time the reporter made a public statement that Minister Drobnič had not agreed to the trial, she received the reproof of journalist Odmevov. Now I hear she's becoming a field correspondent under the new scheme, I think from Gorenjska. The comment you're talking about here that people will slowly know what information is and what the comment is. In fact, the comment is gone, the comment withdraws from the TV, and you cancel it. In fact, journalists do not hope to prepare comments unless the current authorities like them. Radios such as Under the Headlight have been cancelled, Target has been removed from the second program, and Omisje has been removed in late night hours, when, in fact, normal people no longer see it. Of course, the target will be on the show only once a month and there remains only one sense of echo. Mr President, I am very disturbed, and I would ask if the opposition would ever be allowed to have a normal discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u27	The point is, it's weird, keep going.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u28	Yes, you do not warn Members of your kind to disturb other Members. Thank you so much for not making this possible. Come in. Even the freedom of the press. Today, you will probably hear the case of journalist Vida Petrovčič more than once. This is freedom of journalists in Slovenia, here is an article. Apparently, the press freedom from your flyer blew up a reporter. Not to say that it is just a ruckus, I will read what this journalist says, which I think she has received most of Viktor's among all journalists of the daily-information programme in recent years, and which you have appreciated very much as long as she has been critical to the former authorities, of course you are now out of it because she has maintained her critical integrity to the current authority. And the question is, "What is the ideal that you're always fighting for?" - the journalist says: "I fight for freedom of speech, because among other things, it means the absence of fear. In this respect, I would criticise the current government. To be honest, I've always chosen the right political option because it was against what we had in power, and also because I thought it would bring freed Slovenia, because it was promised, right? Or maybe I heard it wrong. But what I now experience as a journalist is something else, fear in people. People are afraid for jobs, no one dares to talk a lot, no coffee. As long as I've been a journalist, I've never seen anything like it." End of her answer. Of course, you said, no material evidence, no facts. I will not speak from my position, the opposition MPs, but I will now allow and read only opinions, criticisms of intellectuals, journalists and some important Slovenian intellectuals, what they believe about the current media situation. He'll be the first reporter to retire, Janko Lorenci. A journalist who retired because in the summer he criticised Slovenian politics about not defending the interests of the minority in Austria. And the editor didn't want to publish it. Of course, then Mr. Lorenzo went to his own retirement. He says: "Of course, this punishment also had a rational core, it was the intimidation of other journalists. [[Apparently on his case.]] However, first, despite all the constitutional and other guarantees of freedom of opinion, it is censored, then punished. That's why I retired early. I'm not complaining. I'm more of a free man." This is clearly an example of a free Slovenian journalist in retirement. "Many Slovenian journalists are worse off than I am, but they have nowhere to go." Next: "Talking about unwanted balance, about desired balance is bluff. There's not enough balance. The goal of subordination to power is as critical and as friendly as possible, says the biased media. However, several methods lead to this goal. The first, in the opinion of Lorenzo, is that, if the media cannot be subordinated, it should possibly be destroyed, for example, by withdrawing ads without which it is not possible to survive. Companies in free media are afraid to advertise even if the economic benefits dictate it. And conclusion: During this stuttering of Slovenian journalism, ugly, excruciating and harmful things happen to the media at the same time. Another example: A journalist who criticized the minister in her contribution because instead of answering the question, she barked at some sort of correction, although capable and popular, she disappeared from the screens because she did what her uptrodden, cowardly bosses should have done. Otherwise, they were set up as cleaners. These are obviously the new editors. Next, what does it say about the media scene Dusan Jovanović: "We have adapted to most of these fears or stored them in a subconscious. With the new Slovenian government, new fears took place. The ruling coalition demands the compatibility of personnel and places its people in all key positions. Many exchanges in Slovenian media outlets indicate that the authorities are working to achieve absolute control over key media. The test is the independence of the media and freedom of expression. Every day we listen to stories about attempts to intimidate and discipline journalists." Miran Lesjak, responsible editor of the Journal, says that he has daily calls from journalists looking for a job, saying: "As a responsible editor of the Journal, since the process of balancing the media has started, this has become an unpleasant work. The responsible editor is the one who is in charge of his editorial work, so more and more unbalanced journalists from other Slovenian editors are addressing me with a simple question: do you need me? We know that this is because the Diary and its publisher have become a highly respected service because of our efforts. But we also know that these human resources talks are the result of what is happening in other offices." And what's going on is, "The journalists are redecorating their texts, writing what they didn't write, cutting their minds, manipulating their signatures, or simply putting them in a ficus position, all because they want to work professionally and don't think like rulers." I have provided you with facts, material evidence of Slovenian journalists and do not anger the opposition. The pressure on the media - the pressure exerted through the advertising story, through where parastate advertisers like Telekom, Mobil, Petrol, Insurance Company Triglav, NKBM, Mercator and so on - has already been mentioned. And if you'll excuse me, I'll also materialize this with concrete evidence, and what your former minister, who is obviously in that momentary period, understands how this new power works. This is Mr Jožet Damian and an article published by him in Finance in which he thinks about an absolutist at the head of the government. That is the title of this work. He says: In principle, the President of the Government can influence the reporting of almost every media in Slovenia if it is not in foreign ownership and if foreign media owners are not concerned with only short-term profits, as the President of the Government can also influence the advertising restrictions of state-controlled companies in the individual media. The transmission of RTV public media and some critical national media through ownership and editorial exchanges has led to the possibility of conducting only unilateral reporting. These are patterns of thinking and action similar to those of socialism. What must we learn from this? Mr. Damian has obviously learned a lot, and he has abandoned this government. And here goes Mr Damian: The President of the current government of Janša has also been extremely fortunate that in recent years public RTV has also been much more public and has allowed quite broad coverage, otherwise it would not have been able to advertise itself as an alternative leader. And if today is a lively effort to reduce this media plurality, it means that not only do current authorities not understand the link between the market economy, economic freedom and political freedom, but they do not realize that their power is not guaranteed forever in the democratic political system. And when they lose that political power, they'll lose their ability to be in the media. The current authorities have had the opportunity to withdraw from active media control and actually relax it and do the opposite. They do not realize that full control of the media does not provide them with a re-election. It is obvious that Mr Damian has, in a few months of staying in your Government, very well identified the levers of pressure on the media, which you are talking about today, that they are ridiculous, fictional, inhospitable, perverted and so on. Apparently, all these people I've listed now have some kind of deficiency, so they were informed. And the right to correction. There's been a lot of talk about that today. This is a matter that you have promoted, defended, and today I understand why. Corrections are mostly published only and exclusively when these corrections are produced by the Government, when it comes to government defamations, then editors become afraid, find space and city, while others experience everything else. Mr. Minister, I'm going to give you three requests for correction. Two are intended for the editorship of Del and one for the editor of the Slovenian News. These corrections have been sent by the congregation of Domžale in the last three months, none of which has been published, and none of them has earned the editor’s attention enough to call and tell why he does not intend to publish these corrections, or whether our interpretation of the correction is wrong. Of course, the correction was published in the newspaper Dnevnik, the same because the article was related and published in both newspapers, and on the other hand a small article, as you can see, about the Domžale students who were working on the street, was then published more than four times the length of the Ministry of Education, and our response to the serious accusations concerning the Domžale Congregation was never published. We will also hand this over to the court and request proper judicial protection, and you who claim, along with your colleague Grims, who reportedly experienced this in the past years, can see how this is happening now after the amendments to the Media Act, for which you bear all responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr Ljublješek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear assembly, distinguished Minister and Madam Secretary of State! Interpellation submitted by the Group of Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy Club against the Minister of Culture proposes that Dr Vask Simoniti be dismissed. I myself have carefully read and concluded that the indications are very general, without supporting evidence, analysis or documents to confirm the records. I seriously doubt the reality of what's written down, a lot of what's written down, but I just don't believe it. Given that the interpretation is very general and deals with different topics, I can't help but give my opinion in general. In recent times, heavy words such as: the Minister is lying or, after a year, facing the grave and Commissionerial takeover of RTV Slovenia have fallen in public, but in rejecting claims from interpretation, I simply cannot avoid about such a dictionary, even though I do not like to use it in my life. I submit that the valuable judgment on Mr Simoniti is that it is obsessive, biased, that it will harm Slovenian culture in the long term and so on, written with great ease, reckless, irresponsible and malicious. The Minister is, so to speak, and behind this I stand, shown with qualities that he does not have and you have not proved them in interpretation. Therefore, such claims as these are simply an insult. It is fair to tell the truth, as it is, not beautiful or ugly, but the truth, which cannot be unconvincing, unreality, superficiality, and simplicity. Interpellation states that "the Law on RTV Slovenia, which he has blamed," reads, "Dr. Simoniti, shut down public television in Slovenia and legislated national or government television." It continues that "this is part of a broader concept of the functioning of the current authority, the essence of which is to subject public administration, the economy, the prosecutions, the judiciary, the anti-corruption authorities and the media." Since you have been colleagues of the Liberal Democracy for more than ten years in power, your influence on the political subordination of everything mentioned above has undoubtedly been exploited to perfection, as the concept of the functioning of your authority, subjugating everything was your own practice. And in any way we would like to prove that you are the only one able to run this country, but in two years it has been shown that many of your staff are still quite replaceable, and even more so that some new personnel are also better than their predecessors. The claim that the priorities of Minister Simonita's consolidation of political power, media subjugation, cultural politicisation, public sector control and human toying are purely trauma due to lost power. And with this interpretation today, you are really proving that you are only trying to overthrow the government, the coalition, the Slovenian Democratic Party and its ministers, and that your only goal at all costs is to undermine the reputation of the current government and ministers in the public. This government, according to you, must be brought down to the ground, even though with claims that are false, false, distorted and malicious. The 59 pages of interpolation have not convinced me at all that you are also involved in real autonomy and plurality of the media, especially RTV Slovenia, and in improving the situation of culture in our country. On the contrary, I am increasingly convinced that this is all about simply not being able to bear that you no longer have the exclusive influence and monopoly on the media and the wider cultural space in the country and that therefore the ego of some Liberal Democrats and Democrats is particularly affected. I claim that Dr Simonita is a politician and a minister who gives every moment to people in the country everything they are obliged to do and for which he has been elected and appointed. The claim that the new law, which was "condemned" by the Minister of Culture, introduces into the public institution RTV Slovenia fear, self-censorship, self-contained opinion, apathy, internal friction, discontent, frustration that journalists work under political pressure and that the autonomy of a once public institution is politically limited, is an insult to all journalists on RTV Slovenia because it is unfair. I ask on the basis of which analysis these statements about journalists have been recorded. Where is the evidence for such difficult words about the state of journalists and among journalists on RTV Slovenia? The fact is that the Institute of RTV Slovenia, in recent years and not only after the adoption of the new law, has become entangled in serious financial problems, which have just been called after recovery. It is also a fact that the institution has become a complex, opaque, strong and poorly controlled organisational system with such and different interests and diverse business, which is certainly not the responsibility of Dr Simonita, but the full responsibility of some former RTV Directors-Generals and Culture Ministers in previous mandates. Not to stress the long-standing management of the world of the institution by a former senior party official or famous letters: Dear Borut, dear Tone. The evidence of the deterioration of the programme on RTV Slovenia is a fabricated claim, as the interpretation is not accompanied by any analysis and evidence. Otherwise, the program does not create Dr. Simonita, nor did I notice that under any of the shows he would be signed as an author or co-author of the show, nor as a responsible editor. Mr President, if we could guarantee peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u31	It's true, please. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u32	Your claim has already been rejected this week by the Peace Institute, which monitored the activities of RTV Slovenia following the adoption of the new RTV Act, I quote: "From the point of view of journalistic political and ideological correctness, objectivity and neutrality in commenting and reporting there is no significant change". - end of quote. Since the adoption of the media law, I have also paid particular attention to such highly controversial corrections, and I note that the corrections do not occupy any more space than the previous periods, so the allegations of abuse of the provisions on correction are misleading and unrealistic. A journalist who searches for the truth and reports on the facts, that is, he behaves professionally, cannot be afraid of correction, but it is only right that a reader, if he so wishes, can tell the other side of the medal, even though we all know that no correction can fix everything. I argue that the media, I stress, at least some, are becoming more balanced, so I am pleased with the different opinions on events that finally enable citizens to make the truth, judgment, choice and decision, so that there is almost no longer the possibility of being exposed to deliberate or unintentional manipulation. Something else about the media in previous mandates, which you claim to have been autonomous and plural at the time. In 2001, so at the height of the rule of Liberal Democracy, Drago Jančar wrote, quote: "I want normal newspapers and television stations, correct, objective, professional, those that mirror the plurality of Slovenian society, and in Slovenia are written about people as garbage, of course not all, but especially those that need to be stopped and disabled for political reasons and expelled from public life." End of quote. Again and again, I find it a real shame that your sense, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the Liberal Democracy Club, the sense of democracy, independence, autonomy and plurality of the media were not so acute years ago. And if today, in interpolation, a person could recognize the desire to exercise reality, honesty and normality, it would be normal for us to develop dialogue for and against, face arguments and try to find solutions to common problems. Since all of this is not there, I am afraid we will continue to stand on the opposite shores. I was surprised to learn that Dr. Virant, although I do not understand why this information was being interpreted against Dr. Simoniti, announced several ten replacements at the time of the adoption of the Law on Public Servants, and that the Director of the Archives of Slovenia joined several hundred dismissed, transferred and outgoing public servants. They include cleaning, firing of insubordinate experts, bullying and transferring public workers, and the fact that there have been numerous changes, relocations, quick and arrogant executions at the Ministry of Culture. However, it turns out that there is another misleading untruth and that these so-called numerous cases were only three individuals from the Film Fund, Kobilarna Lipica and the Archive of Slovenia. I also don't understand what a quick and arrogant execution means. If this move is from one office to another or to another business building, then it has been done to me, because I have already changed the office twice in this mandate, and I have not really thought about the rapid and arrogant execution of me, and this logic should have affected me and made me feel terrible. But what about a few hundred dismissed, transferred and outgoing public servants, and today I expect clarifications, not by the minister, because this statement does not explain the number involved in the interpretation, or means the claim of a few hundred or even more public servants, and I would be really interested in this particular number today. About the Bled Castle, the Bled Island and Lipica, I claim that the allegations are misleading, but I would like to say something quite well that people who live in this and other places like to make their own lives and not fear that they will not take good care of cultural monuments, because they have kept them for centuries, but believe me, they are literally allergic to the constant commands and to the bruises of various theorists, thinkers and protectors from Ljubljana. I claim that the interpretation against Dr Simoniti, Minister of Culture, is not justified because it is not supported by any evidence, analysis or concrete documents, nor does it prove that there is a suspicion of a violation of the law or the Constitution. And despite the fact that it is formally irregular, it is also inappropriate and malicious. The various allegations and statements made by Mrs Širce in today's introduction to the interpretation presented by Mr Simoniti in concrete, reasoned and decisive terms have been rejected. In this House, I have already pointed out that honesty, which is still very much alive among Slovenians, and at this interpretation, I have thought that what is written about Mr Simoniti is not fair, nor is it written about his work, and even less what is written about the personal characteristics of the Minister. I emphasize, let's be honest! And as Dr. Trstenjak wrote, when there is no more honesty among the Slovenians, we will perish as a nation. I'm not going to support the interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u34	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister! [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Yeah, yeah, he's coming. Everything Mr Ljublješek has said is true, of course. Hold on, if we put all this long story down. So, what he denied should be confirmed, what he confirmed should be denied, and then even words with all their semantics would be in place. Although I didn't understand everything exactly, I have to admit, I was never in power and I don't know what kind of sweetness had escaped me. But I know what it was like when I was an editor at a time that you say was full of pressure. Even when someone pressed it, it was nice to defend it, and the one who pressured it was dirty, and the media could get it dirty, and he dirtyed it, which you remember. In those times where you say you didn't have space in the media, the analysis showed that in the year before the elections, in 2003, 70% of the media space occupied by the opposition was said to be with the current coalition, and only 30% with the position at the time, which of course includes the work of the Government. It was a relationship. You say there are no repairs. I believe they're gone. First, people don't want to do this, one is afraid, and thirdly, everyone doesn't have the money for the classes they set up to write corrections. But you know, when it was talked about how the correction would be simple, easy to write anyone or even direct him if he couldn't write, and today we have courses. The finances are taking courses, and I think they're being led by one of the ones who wrote this story about corrections. So it's pure business. You put that in there. I'm not saying that on purpose. You may have been so naive, so open-minded, so good, I don't know what, but that's right. Apparently, the stars were in such a constant that one cloud couldn't cover them all, and then everything seemed to be fine. But today we have a media blackout, a fat book that tells stories about it. You said you wanted the analysis, that you wanted the expert to talk about it. The profession talked a lot about it, and the analysis was done. You can see exactly how the ratings of RTV Slovenia's programs are falling, how ratings are falling, how those who have been anything else are retreating into impossible timeframes, so that people can't even watch them. I know, you'll say, again, this Gulic keeps repeating. Of course, I repeat, because it's on RTV and RTV is a common repetition. This is what we need to do in order to be coordinated. About the RTV contribution and how there is some 600 million losses. I'll tell the story back. Finally, the RTV contribution was increased because it was said that some 3% of this money would go to other media, namely local, regional and radio stations. That money was taken and put in his pocket. As a result of the Constitutional Court's decision, this has never been done, but this money has, of course, used RTV Slovenia and still uses it, because the contribution has not been reduced for what was promised, it is said that it will decrease in general, nor has it been reduced for the money that was brought about by the last increase, as if we had forgotten about it. That was about a billion dollars, as much as today's money is about the media. So 600 million is still a loss. So if you actually went back to the previous state of RTV contribution, you should go down with a lot more money and then there would be a lot more losses. Where did this loss come from? The author's shows are no longer, matters that are relatively expensive are called documentarys, comments, then looking for different data, not all of it. There are other direct transfers of matters that already exist and are cheap broadcasts when people are drawn to the studio. That's all that's left to be seen from its own production. And then we're surprised the ratings are dropping. People are rude because they don't watch this TV because they don't want to watch the third program because they're retreating to other TVs, including POP TV, people watch the National Geographic if they want to have fun, watch the Animal Planet, not the third program. That's what's going on. Not only has media ratings declined, but the reading of newspapers that were valid in this country has fallen. That's what you can see from 80,000 to 60,000, and that's the issue papers, because good journalists have gone. I'm not saying they came bad, but I'm sure they're not that experienced and so skilled. So, the thing completely destroyed and ate up the system that existed. A system that ensured freedom that ensured the word to all people, the opposition, the position, the different parties, the different positions. Today, of course, the only thing that can be seen is the burning of intolerance, hatred, and so on. Serious themes retreat into so-called ifnotation, where you can deal with them in a variety of ways, because they seem to lose their seriousness anyway. The political impact on the public institution is very clear and clear. I will not now repeat all those stories about voting, etc., the people who are watching and listening to us now can also help themselves, take, I don't know, the position from a year ago, compare it to that from last month and see that there is no difference in the number, only they will see that for the same money they got much less. But if it's not an exaggeration, then I don't know what it is. If we avoid all these mathematical tricks that you so much like to tell about inflation that appreciates all things. I said one of these earlier, I'm going to say cultural fraud, which has crossed the border, so that's the milk thing, for the same money instead of a liter, 95 centimetres, or 950 millilitres, that's 5% inflation. It's simple. And since the sample was given, the sample is used and these samples are flooding Slovenia. At one point, all things are allowed because they are obviously always forgiven. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say a lot more about this, but something like this has been said here, or at some point before, to ask for an answer. At this point, I ask the Minister who lied, Dr Vasko Simoniti or Dr Aloyzi Krizman, about the Puppet Theatre. The question is simple, simple and I do not think the answer will be difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u36	Thank you very much. So, a few questions have come up, and I'm going to try to answer them in a row. I may also repeat myself sometimes because these questions are also repeatedly repeated, or in other words, the same is said and I will try to answer or at least give my opinion on the statements of honourable Members and Members. So, first of all, Mrs Shirco, who started her exposé, so to speak, about the Minister having set up a war and that fear has spread among people and that, of course, it lasts, so that there is a certain discomfort on RTV Slovenia - the public institution and some other things. Well, first I'd answer for fear. Fear of democracy can only be experienced by those who have a bad conscience. On the other hand, when it comes to RTV from all sides and it is obvious to me, in fact what is wrong with RTV Slovenia and the political influence of the Minister of Culture. Well, I'm glad to hear the terrible power I have, but I have to say that I don't actually practice these terrible powers, because I think personally that I don't have it. On the other hand, RTV Slovenia is a public institution, independent and, of course, many of the issues you have raised, you must, of course, address directly to the RTV public institution. Of course, I have obtained some information and will try to tell myself, but once again - RTV Slovenia is a public institution and ascribed to me all these things about substitutions and influences on the program, in fact I find very inappropriate. But it is true that I notice that it falls into certain contradictions. On the one hand, there is talk about how television is unsightly, how it is intended to transfer all software content and broadcasts. I have to say, that's a lot for hair and I just don't deal with these things. With regard to the parliamentary programme, you know very well that the arrangements run in the National Assembly and with RTV. Regarding digitisation, this is a new challenge which Slovenia is also obliged to meet by 2012 and, as I know, this digitisation is already being carried out on RTV to a certain extent and that all plans have been made for this digitisation to be carried out, at the right time, by 2012, as is the case with the European guidelines. As regards the fact that the assets that are to be reported as profits are derived from the sale of shares. I am informed that this is not the case, even in my response to the interpolation, I have made it very clear that these assets that show profit are actually the result of this year's work, i.e. in my opinion of the successful Director-General; and those offensive subtons that we will talk about because I have heard them today on various car matters seem to me to be highly depressed and inadequate. What if we remembered the various directors of various concrete factories who, I don't know, had made progress. I'd like to say the following about watching TV. Yes, public television is virtually falling across Europe, but this should not be an excuse, only as a modest fact, but it must be found that television has been falling steadily and not only in the last year, when new leadership is taking place, but the new leadership is virtually good for six months at the helm. When Mrs Ethical spoke about the principles of ethics, I must say that in my reply I have made it very clear where the ethics of the Member's Member, which also regulates its family-business matters as an influential political worker, is long-lasting and with many functions. About the Roma community. On RTV, you're familiar, I hope, or if you can get to know the shows, I think it's right to get to these shows. Leadership contacts with both the Roma community and experts from abroad and also at home were also attracted from various civil society representatives who jointly agreed on what to do and how to make individual shows for this Roma community. As I know, there is also a selection of candidates from the Roma community in terms of whether or not the training that these shows can lead, so I think they will start with these things at the beginning of the second year. I don't know where Madam Members got this, the argument was that she knew that something had been decided in my office and that it was decided on everything, it would be interesting to hear if she could make this very clear. As far as Fahrenheit was concerned, he was played on television, not in the time frame, as you said, but he was pretenses. I also saw this film myself, I could say, a political pamphlet that is worthy of sighting, which is critical, but slowly also a bit boring after two hours. It is true that RTV Slovenia has 36 million euros from the sale of Eutelsat shares and that some shares are still in circulation. This will be guaranteed for digitisation, according to the assurance of the previous leadership and the current one. With regard to the CEO's salary, ask RTV about his salary. I myself know, given the surpluses that have been achieved this year, that I, as a competent minister, have signed that wages can increase by 4.7% in terms of performance. In terms of ratings, here are contradictions, on the one hand you claim that ratings are falling, on the other hand many Members speak, which broadcasts everything should be, covering the Slovenian space and responding to those content that needs to be covered, but still little consideration, so that your different opinions need to be reconciled somehow. But it's also about the film art that we've been talking about, and it's also in some program on Wednesdays, and this ratings have fallen from 8% to 2% the same in the last four years. With regard to the religious content that was suggested to be more and more, it is necessary to make it very clear that religious content is less than it was in the 1990s, and this is verifiable, particularly around 96 and 97, the religious content on RTV Slovenia was more than it is today. Spectators and viewers observe the changes, have been said, and are discussing this. I think it's good that there's been a change on TV. Perhaps he is also trying to increase viewership on some shows, but some want to enhance these content properly, enrich them, and perhaps make their visions even better. So that it is not unusual that the debate on a programme to improve it actually lasts continuously, I think it takes time in all the cultural institutions in Slovenia, and I think it is remarkable and natural. The principle of the State Department, it was said, we did get a letter. Mr Jerovšek or Mr Jerovšek [[....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] They received a letter from the State Department saying that they did not condemn Slovenia in any way concerning the RTV law, but that they only notified that the new RTV law had come. With regard to where freedom of the press in our country and in the world is at stake after the ratings, we must say that at the time of the previous authorities it was at the 19th and then it seems to me 15th or 16th place, Slovenia is now 10th place, while many other countries, including the United States, are 53rd place in this regard. You were talking about the media, about the fund. No media fund is involved; it is a normal call, which is all the basis for this funding. The criteria are clear, the calls have been and are running according to those rules that are verifiable. If you think that anything is wrong, of course it would be useful to report it to the Ministry of Culture or to the competent other law enforcement authorities. I think that the findings are deplorable and offensive to the members of the commission who are all actually academically educated, i.e. extremely quality people who are also familiar with the media, but this flaker is wider, which I think can only contribute to better choice and decisions in the selection of applicants for these media resources. With regard to the right to correction, I would only say this - I would no longer renew what the law contains, we have processed it for, I don't know, a good six months. I would say that on RTV Slovenia, in the last period, so since the law was in force, only 8 requests for an amendment were received, while 3 were actually enforced, the others were probably justifiably rejected. It's the same thing over and over again about Lipica. So, unreal facts or unrealistic data on how it was allocated from the 196 million funds that were won, 120 million for golf. That's not true either. There were 184 million won and only 58 million won to restore golf. Regarding Mr Gulic, who likes to use Latin quotations and says that I disqualified Mrs Shirca in my opening text. No, I didn't. I think she's on her own, and it was very clear just what some things give me additional inadequacy when it comes to the obviouss that have been given me. He's also talking about billions of tolars for the fund, which we've already mentioned a hundred times that it's not a fund, but it's a normal, what I'd call a normal tender, and it's Latin for it to be called "opinionum commenta", if you know what that means, because you like to use Latin terms. With regard to the obvious fact that we have a language sector that should be the minister responsible for the students in Brussels, I must say that the language sector in the Ministry has a very clear task, which is very well known and is also on the Internet, so it has very clear tasks. In this regard, the other Ministry is concerned and others are competent. But it is true that I myself know that there is a problem with teachers. The eyewitnesses - I don't know where, as I would say, the constant belief that all things are decided by the minister. Mrs Zalokareva also makes it clear to me that I am doing this and that, and she calls on me indirectly to arrange football transfers, however. Once again, I would say that it is very embarrassing for you to judge who actually governs this television. I don't know, it's extremely offensive to the program board, to the control board, to the professional editors. Well, I find it strange how you humiliate people. About the milk that Mr Gulič was talking about. True, of course, milk is as much as, 950 milliliters in one bottle, but this is a comparison that is better heard for others, but with only the subscription or contribution to RTV it does not. If, once again, you think that the contribution is not falling, so that it does not fall, then freeze your wages, freeze them and wait two years, we will see if they notice if these salaries are actually falling. And you'd probably do a lot of work because you've got quite a lot of pay. Mrs. Purchasing, I find myself incompetent to have a dialogue. I must say that with regard to the media and the laws, there has been a lot of debate, i.e. public attacks, controversial debates and debates have been extremely long and I think it is still going on today, as we see. So, what else should it be like to have a dialogue when we talk? I don't know, we're talking, Mrs. Potrata also referred to certain articles as if we were to start talking about the RTV law again. I don't know, we can go through the law again, and we can read all the articles again. I don't know if that's smart or smart. The issue of programmes of particular importance in the RTV law has not been resolved, it has been said. We know that, it's settled now definitively, and that's the government's arrangement that the previous one isn't. Thus, we have arranged this in the media law quite appropriately, and on this basis, all the procedures that lead to these organisations, one would say, have been given adequate resources, according to the Commission's assessment. About the Peace Institute that we talked about. I already mentioned, I have to say that I didn't read the papers because it was yesterday or the day before yesterday. She's probably been available before, but I haven't been able to read it or get it. However, what Mrs Potrata said more prejudges things. He's saying that the institute is going to be something on the basis of something that's supposed to happen. So, if that can be an argument for once, I don't think it's appropriate. With regard to the national programme for culture, so with regard to the reports, if I overlooked, we gave them away. The Parliament's Committee on Culture has confirmed this; these reports have been discussed, including the National Council for Culture and the Strategic Council; they have both given a positive role; otherwise, as I know, the National Programme has been mandatory since 1994 and has never been, and I don't know, what reactions have been and how much blood has been poured into it. The new national programme for culture is being prepared and I hope it will be a timely day in the process and in the public debate before the end of the next year. I would only like to tell Mr Sok about Lipica that there has been an increase in the health care of horses and this is also dependent on the veterinary service. I also wanted to say that the breeding position was too small and also with regard to the selection of these horses being carried out and daily, following the development of Lipica, including in the field of horsemen, if you want. With regard to Mr Pečet, if I am not mistaken, I must say, it may have sounded that way, perhaps Mr Grims will have something to add to this. I still think I run the Ministry of Culture. Mr Grims participated in the RTV Act, that is not a secret, that is what was written about. The Minister usually does not write laws personally or rarely, but he participates in the process itself, clearly, and there are others involved. I hope the Ministry runs it, and I believe I will run it tomorrow. With regard to Dinner and Work and these biases, which have been announced that this is a matter of government, I must say that the ownership structure of Work and Dinner is in majority, private property. With regard to Mr Gabra, who is asking about the Puppet Theatre, I say that this is not true what Mr Križman said is not true. But it was true that I was talking about this, that there was a lot of wind about these things, that there was a lot of talk, and I was surprised that it was really some pre-election impulse and terrible pressure. I am surprised, however, that thus, Mr Petek, Mr Sovič, Mayor, and Mr Rector, a man of many titles and meanings, at the same time the President of the Council of the Puppet Theatre, Mr Križman, have been at the helm of the municipality of Maribor in the past 12 years, or as mayors or as saints. If we had shown interest, and at the right time, from 1992 onwards, we would probably have succeeded under other ministers, if I had not been in favour of him, as you claim, under other ministers would certainly have succeeded in terms of political ties, if you wanted, and of course their strong political position and the influential position they enjoyed in Maribor. But, of course, it was other things. Above all, that in Maribor there was a puppet theatre in the vision of the so-called "cultural tolar" in the first period, but the Maribor municipality replaced this by focusing on the reconstruction of the Maribor castle, for the needs of the provincial museum, which was later listed so they themselves decided at the time. Now, of course, there are probably fewer options. However, I will certainly try to be contrary to this matter as much as possible, because I am aware of the importance of such a type of theatre, but I find it extremely inappropriate of those three people who had political functions and great power in the city of Maribor to have manipulated such a sensitive thing as child and parental feelings during the pre-election period. Mrs Zalokar Orazem, I must say that I am aware of obscenity and arrogance, but these are labels and some personal characteristics that are characteristic of former jobs that have entered such things into characteristics, and I have had the opportunity to see them personally, such as the extremes of low grades of low people from others, and I find them to be extremely offensive and inappropriate. Especially if the same Member says that Mito Trefalt is a faithful servant and that some of the new editors are cleaners. I'm sorry, but with your cultural level, you'll have to do it on your own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor. Do you have a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u38	The explanation requested by the Minister wants and wants me to be more specific in the statements given in the introductory text on the decision-making of the President of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia. In the introductory text, I said that this decision had taken place in your office or that you defined it. Therefore, let me just make it clear that your position, which has been made public, was your decision that the first President of the Supervisory Board should become Dr. Janez Jerovšek, was made public by the members of the Supervisory Board, specifically Mr Janez Čadež, who admitted that you had ordered them to elect Mr Jerovšek as Chairman of the Supervisory Board. After having to make a decision following the resignation of Mr Janez Jerovsk as new president, Mr Janez Čadež wanted to make himself president of the Supervisory Board, but the trained members refused to vote until they received the appropriate instructions from you, Mr Minister. Upon election of the current President, a member of the Supervisory Board, Tomaž Glajar, admitted that he intended to run for this post, but that he did not receive adequate support at the Ministry and therefore proposed a candidate who was then at the discretion of the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Minister, wait for Mrs. Zalockarova's replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u40	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, please, if I may. Thank you. Mr. Minister has now responded to some things in the long run. However, I must say that I have repeatedly stressed that some words - and the last thing you mentioned, are placed and set up as cleaners - are not my words. That's what he said and wrote to Mr. Janko Lorenzo. And most of my advertisements or my debates were sentences written by Jože P. Damian - you have not answered anything about this at all, but I will remind you a little, if you can tell us anything about media pressures by parastate companies in the form of advertisers. There was nothing to talk about, but I did mention the Government and the pressures that the former Minister has made clear in the way the Government operates in this regard. And that seems like a very dangerous story to me. An extremely dangerous story is the destruction of the media, which are still upright, which are independent, in a way - through advertising. And it was plainly read from under Jozet Damian's pen that such instructions were by the government: of this ye said nothing. You also did not respond to the fact that for more than two months you spoke to the Slovenian public about the author of the law as an expert public. The professional public is obviously a fellow Member of Grims, who is today, but is now very clear and loudly saying that from the first to the last letter, the law is his. Well, and this is obviously all the Slovenian professional public in the field of media. And you said it on TV and kept saying it over and over again. And the sentence I have left. Well, you didn't say anything about Vida Petrovčič, either. You can keep your mouth shut today; it's an unpleasant story, you don't like it, you want to put it away, but we'll warn you about it. What is your opinion on such removal from the daily information section that it no longer prepares financial and economic shows, but only the Midnight Club. I'm obviously asking you because this was done by a man who currently has only a position in.d., Rajko Gerič, a former unionist, a very warm journalist who did a lot years ago. He succeeded in removing the editor Uroš Lipusček because he did not want to publish the note immediately in the Echoes. This time he's an executioner, he, and it's not like that Mr. is just a v.d., it's obviously going to be a long time before you try him out, or it's going to be true, because v.d.-Eviction is also something you could talk about when I'm talking about fear. You said fear is only for those who have a bad conscience. That's right. I agree, but at least that's how I was taught. Fear has multiple faces. It's just an emotion that has multiple faces, and one of them can also be fear of losing a job. People have little kids, journalists have families. And in RTV, we were able to read this too, but it is being prepared, I think the director has announced at least 200 removals or closures of work contracts, fees and regular working relationships in terms of rationalisation. And surely everyone thinks when you talk about fear being gone, perhaps even on this matter of their own, which could be called existential fear. And that's what we talked about. As far as correction is concerned, you have also boasted at your press conference that this is a positive consequence of the Media Act, the right to correction and the answer, because this is a constitutional right which has been supplemented in the new law. And you yourself were talking about constitutional justice, but when you were here explaining the corrections, three were on RTV days, it was clearly the Bajuk correction that he chose, and your correction. Of course, you said, "The Vendalls were probably left behind, in my opinion, probably," you said, "justifiably discarded." I don't know if with things like the correction that you've been applying for and taking up for it, today could be "probably unjustifiable". Even my material, you said you didn't want me to take it and send it to where I knew it. I've already sent him there, but you're the minister who passed this marriage and you have to have an opinion on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I'll try to answer Mrs. Zalokar's questions first. You've talked a lot and you've quoted a lot of different media about what they're writing and how this freedom is hardened and rejuvenated and so on and so forth. A little contradictory, interesting, that's what the media are supposed to say. Well, that's weird. With regard to Mr Damian, I really don't know anything about these influences and the sharing of various advertisements. You're saying you quoted Mr. Lawrence, yes, you did, and you also said something about Mr. Mitt Trefalt. The professional public, of course, was preparing the law for the professional public, absolutely. I also consider Mr Grimes to be a man who knows a great deal about these things. And these are not the undertones, but they are a little underestimating opinions and smiles and so on, you know, very much knows about these things. In addition, experts from the Ministry themselves participated and there were also some external members who helped. In addition, it was then checked and supplemented in the light of the course of the adoption process itself. You claim that RTV is preparing 200 removals. I don't know, let me ask you about RTV, please. As for Petrovčič, I have nothing to say, this is an editorial competence, these are the criteria for the professional side of editorial competence in which competent people and editors judge there. It is probably logical that there is a hierarchy that is required as in all the world’s editorial systems, probably so. Now, speaking of the likelihood that three contributions have been taken into account, I'm sorry, but the other five are not entitled to correction. I'm just informed, I've got information about how much of this was going on, because it was said before the reception that thousands of these corrections were going to be, I've been looking into other officers, and there's nothing more about these requests for corrections than there was before, even a lot less. In particular, on RTV, which we all like to discuss so much, I asked myself, but eight of them were taken into account, and five of them were probably rejected in their opinions, and that's all I said, but there's nothing else I can say, because I haven't read them, and I won't read yours either. That's what this is about. We have many proverbs about fear, one is that it's empty inside, and there's nothing about it. As for Mrs Širca, however, saying that Mr Janez Čadež admitted this, and that then another gentleman, I apologize, I forgot my last name, yes, Tomaž Glajar, that he also said that, I don't know, I may have spoken to Mr Chad twice in my life, I don't know when. I don't think I've ever seen Mr Tomaž Glajar before in my life, and I haven't even spoken to him. I can only ask, I can promise to ask. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Gaber, you have reached out on behalf of the motioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to check one claim myself to see if I got it right. You, Mr. Secretary, were saying that Dr. Crossman was not telling the truth. Did I get it right? So, you were just telling the truth, he wasn't talking. I myself, let me say, with the help of colleagues who are here in Parliament and who know Mariborians and Mr Križman well, have established a relationship with him. He claims you're not telling the truth here right now. He is behind everything I have said, for I have done nothing but read the literal record of the session. It will be very interesting, I hope that this will be taken care of by the anti-corruption commission, which will determine who really lied. For now, I'm going to remain indecisive, and I would very much like the Minister of this country to be telling the truth. If he really didn't speak, then he lied, that's what we call it in Slovenia. By the way, Mr. Minister, if you would listen to this last part now, you're a living innocence and you're in politics by mistake. You're not actually working politically right now either. You don't really know anything about anything. In the field of media, things happen on their own, we all have to ask. I believe in an important part of you, but I warn those who are watching us, and those who are trying to establish a dialogue here, that it can really only be in one case. If you have written a law by placing it in all the places of the people who are willing and your executioners are there - the executioners of this power, if they do the very business for which you have just set them up. What leads me to believe that this is most likely the case? A very simple fact: there is clearly a media tsunami in the media landscape. As many people as have moved since you've been running this area, they simply couldn't leave because they were so bad because they were unprofessional. I guess something else is going on. It's politically motivated. And we don't have to explain - and I believe it's true - that you don't directly edit TV and radio shows, it would be really more than funny if you did. However, if it turns out that your role and the role of your laws and those who have obviously helped you to write them are not so innocent, then it will be judged by the public in this country and in the long term will show whether you have a role in Slovenia for the person who has relaxed this area; it has not been without mistakes. However, those who think that they have been given from God and those who believe that everything that has been going on to them has been bad or, at least, in the most important things, they can believe that they are doing only good. I belong to a suit that made mistakes in those years when she was in power. And I'm also falling into a suit that I think she's done a lot of good for this country. If I'm listening to you, then I feel like the world, at least as far as the good news is concerned, started with you. I hope he doesn't end up with you, too, running on like he did. There was a lot of good stuff. There have been mistakes to upgrade in the right direction. However, I fear that the human resources tsunami in various areas - no one has replaced the directors, even there, everything has happened just like that, in companies, even in schools, everything happens by accident - you know nothing about it. This government doesn't know anything about it. Explain these things to someone else; the more they belong to the evening parts, where fifteen to eight usually explain them, then they go to the bed which was explained to them. If fairy tales are excessively boring and excessively innocent, they do not listen to them quite often.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, have you returned your call? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u46	Thank you very much. So, about Mr. Crossman.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u47	Mr. Secretary, a little louder for the recording.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u48	With regard to Mr Križman, I have made it very clear. Now, if this is the Commission to fight corruption that will be responsible for this, I do not know which authorities are responsible. You say I'm a living innocence and I don't know anything and so on. As Minister, I know what needs to be known, and I would really avoid it until we have firm in the hands of these eyewitnesses, which you refer to me to avoid these very long-lasting and ears-loving exclamation points and words by executioners, liars, servants and purgatory. Look, I'd like to ask, let's be specific, list the cleaners, list the liars, and list the executioners, which are very serious accusations.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Gaber on behalf of the proposer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u50	I will ask the Minister to read, for the time being, what I have been talking about, to read his answer to the interpolation and also to read what terms he has used personally. Once he is able to determine where the differences were and what his words are, we will believe that he can have a credible discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u51	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u52	I'm really asking you what words I used in interpolation. Write them down and I'll argue with them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Gaber. The first one raised his hand, Mr. Gaber. Here you go. On behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u54	I'm staying with mine. The minister listed here what was said. I understand he'll ask and see what words he invented himself. When he takes them back, it will be possible to discuss this from then on. Otherwise, for starters, Minister, count the number of occurrences in your answer, which says everything, about the habitat of the person who signed it, how many times you talk about lies and exploits on this topic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u55	Thank you. And Mrs. Shirca on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u56	When the interpolation was introduced, it was true that it was a good literary work, but this literature happened only with the answer and allow me to complement my colleague Slavko, who wanted to talk about this literature, Mr Minister, because the terms we find in your answer can, of course, be put to the question. Those who read said you've had enough to be no longer secretary. For, say, when you talk about the national programme for culture or the law on providing special money for cultural investment, I quote, "that the head only with common sense knows that the minister's legal and other documents help, among other things, to lead a policy to better set certain goals, but not to rule in their place". And this was said in the context of something else, which is of course very problematic that the minister can afford to even think about what to say and write. That is, that the resolution on the national programme for culture does not have the legal status and status of the legal instrument. Of course, it brings out a philosophy that there is no need to respect it. Otherwise, your expression is very varied and goes on to say that it is a matter of deplorable defendants, confusional accusations, diversion, for pre-election time, for flatulence, for abstractity, for fabrication of claims and for great fat confusion, for malicious moods, for propaganda bubbles, etc. Of course, Minister, it would be much more appropriate for you not to speak with dignity, so that those expressions, which you do not express well, would be silenced and used instead of arguments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr Janc has a word on the schedule.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr Minister with a co-worker, colleague and colleague! What is arduous is today's meeting, and it will certainly be until the end of today, and these numerous accusations, obvious, unfortunately sometimes even insulting colleagues to the minister, to the ministry and in my opinion we repeat the story of the RTV law, repeat the story of the referendum, repeat the story of the failed referendum for some and repeat the thing a year ago, what happened then, some great injustice. Is everything really that bad on RTV, or is everything really so wrong there? I don't know. I don't have that feeling. Maybe someone's being wronged. Probably, but all we're saying today is clearly more or less an attack on RTV leadership, not the minister. That's what we're talking about. That's all we're talking about, what's not in this RTV law, who wrote it, who's the author, who's not. We've processed this story more or less, in my opinion. We had a referendum, we decided there as we did, today we are here again on that date last year 1995, unhappy for some, September, when voters did not make the right decision, it was a mistake and there is nothing there now. And this is also a key element for the Minister's interpretation. I believe that in his work he has also made some mistake and probably some kind of obvious confession he might have ever made, but in general, when I listen to all of this today, I cannot find any legitimate reasons for the discharge of the Minister of Culture. Because all you've been saying and saying right now is a lot of things, because, after all, the minister doesn't run RTV, the minister isn't an editor, the minister isn't a journalist, he can't really influence the Dela media house, which is private property. This seems to me to be the perceptions that are not in place, and you are probably aiming past or you do not want to talk about this unfortunate law about RTV here in front of the Slovenian public. I don't know, the obvious also there that the Media Act that was passed, I don't see in it that bad. The media law has brought a lot of positive effects on the regional local network, we have received some money, small radio and television houses have received some money to make it easier to create at this regional-local level, and this story, according to my assessment, has been positively adopted. We've got some extra momentum, and I don't think it's as bad as it sounds in this House that it doesn't all apply. The migration of journalists has been, is, and will certainly be. That's a fact. Either in this government, or in the previous government, or in the future government. This is happening in general. Some offer more, better conditions and people move. Why not? What's wrong here? Here come the good ones, come the bad ones, go the bad ones, go the good ones and go the other way. I don't even know if it's the minister's fault. I don't think so. First of all, the employer, therefore, offers better conditions, better pay, less work, more money. But I don't know if the Minister is guilty in this country. I'm just imagining it differently. I don't think so, but it can be different. As far as RTV is concerned, we have heard about this today and this happy or unhappy Pyramid. Last night was, like, weird. I don't know if it's also the minister's fault that this pyramid is listed and who are performing there and how they talk and why they talk like that. Is the minister responsible for this, too? Let's be serious. I think it's down to that eighth knee that the minister is guilty if someone comes to the show and talks about it anyway. And he's not talking about the Roma, but he's talking about the Gypsies that it's not the Minister's fault, I think. Or to watch football somewhere in Domžal, in Sevnica we prefer to watch handball, but we are Slovenians. We have different views, different desires, visions and so on. And it's not the Minister's fault, either. I don't know, I think we're going too far with this story, and I think we're going in the wrong direction. As for media presence, who is more present, who is less present, opposition, position more. I believe there's enough balance here. If we look at the media, the media, and the opposition, in my opinion, have a fairly balanced position, I'll say, filled columns in the newspapers, or even seconds on TV. I do not know who may be disadvantaged here, but probably never every politician is satisfied enough to be present. Everyone wants to be more, I'm sure. I think there's a lot of balance here. And here I don't know what the minister can say that more positions or opposition will be on one watch, or on one television. I think that these many eyewitnesses are obviously flying on this unfortunate law of RTV, which obviously some of you haven't gotten over, but it's obviously fallen so deep in there and it's hard to get through, and this is the last blow to the minister who's the main culprit or not this unfortunate law, and that now it's all wrong on RTV, that nothing is true that nothing was right, that watching falls, not watching television, watching too much or too little, I don't know. In short, I am sure that this is not true and that, of course, there is no justification that because of this law, due to the consequences of this law now everything will be wrong, everything, nothing is valid. This is not true and this cannot affect the Minister's extradition as well, but we have adopted this law in the National Assembly and, last but not least, at the highest level, we have reaffirmed it that this is, and this is a referendum. And I don't know why there's so much going back to this point that I think has been told and processed so many times at all possible levels. I do not see any serious argument to vote in favour of interpretation, certainly not. And of course, it is also possible today, as many times as it has been, that some colleagues, colleagues, may spend a little more time with the Slovenian public on television screens and attack the minister, the Slovenian Government, for nothing. I don't think that's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Scholch, on behalf of the motioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I think the questions of my colleague Janz, who I believe is sincere, just require some further explanation. Look, Mr. Janc and other colleagues, why there is so much discussion about RTV. In a formal sense it is all true that things are different, but in fact the situation is such that the management of the public institution RTV Slovenia puppet is in the hands of the government and coalition. As much as the SDS attracts, as much as New Slovenia draws or the People's Party in this case does not matter. I believe to Mr Sok that nobody who leads to New Slovenia has been cut off and that no one else is leading that one. We've heard a lot about how this happened. Two things are crucial. The establishment of the world and the setting-up of how it has been achieved are key. You voted the world by sending you the leadership of the coalition a note that gave you the names you have to surround. The same thing happened with the supervisory board, and these people put the director up and so on, and they answer to the coalition. We can nod about this and pretend things are different, Mr Kumer will be able to show you the list that he has, I will say, accidentally slipped into his hands because many of your species are also turning their stomachs because of such methods. That we don't want to see it here or you don't want to see it, it's cheating. Now let's move on to other things. Today, a fellow Grimes said: "You know that I was actually the main author who wrote it was confirmed at the referendum. I was the author of this marriage in its entirety, what is now tangled up to be written by Klemen Jaklič and so on are pure nonsense." I believe Mr. Grimes. We have heard some of the consequences of what this means today. But, Mr. Minister, if you recognize the following quotations, I would ask you who wrote this law. "Like the second law, this law was prepared within the competent ministry and in accordance with the considerations of its experts." This is a quote from Maga 13.4.2005. It is said, within the competent ministry and in accordance with the considerations of its experts. "It was written by the Ministry," that's your statement. Your statement on April 22nd last year, when you introduced a discussion on this law, was: "The bill was prepared by experts at the Ministry with the assistance of some external experts and is in line with the competent government services and ministries. However, it makes sense to take into account most of the comments made by the representative unions of RTV Slovenia, the management of RTV Slovenia and other interested parties." That's when the other unions, the leadership, and you called and told them it wasn't true. You silenced them with a swing of your hand. How are you going to explain today that you've been saying that this law is the result of the Ministry's work, that it was prepared by experts? Is it not a matter of deceiving, Mr. Minister, by someone who talks about political culture, transparency, openness of information and so on? It took more than a year for the author to reveal himself and speak. It does not surprise me too much that you have done a dirty task for him; but, it raises the question, Minister, why you lied to the Slovenian public all the time. Why did you lie to her? Why are you pretending today that you don't know what's going on at the RTV? In the morning, you could read a protest by radio journalists asking themselves why they couldn't report from the scene on these things that got mixed up in and around Abruzzi. What's different than pressure on autonomy? I'm allowing the possibility that you don't know anything. I allow the possibility that you're cheating here. But I don't believe you don't know that. I can't believe you're lying because you lied about writing the law yourself. The Minister, you, I will say, instead of establishing a political culture and a culture of dialogue, what we can call a culture of deception and lies from this point of view at this point in time, Mr Minister, I expect that you can only reconsider those statements about what Mr Križman said, not least today he is at the meeting of the Committees of the State and can, in front of the witnesses, confirm again what he said. Of course you can wave with your hands, but Mr. Secretary, I'm afraid a lie has short legs.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u62	Excuse me, but the priors say I'm a liar, someone who claims to have said something, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u63	Mr. Grimes, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. I was so directly challenged. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u65	He was appointed several times by the previous speakers, named after him.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u66	A fellow schoolboy! If you allow, your statement is a beautiful reflection of this political culture of yours, similar to that of yesterday's balinian behaviour celebrating Simon Gregorčič, which you prevented with your completely unnecessary pause and thus showed a political culture, just like this moment. In fact, if you're talking about writing some kind of marriage dirty work, you've forgotten in this case at least one thing that this law has been confirmed at the referendum. I hope at this point you're already sorry for the words you've said. In view of this, because you have inspired my statements and, of course, you have addressed my statement properly, interpreted it in your own way, but what the Minister has said does not exclude in any way, because if you read my statement in full, I have specifically stressed that I have written the basic text and that it has then been coordinated, it has been through the whole process of coordination, both within the Ministry and throughout the government, as normally required by the procedure of intergovernmental, intergovernmental coordination and in this coordination have been accompanied by both internal and external legal experts. But like I said, most of the text and the basic solutions remained the same as I wrote them myself. I am very happy about this, because I also consider this in some way to recognise the legal profession, that I have done a great job in which, believe me, I have put in a lot of study, especially foreign models, from Austria on, well done. This has also been confirmed by voters, after all, and I have said this once before, I consider it the greatest honor I have ever had to experience. By the way, when you're talking, it took a year for it to be revealed -- that's exactly what I said a long time ago during the referendum campaign. But that then, it came in concretely, if you want, on the day the results were announced, even the sentences were, I think, the same, the same TV that shot it, then it didn't play anymore. Why, I'll leave your imagination to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Skull, as a proposalant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u68	Look, I won't discuss it with Mr. Grimsky. When we looked in Cobis for his professional references, we ran into one, namely a degree in geology and the Faculty of Natural Science. When we looked for possible references in the fields of sociology, communication science, etc., his name is nowhere. We have not been able to obtain this in international indices, but this is not a question. The question is to the Minister of Culture, who claims to have worked in the Ministry of Culture by means of experts in this field. Where are you, if it's revealed today, I'll say, an expert in geology as the lead writer. And in this context, Mr. Minister, your arguments are "on short legs" that I do not repeat the word that will encroach on you. You're obviously not ready to tell the truth. As for the celebration, Mr Grims, I was at Gregorčič's celebration yesterday and I was also in Kobarid on Friday at Gregorčič's celebration, so could you if you wanted.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you. Procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u70	Mr. Chairman. Let me ask you, as President of the National Assembly, to explain to Mr Školč that at least, which is incompatible with some basic ethics that you should follow in the National Assembly, that if you cannot criticize someone's work, then either attack education or relatives or some other personal circumstance. This is one of the most primitive forms of political struggle that even exists, and I do not think it is an honor for the National Assembly. And all this interpretation in this way - in the end, even the proponents, in fact, in the eyes of the public, with such, allow, inappropriate statements, to show as just one lamentation of those who were defeated at a referendum. I think it's all very sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u71	This wasn't exactly a procedural proposal. I would ask that we continue with the list of applicants, which is very long. We're only on the 5th application and I'd like to ask you to hold off on some of the fitting inserts. Can I continue with the registered list? Thank you. Mr. Friend, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That really clouded the fact a little bit. I agree that the minister doesn't lie, but he doesn't tell the truth, and that's a fact. Or maybe the truth steals a little by itself. It'll be more cultural. Some of you are really trying here to actually please the minister and the government. And yet, in some words, it is possible to agree with the minister. He used to talk about bad conditions in Lipica, talking about how horses suffer. He also talked about people wanting to take care of certain things in their own place. I come from Séžana alone, and I agree with the Minister. I would really like to make sure, as much as I have been given, that, in fact, Lipica would be different, as well as colleague Terčon, who is now mayor of Sežana, probably has the same desires and desires. But he wasn't given that. For the situation in Lipica the culprit is known, this is the Government, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. If you don't want to or if you don't want to, Minister, you're also responsible. For daily regular damage to the economic and general cultural, if you want, there is also essentially damage in the area of cultural heritage - you are responsible. Trust is like innocence in a girl who can be lost by saying - I will not say - you lie about pretending to be the truth, that you are basically saying what has nothing to do with reality and this trust - at least I personally can say that you have already lost it to me in the vast majority of the Primors. You no longer have confidence; in short, it's a shame you're still a minister. Because you don't have credibility, and because you've been doing what you are, in violation of the law. You yourself have admitted that the government has earmarked 58 million for golf - it is best that you resign yourself. You have spent 58 million on golf, which will, see, in the opinion of the International Association for Lipica is essentially an exclusive in representing some partial interests and they also invite you if you are interested in actually giving up. How can the state allow itself to operate a prestigious playground within a protected area with state money, this answer is probably only known to you. And yet, golf belongs to Lipico. I'm not gonna say it doesn't belong in Lipico, and Lipica as a brand is actually very recognizable in the world, but not in this place. If you've already defended this thesis, you could have done it somewhere else. For example, at the left edge of the road to Sežana, where the golf course is finished, where the trees, of course with a slightly larger insert, and the protected area would remain protected. Look at why I personally resent what you're doing. I resent this because: firstly, you are spending state money to provide partial interests to Mr Brejc, the President of the Government and some of the Februarys, you are working in Kras in short. On the other hand, do not allow Lipica's brand, which is recognizable in the world, to become a sustainable guarantee for development in this place. There we have real-socialist concrete sculptures, which, although Lipica is known to all rich people, no one comes there because she has nowhere to sleep and has nothing to eat, in fact she can only marvel at beautiful horses, which are not as neglected as you say, and not because of your thanks. Last year, I appealed to you five times with an intervention letter to pay Lipica 253 million, given what the government has accepted. The government has taken this decision! And what happened? With a seven-month delay, you told Lipica when you agreed on how you would crack that money inside the ministries, and you paid Lipica off. Now, you tell me, Mr. Secretary, how can we tell horses that there is no money for oats? And that's what happens every year. This year's story will be the same if you're so nonchalant until Lipica. Of course, when we talk about Lipica being a cultural pearl and being proud, I can tell you that we, the Primors, recognize that Lipica is a disgrace, a national disgrace, for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and also for you, a respected minister. You were in Lipica once, even when it was a celebration. I don't remember you coming back again. Perhaps you've come to have some tea there, like most Italian tourists who come there to make a toast. Yeah, the slippers are roasting there. Now, in the fall of winter, you can see the retired from the Czech Republic and from the former eastern part of Germany, when they come there to start tourism, eat one sandwich, and maybe drink some cappuccino, and that's all. And when we talk about the Lipica Act, there's no mention of horses in the Lipica Act. Yet before you were full of words about the horse - that the horse was neglected, that he was inadequately protected, that he should not be cared for. That there was a degeneration hole, which we know ourselves, in the breeding of horses. For today it is stopped, even at our request, the sale of genetic material and the sale of the noble part of the flock, but what is done is done, this damage is done, and we will not fill this decade. When we passed the Lipica Act, the power from your mouth was to hear there were too many horses in Lipica. Please! That's what the minister says! You probably won't remember because you usually like to forget these things, but you said that. But if we're talking about the RTV Act, you know, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to focus here on what I've asked you ten times, and I haven't received an answer yet. Why do you allow national television, national RTV, to travel to Slovenians through a regional studio? The Italian programme is 70% in the dose of the programming scheme and is almost 100% in Italian. And this program is paid by all of us who are paying RTV subscribers. It is seen both in the Maribor region and in Primorsk, so it covers even Slovenia. And we cannot agree that everyone would be satisfied by law - that when you get a free film from Berlusconi, it gives you free, that this film, which is synchronized in Italian, has Slovenian subtitles below. That's all we're asking. On the other hand, when the Slovenian-speaking programme is that we can also subtitle the matter with Italian subtitles, if we are talking about bilingual television, the bilingual television programme via the national programme. This is happening, say, with the Hungarian program, when we look at Mostovi-Hidak, this is happening, say, with the Austrian programming scheme, when we are included in the national RTV program, and for RTV Koper it is not possible to do this. And another injustice that you don't want to correct is that you're inadequately dividing the money that's allocated inside that billion that would essentially guarantee funding for regional RTV programs. Again coming to the list of some you prefer, and you ignore others. There has been a lot of talk about the fact that now that there will be a new marriage, within this billion there will be justice for all. Neither did you fully comply with the previous law for two years, 700 million were on these two items, and I think the two items were previously open and more than half remained undistributed. I'm afraid because there were no invitations to tender, but you're going to put all the invitations out. And it is here that the curvature of the word, which is intended especially for the inhabitants of the region, because you have no control in this area, is the only control of the money you give in drops. And look, I will protest in front of the entire Slovenian public, there was an explicit ban on advertising on the Primorski news or too many appearances of Friend, too many appearances of Pavlich, too many appearances of Pečanov, too many appearances, in short, the left part. And what happened? For more than 6 months it has been since you have a new editorial policy there, which you will go look at the critics, and you will see; there is no report of what is happening here, although some of us are local patriots and we only want to ensure development in your place. And believe me, we would also like to do this in a constructive way, and the government part is preventing us from doing so. Even those suggestions that come in positive, first look at the addressee, who put it together, and if this is the opposition, throw it in the basket immediately. This is happening, this is a fact. All laws are over-voted and almost all laws are fast-track, there is almost no law to be adopted in a regular procedure. And you are the recorders of the Constitutional Court saying that you have the most adopted laws in this National Assembly, which are inconsistent with the Constitution, and you don't care at all. I'm talking about the whole government. I believe that today, throwing beans against the wall and that you will end up triumphing, laughing, perhaps drinking a glass of foam because you will stay because it is so arranged, even in fact those who have something to remind you of your work are more wisely silent and silent. But, but let's leave this behind for you which will remain - work or work - let's leave time for it to show. So far, she's been missing, and there's a lot of marital violations. And if you had nothing to do with it, it would be right to ask yourself if you really did what you said in oath. If you remember those words at the time of your signature, it would be very nice for you to analyze them. I believe you forget something more than once, but you shouldn't. We should not forget what you then said out loud and signed under it. Dear Minister, you may continue to avoid answering the question raised, turning your words into favors and accusing others of being liars, but most of the people who look at us also judge. And I'm afraid you won't be - as someone mentioned before me, I think Mr. Gaber - had some strange insight at the end of your term. Because I believe that as protected as you are, you will endure until the end of your term.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Juban has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings, Mr. Minister, colleagues, colleagues - those you insist on. I would start like this: we are now in direct transmission to all citizens of Slovenia, I think even on the 1st programme, and when they look at us, I would ask you, Mr Minister, if only to repeat a few more times, that the contribution to RTV is still the same and that even the subscription to RTV is falling, that citizens hear it or that you convince them that it is true. The second thing I'd like to say is maybe a little bit of a complement to my colleagues, first of all what's said about Lipica and the state before and now. It is true that the situation was not good before and that there was a lot to be done, but unlike the previous management and funding of Lipica, because I recall far back what was happening, the previous Government or previous governments invested quite a lot of money in Lipica, after a few hundred million each year, but in Lipico, not in the tourism of Lipica and the interests of perhaps government officials. What my friend Friend used to say is that I don't repeat it because we're going to be running out of time. On this occasion, I must say something that, from a certain point of view, has been burdening me for quite some time, and my colleagues have also asked you and your Minister's colleague the Beast a question. According to your predecessor, I think that at the time, Minister Školč, you inherited the management right of an interesting beautiful facility in Maribor, where the agricultural institution houses. And from this administrative right came the property that you gave to your ministerial colleague the Beast, who, without exchange, without ransom, without denationalisation, had not been entitled to any institution that did not pay the matter. But the problem would not be as a problem of dimensions, when the people who live in this facility have 90 of them on the table of the prosecution's decision that they have to move out of the facility and have nowhere to go. These are college, university-educated personnel who are assigned to the court on the road tomorrow and thanks to these two ministries or this government. In the meantime, you tell us that we may be too specific about the developments produced by the new law on RTV and the media. Perhaps we can be more persuasive or more sensitive when the stories of this new national or, say, write national televisions on our skin. I find it embarrassing to produce these things in public because we did not come here because of our interests, but especially to represent them, but let this be just as an example of what state television is already doing in terms of also discrediting political opponents. We have had the opportunity to monitor through this television the story that the country has offered a Member land to buy this land and that it has sold it dearly. In a very short period of time, it turns out that this is not true, but it may be irrelevant to this point. When the journalist's co-author of this contribution shivered so little between the ribs and said: listen, this thing doesn't drink water, it's not true. Do you know what the answer was? "What can I do if I get the thing on the plate?" It means that a kitchen has been formed somewhere, and through this system is also concerned about discrediting political opponents. Maybe more generous funding from the media fund. Colleagues have warned what is happening, that this is some sort of sieve, that there are some guidelines, although you claim that this is all fair and right and that it is professional here. If you fly over, it may have happened that one cut is geographical, regional, or otherwise. What's going on? Half the funds, I don't know, come from some number of media in some region to a house that is most favored by the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Here you're wondering if this media fund really works, like it's supposed to, or if there's something wrong here. In the end - this may not be direct, Mr Minister, to you - when a coalition colleague from the People's Party enthusiastically defended the ministry and RTV, etc., there was much talk about the last event concerning Vida Petrovčič. This was a journalist who was always critical of every government, but we must find that she was always tolerant of the Slovenian People's Party from Marijan Podobnik onward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! For the first time since we have an independent and independent state, it has been the first time that an interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister for Culture has been introduced. Of course, I would choose different priorities, otherwise it is the opposition's task to critically monitor the work of all the departments, including cultural ones. If developments in the country continue in this direction, as we have seen today, we can also expect interpretation of the work of the Government before the end of the term. In the Coalition Treaty, the Government stated that the cultural situation should not deteriorate and therefore no cultural activity should go back. The coalition will also keep at least a share of the budget, and they have also written down. This was also said by the President of the Government at the presentation last year of budgetary documents for 2006 and 2007 in the National Assembly, where he pointed out that the share of the budget for culture remained at about the same level as in 2005, which is about 2%. This year, however, he said on the same occasion that he would increase expenditure on certain cultural activities which the Government considers not to be an unnecessary cost but as part of efforts to increase general prosperity in Slovenia. It is therefore undeniable that the Government has set rather ambitious objectives in the area of financing cultural activities, that is to say, to preserve the status achieved, which we are not satisfied with, and does not follow the objectives set out in the National Programme for Culture 2004-2007. This is also contrary to another fundamental objective of the coalition, which is intended to ensure favourable conditions for cultural growth and to strengthen national and European identity. This is also demonstrated by the data on the structure of the funds for culture in gross domestic product and the state budget. The share of the Ministry of Culture's assets in gross domestic product has stagnated since 1996. The lowest share of 0.499% will be reached in 2008. There is nothing better than the share of cultural resources compared to the entire state budget. Of the 2.5% in 1996, it fell below 2% for the first time in 2005. For 2006, it is 1.93%, for 2007 it is 2.07%, and in 2008 it again falls below 2%, at 1.99. The growth index of the budget of the Ministry of Culture is also lower than other resources. In 2005, budget expenditure increased by 11% and only 2.5% of the Ministry of Culture's resources. In 2006, the budget expenditure growth index was 107 and was aligned with resources for the Ministry of Culture. In 2007, funding for the Ministry of Culture is expected to grow faster than budget expenditure, and in 2008 the picture will turn around again, as budgetary expenditure will increase by 4.4%, while resources for the Ministry of Culture will remain almost at the same level as in 2007. This growth index is not encouraging. This also means that the wages of cultural workers have not yet been harmonised compared with those of education. Net salaries of employees with university education in the culture of pay in education are lagging behind for more than 10,000 tolars. This can be provided by employees in public institutions in the field of artistic creation, libraries, archives and museums. So a librarian or librarian in the school library gets about 105 thousand tolars a higher net salary than employees in the same job, with the same education in the cultural institution. The budget for culture within the mandate of this Government does not fully follow the items of the National Programme for Culture. In the National Programme for 2006 and 2007, cultural tolar items are taken into account in the amount set out in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. The relief situation for the Minister is merely that the Cultural Tolar Act has not been fully implemented since its adoption in 1998. In 2004, we adopted the national programme by consensus in the National Assembly, which is why it is binding on the Government and the National Assembly and would require more consistency in the implementation. The Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, which is the basis for the adoption of the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture, requires the Government to report annually on its implementation to the National Assembly; we have heard about this today. Unfortunately, we have only considered this report on the working body, and given the legal norm with enormous delays, but only to adopt the opposition's proposal and consider an important document for Slovenian culture at the plenary session of the National Assembly. During these two years, the Ministry of Culture and Government dealt mainly with the media. In the first place with the Public Institute of Radiotelevision Slovenia, with Lipica and golf - we have also heard this today - much less with culture in the true sense of this word. At a presentation in the National Assembly two years ago, I found that Dr Vasko Simoniti would be mainly Minister of Media and Less Minister of Culture, although among the priorities according to the words of the President of the Government, there would be reconstruction of cultural monuments, librarianism, books, films and support for creativity. If heritage conservation funds are increased at the expense of European funds, which is commendable and in the area of creativity, artistic programmes, audiovisual culture, film, librarying, publishing and fan culture are reversed. I would like to pay more attention to the first priority that we have written in the national programme, which is the concern for Slovenian language, its use and its development. Here I am referring to the promotion of the development of Slovenian language in all segments of Slovenian society. With Slovenia's entry into the European Union, the issue of Slovenian language has become even more important. In addition, it would significantly increase the share of the implementation of the Cultural Tolar Act in the field of investment in public institutions, cultural heritage, librarianism, amateur culture and cultural networks and promote more film creativity. At the same time, I think it would be necessary to stop the trend in the wages of cultural workers as soon as possible and to align them with the salaries of the school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! So, Mr. Minister, I objectively believe that some other minister would probably have earned an interpellation before you, regardless of whether you're the first to be interpelled. However, I must say at the same time that I am convinced that many of the claims written in the interpretation that have been made today hold undeniably. Most of the words were about restricting media freedom, which is related to the amendment of certain laws that have led to television being state-owned and that the current government through state-owned companies has more or less become the most important Slovenian media. The situation, which is now, is of some concern to me, and probably to you, Mr. Minister. Here I hold in my hands only three cases that have accumulated in one day, which are related to media advertising activities and so on. First of all, I have a protest against yesterday's Pyramid Activ of Journalists of RTV Slovenia. Then a protest by radio journalists, who are also involved in solving the Roma problem, protesting that they were unable to report on the current events as they were in the past days when the Roma returned to their destination. I also have a contribution on censorship in Goriška, which speaks of a different situation, about the dissatisfaction of journalists with the work of some locals, we will say, officials. This case might coincide with the cases that were on the Coast, we know of cases related to the mayor of Coroner and the mayor of isolation. Why am I saying that? In one day it is obvious that much of journalism is unhappy with what is happening. But they're not just unhappy journalists. The viewership of RTV Slovenia falls as a central television house. The load of the central log of the work falls irrespective of the fact that it is handled by various advertisements, which are carried out by some by order, i.e. by order in particular. Financial problems are known in Primorske novices, where they do not reach realisation and some other media, which the current authorities have acquired. So, on the one hand, the dissatisfaction of journalists, on the other hand, the discontent of political officials, and on the third hand, the discontent of those who read or watch these media. The dissatisfaction of more or less of all, although you have always said that the programme will be better, that the opposition criticises because it is the opposition, but the most evaluators are indisputable viewers and readers and they also tell you theirs. Loads are dropping. Here "out of the last five" you draw some theory that you spoke when you actually said that the RTV contribution would decrease, but now I can find that it didn't shrink; and here you have to be precise, you could say that it was frozen because it wasn't growing, but you were saying that it would decrease. That's not true. Come in. You have a theory that the real decline is low because inflation is low. But if this government had not been successful in curbing inflation, the reduction would have been even greater - in any case you are right. It's just such convenient theories that there's no way they can contain some sort of professional judgment. It is therefore undeniable that something is going on in the dissatisfaction of everyone that the Champions League has also dropped out of the RTV programmes, as has been said, and we can go to Italy and Austria, where they have only state television, and Croatia, and we will see that everyone is playing this without talking about other programmes. Not to mention the case of the Let 3 group from Croatia, where Croatia is our national television, because, by the way, the right-wing HDZ coalition also mocked literally what Slovenians are not able to watch, and showed even a little more than she was willing to show Slovenian television. So, Mr Minister, I think that as far as regulating this area is concerned, it would appear to be possible to imagine and do something, perhaps even to step back, because it is obvious that the previous system was slightly better than this one. And that the vote on media power can eventually come back as a boomerang. A lot of words were said today around Kobilar Lipica. And since I come from places where this mare is at home and because of this problem, I would say, a matter that I am interested in to be resolved in the best possible way, I must also make my own contribution to this debate. In fact, I admit, Mr Minister, I have said this several times that everything since Lipica's backing in Lipica has been going down; even when LDS was the bearer of the ruling coalition. I have repeatedly said that it was the hostage of the coalition and it was the feud of the Slovenian People's Party and that the situation did not improve there. When the authorities changed, I also expected something to happen there, perhaps even accelerated. The director was replaced, the government came with a proposal to amend the law. We also had a very hot debate with Secretary of State Pirkoviceva, who was present at the National Assembly at the time. At the time, I was most hurt by the fact that the local community was completely excluded from the drafting of this law. I understood this change of law mainly as a desire to eliminate the dilemma of what belongs in Lipico and what doesn't. Despite warnings from the professional public, the government decided unquestionably to belong to Lipico. The amendments were also intended for this purpose. Whatever the case, I appreciate the government making at least one decision. Although there was then a secular addition to this law, in principle it was determined that the casino did not belong there, even though we all know that we cannot get it out quickly. And to comfort the professional public, the protected area has been added to an influential area three times larger, 1,000 hectares, without consulting the local community, which will bring us further problems. That's when I warned you about these things. Well, what do we have now, today? Today we have a law that's being held back. And if the law holds the constitutional judgment under your mandate, we'll have at least an extended golf course in Lipica, but if it doesn't hold the constitutional judgment, we'll have nothing. Well, there's absolutely no progress. Except that if the law lasts, we will have an influential area that will bring us new problems. Mr. Minister, you have listed what has been done in Lipica in this term. I don't object to the fact that you tried to do something, but everything that was done didn't make a move. You've listed quite a few of these measures. Most refer to projects and studies, but some are concrete. But I'm going to add something to these specifics. The Club Hotel is closed because it's not viable. August Černigo Gallery, the largest Slovenian constructivist, is closed, as it was before, except on rare occasions, and unscanned, with poorly described cultural heritage and so on. You mentioned that you cleaned some pastures that were actually healed in a work that wasn't meant to expand golf, and I think you added one zero to that. And you also mentioned that you reintroduced a program for children. Well, as for the children's program, I'll tell you, Mr. Minister, what this progress in Lipica looks like. When Mr Bozič was Director, there was also a programme for children in the form of pony horses. Then came another director who didn't change it, who lasted a short time. Then he came as the director of the former professional leader, Mr Rus, who decided on the strategy - and the world was happy to help him - to belong only to Lipico, and they sold these ponies to a private man. Now the new director you named came in, and they bought some horses back from this private. Great progress, all of you! So, Mr. Minister, what I'm trying to say is that we're going to have to do something more, something more decisive. You've tried, in particular, in one way or another to settle the golf course, that's now under a big question. Let me point out that a public survey was also carried out today, published among the local population, and that most opposes, of course, its credibility. Otherwise, I have to say that I put more on the professional public to make a decision. As far as the congregation is concerned, I have always stressed, decide on something, it is acceptable for us to go out if you decide that everything is going to be in there, and then take it out. Now it's nothing. He doesn't move in, he doesn't move out. This also affects the space and thus does not dominate this Lipica. Progress obviously, Mr. Secretary, is not. Although I would say, somehow after feeling that the coalition will defend you, you have half the mandate and at that time do something more for Lipica, and I wish you to successfully coordinate in providing funds for the monument to the defenders of the Western border, because you did not have a hearing in accepting the budget, in order to support one amendment, as was the case with the previous governments, even though they were ours, and we put the amendments through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello to you all. I give my word to the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u80	If you'll excuse me, there's been quite a few questions. Mr Parliamentary Friend spoke of Lipica, and probably Mr Tarčon, and there may be something to do with it. Here's the thing. Lipica's now got the impression that nothing's done or very little done. We believe that very much has been done in this short time and that the efforts of the new leadership, which also has support in the government, if you want, are great and that they also bear results. I've already figured it out in the beginning, now I don't know if it makes sense to repeat the same thing, but it's probably going to have to be read again today, maybe in a later hour, once again what's been done in Lipica. It was said that things had been neglected and that it was always necessary to obtain funds from the Government and that in 2005 253 million had been provided with great suffering, only after not knowing how many months. But the fact is that the government has provided these 253 million and has bridged those basic problems in this collective that has had major financial losses. Likewise, I must say, it has happened already in the previous Government, so in 2004, I will not speak sooner, but in 2004, the same Government with great anguish has actually accumulated only 100 million from reserves. So, it's not an obvious statement or a previous government, I mean, it's about the same as any government before problems. However, we in the government have decided to go into more fundamental changes, but this has also led to the law if you want or the novels of the law, and with the desire to really bring Lipica to the place she is going; so that she becomes one of Slovenia's leading tourist centers, and of course she is also recognized in Europe. This is a new director who is only a few months or five, six months, but very successful and informative. I also propose myself, the Director of the Desert wishes, truly, to come to visit Lipico and to show what has actually been done at this time. Of course, we cannot be satisfied with the fact that everything has been resolved. Of course not, it will probably not be for a long time, but progress is also visual, one would say, quite obvious, not only in a material sense. With regard to the RTV Act, Mr. Friend, why do I allow you to travel with foreign subtitles? I would only, in this case, recall these debates as well as my words, I do not deny them, but the RTV system is now in place, and the programming schemes are being adopted by the programming council, most of which, of course, was called the National Assembly. In addition, subtitles, this needs to be truly achieved through arrangements within this house, because according to the constitutional right of TV Koper there is no need to provide these subtitles, but I believe that it will be necessary to cooperate further and the RTV programming council with all its committees, including minority committees, to try to find a solution, but this is exclusively their work. Mr Juban also spoke about Lipica, and I do not see anything particularly new to say, but he spoke about the media fund and said that half of the funds should be given to a house that is favourable to the Government. Now I don't know exactly what he meant. In the case of programmes of particular importance, this was 550 million provided within the Ministry and this is in line with the Media Act, which states that approximately 3% of the RTV subscription received should cover these funds for these programmes of particular importance. I doubt that one house has thus received half of all the funds of 550 million. I have this list with me, like, you can look at it, I think it's already published on the website. It is very clear who won and who were rejected. This was done by the commission itself and its decisions. I spoke to this committee once, I admit it, but they only let me know what criteria they would use in this, we were talking very informally, so what criteria. I didn't have any comments, you can ask them, and they went to great lengths or I think they were trying to make an extreme effort to make this allocation of funds fair. I have to say, I don't know if one house got half the money. I don't think so. I've been through that list, too. I don't remember. The biggest item is, I think, I'm talking now, 58 or 62 million. While, by the way, in 2005 the Government provided the funds promised by the previous Government to these programmes of particular importance, 777 million - and distributed them in 2004 with two calls, we have already addressed this issue. I don't know. We'll just say the same thing again. In 2004, there were two invitations to tender, in April and, interestingly, in August. In the summer, and 773 million were distributed before the elections, but only 250 were paid by the Government, the remaining debt was taken over by the new Government and settled after that split, which was then promised and given in 2004. This has been done by the new Government and has also regulated by law under the new media law that this section of programmes of particular importance has been adequately and qualitatively resolved. I think that practically all Members were for this, at least that's how I remember. This is what Ambassador Juban was talking about. Mr Bevk then spoke about whether I understood him correctly that the funds for culture were shrinking. Indeed, they have fallen since 1996 when it was 2.5 and it came in 2004 when I took this lead, it was 1.92, then it came at 2.04 and in 2005 it remained at 2.04, then in 2006 it will be 2.01 and in 2007 it will be 2.07 in this "budget". For 2008, this index is 2 but we expect that in 2008 it will still be a little stronger, if not the other, not only with the rebalancing, but also possible with the Structural Funds. In relation to gross social income, this figure also increases. So in 2006 it's 0.82%, in 2007 it's 0.83%. About the cultural tolar when it was said that these funds were falling. When I took over the ministry, I still imagined it a little differently. I thought that these things would be easier in this regard, but I can say that the funds provided are many times, or at least since I am, I have seen that the funds provided for this, for the restoration of cultural monuments, or what belongs to the cultural tolar, then the congregation does not provide its share and it has already happened that we have returned the funds to the budget. However, I can say that the funds for 2002, 2003 amounted to 24%, in 2005 - 18%, this is my government's time, but more or less this has already been shaken, but well, there is no excuse. In 2006, this percentage of cultural tolar increased to 33%, and in 2007 the funds were provided by 48%, and I do not count those decimals. In 2008, cultural tolar increases to 47%. I think that's quite a achievement. However, I hope that we will succeed in preparing all the relevant materials, as necessary, for all those who will run or are known to run. It's about the cultural tolar. I think the Member of Parliament has also talked about salaries. True, these salaries are not in line. So cultural workers have about 10% lower wages than those in school. I think that these actions have already taken place, that they also know them in the voice and everywhere, that we have already prepared some materials, where we will certainly insist that the collective agreement attempts, achieves, does not attempt, achieve the equation of certain professions. But it's a problem. I think there are quality people at the Ministry who know this well because there are different nuances, different professions, different responsibilities, but our intention is certainly to make these things equal, and I also believe that we are on the right track. With regard to Mr Terchoon, who said that he had received three cases in one day, showing, of course, in a protest by journalists about the Pyramid, radio journalists regarding prevention of reporting on Roma issues. I don't have anything to add here. I hope that it saves this public institution, as it does, with editorial policy and with the colleagues they are treating, and in cooperation with the trade unions. Regarding the loads that fall on Del, these are known, we have already mentioned. These loads have been dropping for a long time. It is true that they have also decreased slightly in the last year, as far as they are informed, but I believe they are trying with new annexes, with new articles, at least as I see it, they are trying to improve this programme or the content. At least I think I like the officer better than he used to be. About Lipica. Mr. Tarchon said he's been going down since he was being held down. We know that the situation has steadily deteriorated. I do not think it is true that the local community has been completely excluded in relation to the last amendment of the law. It was coordinated with the congregation of Sežana. Whether the golf course belongs to Lipico or not, we believe that it is, as we have already said. It's about expanding the offer. One of the 50 measures also includes golf, which extends this offer. Now we can spread long and wide where this golf course will be, as we have said many times. So, this can continue to be debated, but I think there is much to be known about this. The Club Hotel is closed. I think it's some kind of, I don't know, a hotel this sticky, I don't know which one's closed. And I think he's been locked up before. I think that the plans are right with the Lipica Act to keep these services well and clearly separate; otherwise, this remains within the public office, not to be privatised, but to separate these services well. For before it happened that it was the means of the public establishment, namely, for the horseman, that it poured into the economy, which is complete nonsense and paradox. We're trying not to do that. About the kids' program, I think it's running. I've been to Lipica myself many times, and I've seen it. I thought it was nice, interesting, nice. There's a whole bunch of kids out there who want to. I think it's an entourage that in no way interferes with, and somehow substantively, symbolically distorts nothing in relation to noble lips. The 90 hectares of pasture were restored, not 9 hectares, but 90 acres, and the funds used were used for this, either for this or to the greatest extent, as I said in one of the previous answers. Mr. Tarchoon said he wanted us to make progress. I really think that there has been great progress in the last year, that there are major changes. Like I said, they're getting in touch with foreign masonry, international evaluators, so I believe we're on our way. Lipica is more orderly every day, and I really think it would be better than if we kept criticizing that we were going to see her, because she's not that far away. It's about a monument in Cer. In recent years, the Ministry of Culture has earmarked funds for the Cerje monument. There were arrangements and signatures to carry their share of the municipalities, including Kostanjevica-Miren and some others who signed. They didn't stick to it, but we also spent enough money on the monument last year. This year, however, it was agreed that the ministries of work, defence and culture will still gather additional resources to carry out this exercise, and there will also be an appropriate content in the Cere itself in this monument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, do you have a replica or on behalf of the proponents? Please, as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Minister Simonita, I don't understand. I don't understand how you get past the problem or take it to a different level, but when it's clear that in the case of Lipice, we're reading to you not that you want to get Lipica on horseback, that you want to improve the situation, but that you've introduced some procedure where you helped, with great effort, and with great rape, you've played the law, which the Constitutional Court has noticed. That in order to achieve what you admit you want to have a golf course there, you played professionally because you completely rejected it and used all the resources for that purpose - you forgave people. I already said today that, for other reasons, he had to leave his job in Kobilana Lipica as assistant professional leader of Kobilarna for cultural heritage. We know what happened in Novi Gorica at the Institute, and we also know how the expert committee of the Council of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage decided, where something was supposed to be voted, although no one knows what, but something that you liked then, however. We also know that the President of the Council of Experts has been informed that he is no longer a member of the Council overnight, and as your public servant who strongly opposed the spread of the golf course, he was not allowed to represent and represent the views of Lipica. In short, the script is more than transparent and what hurts, and what we've told you in interpolation is that it's not possible to rule in the way of raping space, tradition, laws and people, and this is what's happening to you. The Minister, you know, the entire professional public opposed and opposed this project, from the Association of Landscapers, Landscape Architects, to the Chamber of Architecture, from the International Association for Lipica. You have deaf ears for you, not for the president of the council of Kobilar Lipica, which you have set up. I cannot help but avoid his position once expressed that it would be good for people in Slovenia to understand if the Government decides something, public servants are obliged to consider how to make this decision, not how to act against it. That is what Mr Miha Brejc, European Member and President of the Council of Kobilarna Lipica, said. He's a threat. And nothing like what someone else said in Gabrovica in Kras 60 years ago, and it went like this, I quote: "It would be good if we slowly began to understand in Slovenia, if the Government decided something, it is for public servants to consider how to make this decision, but not how to deal with it." Mr Simonita, so to speak Brejč's words or words that we had heard 60 years earlier, said John Macek Matija when he addressed the former director of the Institute for the Protection and Scientific Study of Cultural Monuments. Why all this? Let me re-emphasize the thread, the thought and the message of our interpretation - for one purpose: to destroy, destroy, trample, to go with laws, with people, with expertise to the goal that is so simple and which we thought would not be feasible. Why are these strong efforts to build this golf course in the protected area - that you will no longer have to go to Mauritius or that there will be a golf course near the house where Mr Brejc resides as head of the world of Kobilarna and as one of your assistants to this architectural project. That's the problem. And the Minister of Culture must ask himself whether such material goods are before cultural goods. And that's what our interpretation asks, not only in this place, but also in others. And you need to think about it, your colleagues need to think about it. But we're worried, even though you think we're worried about our political destiny. No, if so, then this text and this obsession would not be here, after all not some particular pain. By the way, Mr. Secretary, that hotel that you say is sticky was once protected. With this law, you "retaliated" it was in the collection of a quota, which led people to receive 6 to 7 Slovenian and also foreign awards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I'm not going to go into awards and things like that, because every prize is nice to get, but of course, there's a lot of ways to know. But it doesn't matter. So, the castle or that hotel -- I was there once -- it's really terrible, well. But this is a purely personal observation. Users probably don't have the right to talk about certain surpluses, do they, even though they have to use them? Nor will I speak of public servants in this sense, to whom they are subordinate and to whom they do not and what they must do. This is the Law on Civil Servants, which, you know, I think the former Government has accepted, and it clearly states the role of the employee and his loyalty. That's not unusual. Comparisons with the gentleman or comrade Cat, I think they're a little out of place. But it is also in theory, you probably know the so-called "iron triangle", very well known as the executive power, the interest groups and others, say Parliament, in what relationship they are in and how it runs. This is an eternal problem of bureaucracy, which exists and is known throughout all developed countries. But nothing bad, just so that we don't needlessly lose words about what public servants have to do and what they don't do and, of course, politics and accountability from politics. As the Constitutional Court claims that we have played this, this Constitutional Court does not claim, we are waiting for the Constitutional Court's decision and the Constitutional Court's decision will certainly be respected. Regarding the profession, Mr Tavčar was in charge there, I think, of the cultural landscape and cultural heritage, but interestingly, it was at that time that the grassland areas had been cultivated, hundreds of tons of oats had been forgotten in various matters, the wooden fund had been completely neglected, reckless, unfinished restoration of the most representative monumental facility, the cleaning plant had been neglected. If we saw the club next to the hotel, we'd go down there and look, it's closed, too, because that neighborhood down there, it's awful, it's dumps, at least six, seven months ago, when I was there before Mr. Director took over, so it's scary, how it was all dirty and sporadic and imposed. A former representative facility was used as a mess hall, all of which would probably be the responsibility of a competent official or at least he knew about it, the silos were ignored, half failed. So, all of this has now been restored, repaired, cleaned, and has at least one appearance and shows some will, some belonging to make something of it. That's probably why someone was responsible. So, I imagine this official is, too. With regard to the profession, however, I do not believe that the whole professional public was against, I know quite a few experts who, of course, did not. In my ministry, Mrs Jelka Pirkovic, who is an art historian, was the director of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, she probably wrote a number of books and publications, and she is considered one of the good experts in the field of cultural heritage, and she is able to judge other things about cultural heritage, including in this case Lipice. Mr Damjan Prelovšek is probably one of the greatest experts in the field of art history for a particular area and with such width or with such a tip, you know, there is also a huge backdrop for such a tip and he can say a lot. Mr Peskar, who now runs the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, is also an expert. All are doctors of science, that is, recognized and respected people, even in international circles, and I think it's premature that some group signatures we don't know, and some societies that we don't know how many members they have, and they are members of the society that neglected Lipica, today claim to be the top line. No, they're not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We're going back to the list of reported discussers and I give the word mags. Savoy.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Secretary with a co-worker! My question to you in this case is that of the local media. Local media are also under the domain of your field of work, and when we talked about the new law and about it, there were many words and many speeches about the so-called plurality of the media. The local elections are over, and I read in one of the announcements today that interpellation was primarily a pre-election story. Now I am interested in how you assess whether local media have played this role, that this plurality has been ensured that all candidates and candidates had the same opportunity, especially programme presentations, and then themselves. You have some information on how these local media, both written and radio or television, have ensured that this equality between candidates between political options has indeed been such that we have complied with these democratic values. In order to make it easier for you to work, I help you with a few examples that I know more closely, a local newspaper from the middle from which I come is also included in the record of public newspapers maintained by the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Slovenia under a certain order number. I don't know if you'll tell me if one of the criteria of plurality is that, say, the current mayor in a municipal newspaper appears in 42 pictures. In the middle of which I come from, we recorded this media record in the last week before the elections. Earlier, the number of images of current authorities moved there somewhere between 25 and 35, in the last week before the elections 42 color photographs, the opposite option for the second round of course in two black and white photographs. I was wondering if you'd consider that appropriate. Then the question ahead, it seems normal to you that in some local newspaper the list and the parties cannot present their programmes, that even after the first round of elections has passed, only one political option will appear in this bulletin. There was no room for a certain political option. If we go to media hygiene, it seems normal for you to say that the mayor of a local community also performs the role and the task of assistant editor responsible in a local newspaper. Does any other legislation apply to local media? Does the right to remedy all those affected also apply in local media? And let's say if we go to another medium, let's say radio medium, if you ever felt the need to be the services provided by these local media for all of Slovenia at about the same price level at the time of the election campaign. I have met with a case that as a mayoral candidate I have been able to present myself at free confrontations in many radio houses and also in a number of written media, and free of charge. For example, in some municipalities a very high price was set as a criterion for the presentation of the schedules or customers, for example for a 15-minute presentation of as much as 68,000 plus 20% of VAT, of course, while in these 15 minutes there is room for two mandatory musical wishes. It seems to me that a number of lists, which are not parties and do not have money, mean enriching this Slovenia, enriching electoral and pre-election time, so that it is necessary to give everyone the opportunity to present under the same conditions, because these means, which I have mentioned to you and are only a small fraction of this campaign, are simple means, which many parties, and even fewer, are unable to do so. And that's why I think it's very positive, and it's okay if, in the future, as Minister, you're committed to making these things a little bit more balanced at the local level and a little bit more orderly. And, of course, the right to correction, could give you an example of the media who read the message from the Slovenian news in the reports, and then in the propaganda ads just every 20 minutes, when the right to correction was required of the victims, after five days of broadcasting this propaganda ad was really published. But look, it was published on the day of the memorial of the dead at 2:30 p.m., when most people are at the cemetery, once alone. Please, in the future, in order to avoid such undemocraticities, we avoid irregularities to consider how this correction could be made better. For if someone with a lie has been attacked 10 times, then it would be right that the medium that publishes this, and if it turns out that this is, of course, a lie, a lie, a correction also publishes in the same way and in the same number. Or is it expected of someone who is muddy to listen to 24 hours a day radio program and every 20 minutes when he has been muddy, reacting and demanding this correction, which is difficult. Because certain media are looking at the program ahead, spreading their message. Of course, there is no one there who may be affected to turn around and demand correction when someone asks for correction during the evening or during the night. So much for these stories. The local media could still be talked about, but I feel it is a shame to waste all the time, our time, especially the time of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in front of television screens. And even though I'm still a veterinarian by profession and education, I'm wondering, "How did you get a message from the coastal public today that almost 70% of the people wanted golf to spread outside the Lipice area?" I do not oppose additional activities, because tourism without a certain upgrade cannot survive in any way, but I think that you should focus your activity on an area that is not protected as a cultural monument. There's no growing any less, there's no less garbage there. The cultural landscape of Lipica should, of course, be preserved, is a unique monument known to us, in Europe and in the world mainly because of the lipican, because of this noble Imperial horse, not because of golf. Another interesting one from this area. I also have an article on e-mail that Slovenian bovines are for democratic change to RTV Slovenia and it reads at the end: "The Slovenian public has not had the opportunity to learn the real picture of Slovenian agriculture so far." People were presented by the central media as a privileged Slovenian farmer. I don't think it's that far. I think, however, that although we have a new Law on RTV Slovenia, the problems of Slovenian agriculture and the Slovenian countryside are not presented any better. What do you think of these statements that could be improved and upgraded for the good of these groups? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. I give my word to Mrs. Jeraeva.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. According to many of the predecessors, I do not know whether an intervention against the Director-General of RTV or anyone else has been filed. The eyewitnesses, which we have been listening to for several hours, are mainly concerned with the situation in the public institution of RTV Slovenia and I do not know if we are in the right meeting and in the right building. More than half the questions raised and the Minister's dilemmas cannot be answered, but only the first person to answer television can answer. A good part of the readings recorded in the interpretation is related to the operation of RTV, so only a few things. The Republic of Slovenia is the founder of the public institution on RTV Slovenia and by law it is the responsibility of the Ministry to regulate all those formal bases so that the institution can operate. In the meantime, the draft law on RTV, which the minister had done, had been implemented and therefore had been confirmed by the majority of the population in the referendum. There's probably nothing to argue with. Every day you give us bad mathematical knowledge and tell us how much there are two and two and how much there is 50%, how much more; I guess we know what the result of the referendum was. This provided a basis for regulating the situation in the public office and, as it is said, was confirmed by audiences and viewers at the referendum. It is the responsibility of the founder, which in this case is the Republic of Slovenia, to ensure institutional autonomy and editorial independence of RTV Slovenia. In part, it also provides funds and, for the most part, it is financed by contributions made by audiences and viewers. Everything else, the business and management of the institution and the design of the programme, is a matter of the institution and its authorities, which are independent and independent. Article 42 of the Statute of RTV states: "The Director-General organises and manages RTV Slovenia and is responsible for the business and programme management of the institution" and so on. The functions of the Programme Council are listed in Article 12 of the Statute of the Public Institute. Among them, to address the implementation of the adopted programming design and to take appropriate measures if the programming design is not implemented. In your interpretation, it is clear that the President of the Programme Council, Dr. Stane Grand, has already gone to a meeting of the Council to analyse specific cases. Every viewer has the right and can say what he disagrees with, and I don't know what the problem is that the President of the Programme Council, or probably the first person to make comments, would not be called the Programme Council, and the name of that body was not created by the new RTV Act, but was already in the previous law. Mrs Širca then stated in her opening explanation of the interpretation concerning RTV Slovenia that new personnel, including from Democracy, were coming, from the magazine Ali and Radio Ognjište. I don't see any problem here or what the problem is - whether journalists and intellectuals from the magazines Ali and Democracy and Radio Fireplace are not qualified to be editors to say anything and write anything. As we witnessed yesterday, only teachers can appreciate a good future director, obviously only those in journalism that you say they know, do, but not everyone else. Not all journalists have come out of the same and only college that is currently educating journalists in Slovenia, or are, in your opinion, not working in the right media, on the right newspaper, on the right radio. Perhaps we could say something here about obedience, such as Radio Fire, which, according to the national survey carried out by Cati, comes fourth in listening and is followed by many other radio stations. Well, there's probably nothing wrong with the press on Radio Fireplace if people listen to them, or maybe there's something wrong with the audience, in your opinion. And apparently only those who are members of the Liberal Academy and Peace Institute, Forum 21, are reasonable in Slovenia, and not members of all other intellectual and other associations. Not even those who have played a key role in the democratisation stages of the former country and have made an important contribution to the independence of Slovenia. You also wrote in the interpolation: "The question arises as to the adequacy of the programme's implementation with re-enactments from the early 1990s, which in your opinion go beyond the mark of independence." And that's what you're saying in the year we celebrate 15 years of the independent state and when, because of your school policy, our children and young people don't know much about events 15 years ago, about events that happen to the nation possibly once in history, but some never happen. For me, it was quite welcome to repeat information shows in which we were able to monitor the reactions of activities and the words of active politicians today who advocated the idea that we would be difficult to survive in a single country. We have refreshed the memory of events that need to be remembered. And today, some of these politicians live quite well and perhaps even better than those who then advocated independence and were willing to give their lives for it. Even events after independence, international recognition, the establishment of some democratic standards are certainly interesting and cannot be so controversial that we could see them again this year. If I go back to the starting point. All who come from your kind are intellectuals, intellectuals and experts, while all others are politicians, politically motivated and in the service of the current authorities. I can't accept this because I don't believe it's true. The film Fahrenheit was mentioned, which was played, although you are aware that it was not, or that it was not, within a certain period of time. Also, another documentary was not once, or almost would not have been, a play that showed another truth than the one you imposed on us for decades, about events that have affected the Slovenian people and divided the Slovenians significantly. And then you didn't intercede against the Minister of Culture, and I think she was the Minister at the time, because it's probably not the Minister's responsibility, it's the Public Television's leadership. And another clue you're making in the interpolation. We continue to stress the importance of Lipica and Lipica, and from the youngest to the oldest, we like to boast that Slovenia is the homeland of this beautiful horse of Lipica, but it will be the fact that Lipica has gone back in recent decades. You passed the law on Kobilirana Lipica, which was partially implemented, but in most cases not, but did not bring a significantly improved state. There has been a lot of talk about what needs to be done, and quickly, on the other hand, many experts have been searching for solutions for years and decades, and apparently nothing clever has been found. Looks like we don't even know what to do with Lipica, what we want with Lipica. A slightly more serious approach has been shown by the current Government and the Ministry of Culture, and this is obvious for some problems because things are improving and changing for the better. And that's what the proponents read to him on nine pages if we also include personnel data. If the cadre was so good, why were there no results, why did Lipica keep dealing with debts, and rare visitors were disappointed with the offer or even better - over not offering. They should have been the same people who had been in Lipica for years and years, but there were no results, so they stayed there. Then where would you look for responsibility? Once again, it would be the minister's fault if he wanted to do something and did something, but even more so would he be guilty if he did nothing and kept the situation that obviously suited someone and some. In Lipica, we would still be dealing with debts, irregular situations, instead of being beautiful, orderly, successful and interesting. A lip that the Slovenians would be proud of! Interpellation with all the signs that fly across the board, along with the Minister-General of RTV, the Director-General of RTV, some journalists, presidents, current and former officials, is not at all focused on what they want to achieve and what you have probably invested, but on how to mutilate everyone and everyone who thinks with his head in Slovenia and does not come out of the circle of your intellectuals. That's why I'm not going to support the interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President, distinguished representative of the government, colleague and colleague! I, too, was a little confused at the beginning of this meeting when I listened to the position of the SDS Group of Members, as did my colleague Jerajev, because I simply did not know whether Mr Grims really understood the interpretation because it was not directed against him, but against Minister Simoniti. Then I adjusted a little bit, so I said, but maybe Minister Simonita has two last names, Simonita Grimes, but then somehow the thing got away and we knew what we were dealing with. And that's why I'm going to focus in my debate on one thing, and on Lipica, a little bit from the other point of view. But in the beginning, I'd say it again. Those who are critical today to the opposition, it is good that you sometimes read a sentence or a magnetogram or listen to your current president of the SDS party and the Prime Minister of the Government, who, in the last interview against the Government in the previous term, initially forgot to everyone in this Chamber that every government, every minister, has no habit of boasting, and it would be insane to boast. This is why the opposition criticises and draws attention to errors and therefore takes the whole opposition back from this point of view. And I also suggest to you today that from this point of view, from this point of view, you also look at our discussions from this point of view. And when the minister had an oral introduction today, if you listened to him well in response to the interpretation, we could quickly find out that he himself confirmed today the hints that the government has been primarily cleaning barns thoroughly for the last two years, not only in Lipica, not only in the media houses, but everywhere where the hunters of the government or the state go. And it was also a beautiful sight during the later discussion. But I will begin in my debate there and in the same way as the Interpellian himself did, who began in the introduction of his defense. And I begin with the same words, in this place I must first express my amazement at the ignorance and ignorance of the acts of interpretation of both the minister and his entire team and the ignorance of some of the interpretations that have so far taken place. If at least a little bit had been searched for papers and some stenograms before they wrote down a judgment and accused the current interpellations of ignorance, they would have found that they had written a lot of nonsense on page 2 of the explanatory statement. In fact, the Minister wrote that, despite the fact that the drafters had violated the Rules of Procedure when they had also written a decision on his discharge in the proposal for interpretation, he would not object. If the Minister and his team were to have a behaviour on whether he would have asked, for example, the President of the Government, Mr Janša, for example, that the identical decision had been written by Mr Janša as the first to be signed in 1999 under an interpretation which was against the former Minister of Finance, Mr Gaspari, and that I read, "the two interlocutors proposed a conclusion: due to the illegal, unintended and unprofitable financing of public spending, due to the illegality and irregularity of the privatisation of state banks and the ownership of insurance companies, due to the illegal and illegal management of state assets, the management of harmful public finances policies and other irregularities established by Minister Mitjo Gaspari's discharge of the functions of the Minister of Finance". This is said not to be any plot, no news, no violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Applicants in this interpretation. The very beginning of the Minister's response to interpretation raises questions about the credibility of the following answers. It is also the very beginning of cynicism, saying that in the content of the interpretation it is only a collection of newspaper articles, that it is only a collection of political readings, all of which says that the interpreter was not interested in the content of the interpretation, although this lack of interest and, last but not least, the misunderstanding then based on the entire 50 pages. To move on to what I said, to Kobalna Lipica, a little bit from another point of view, not as some others have discussed today. To begin with, Minister, I would tell you that today I received an e-mail from this society, which you do not like, this is the International Association for Lipica, not to say that all experts are experts, but part of the experts are certainly in here, who are definitely rejecting all your flat, general and misleading claims at the last press conference, which you have repeated behind this microphone today regarding Lipica herself. Finally, I will ask you from this because they will not have the opportunity, even 10 questions on Lipica alone, but for me, of course, one of the undeniable, weak and politically-motivated achievements of the minister and of course the cultural ministry is undoubtedly the novelty of the Lipica Act, which we adopted in July. This is an illustrative example of clientism, which has a priority place in this government and is an illustrative example of the functioning of the current government at all levels, not just in this case. When decisions are made and taken elsewhere in the National Assembly, I will not say opposition, but most coalition parties are the majority who give these created ideas legitimacy and legality with their irrefutable, well-educated school class when voting. There have been some errors in the adoption of this Law on Lipica, which is why the constitutional complaint and the reaction of the Constitutional Court have also been made, which has temporarily delayed the enforcement of this Act. As we warned, there were many of us in the debate at the time of the adoption of this law, it was one of the inexcusable mistakes that the Ministry did not allow public opinion to be drawn up at all and that the professional public could not express its opinion at the time of creation, the creation of this law. This just confirms the obvious fact that it was true to exercise narrow interests and the method and manner of action, when profit and well-being make it possible for some individuals to do exactly everything; and since this interest was already repeatedly mentioned in the golf course today, it is necessary to say again. Golf is gone, golf is gone and golf is never gonna save Lipica. In his response to the interpolation, the Minister is still transforming and misleading the public. In this regard, four evidences. First evidence when it comes to misleading the public. The Minister is still deceiving when he states in his reply that it was necessary to adopt the law in view of the new European perspective and the investment of European money in Leipzig. Kobilena Lipica, the Government or the Ministry could still run for these funds on the basis of the current current law, proving that Minister Zver or the Ministry of Education and Sport is competing on the call for European funds for golf management, for pasture management, for planting trees, etc. It is true, however, that, after the current law, it has not been possible to spend the budget on golf, and now, after this novel, of course, this is possible, or otherwise, golf will be some kind of state-protocol golf. Once upon a time, in the near past we knew the state's hunting grounds, today's protocol facilities, but today we're going to meet the first golf course to be designed for that. Therefore, the Minister and the Ministry have unequivocally abused the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly when the Government has proposed that this law should be adopted on an urgent basis because it will otherwise not be possible to draw on European funds. Second proof. The Minister argues in his reply that the law should also be amended because the existing law allowed for the establishment of an economic company within a institution which could later privatise the work of the institution. That's just not true. The law did not have to be amended in order to establish an economic society. The Government’s already existing decision allowed for the establishment of an entity within the institution to carry out tourism and catering activities. It is true, however, that the previous law imposed on the State that it cared only for horses and cultural heritage and that for this purpose it was also possible to spend the money that the State invested in budgetary resources. The current novelties, if any, will also allow the country to take care of complementary activities with budgetary resources. And one of these complementary activities is undoubtedly golf. That's it, and that's the real story. Third proof. The cultural heritage experts who are at the Ministry and around the Minister have, on the basis of political pressure - this is my position - completely succumbed to narrow party interests, as the following example proves. In Ljubljana, this profession around the Ministry prevented the reconstruction of Plečnik Stadium beyond Bežigrad, and in Lipica, on the other hand, largely opened the door to commercialisation within the protected cultural area. A completely unusual and unacceptable move by the cultural administration - if you're not with us, you're against us and you have to leave. And today it has already been said who, because of a different professional opinion, had to leave. The fourth proof and this one is, you could say, the most important. By this law, the minister carried out some kind of seizure of territory in the territory of the municipality of Sežana, since the State allowed itself to take part in its administration without the cooperation and codecision of the congregation. And it is not only the property of the congregation, but also, above all, the property of the citizens. It is extremely unusual today that the National Assembly, most in this National Assembly, has set up a protective regime, an influential area that has not been fully defined. At the same time, neither the local community nor the landowners know what this protection regime means today and what restrictions they will have on their property. With this marriage, we have kind of loosened people up, and these people who are flattered don't know anything about it. These are stories from other times. This is a practice that is far from European practice, to which the Minister himself likes to speak so often. In the countries of the European Union, the protection of nature as a cultural heritage is not always and everywhere provided for without the cooperation of local communities. Finally, the local community will play an important role in competing for European Union funds. Finally, when I said earlier that I would ask these 10 questions, because it was so concrete that everything was cleaned, cleaned, changed in Lipica, and I will ask the Minister 10 questions on behalf of the International Association for Lipica. This is the first question - there is no horsepower representative in the Kobilarna world. Does this mean that the Minister for Culture, Dr. Vasko Simoniti, does not need him with the self-sufficiency of Dr. Miha Brejc. The second question - Director Matjaž Pust was recently appointed to this place, according to his own statements he has no idea about Lipica and the Lipicans. Is this a fact acceptable to the Minister of Culture? The third question - a lipican, a Imperial horse, is committed to an animal garden. Is this when everyone can admire him in his original environment, a business gesture, or a shameful embarrassment? Is it a new business move for these managers to place the Imperial horse on the market? Question five - does the Minister of Culture support a professional leader who said in a statement recently that private farming is more important than farming in Lipica? Sam's got his own cobillary, lipids, who he thinks are much better than lipics. Question six - v.d. the head coach is criminally charged for violating the competitive clause, due to the competition in the world Cup with his horse at the lipid cost. Is it true, Minister, that Kobalna Lipica employs young riders without proper qualifications? And the last question, Mr. Minister, are you aware of plans to let the training of horses and riders go to the Austrian coach and thus prove that Slovenia cannot take care of its horses? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u92	Thank you, Vice President. In fact, in some way I have already touched on the interpretations against Minister Simoniti in two of my questions, which I have been asking, one in 2005 and the other in September 2006. These are two questions which were related to the law on certain urgent investments in culture, which is what we call the Law on Cultural Tolar, but it was, of course, the puppet theatre in Maribor, which has already been the subject of readings and the response of the Minister. As the majority or many other Members I received from the Minister at the time, at least after my assessment of the lofty, arrogant response, I say my assessment, but I must say that in this assessment many Mariborians, the people around me, also the creators who have detected and been hurt and offended by the reply of the Minister in these two. He removed them, for the first time, in response to the fact that the Maribor puppet theatre is not a priority because Ljubljana's investment due to the EU presidency is a priority. That was one answer. The second answer is that they missed the train where they could get involved because they had been searching for a location for too long, and they had been conducting all the procedures for too long, which is true. However, it is also true that all these Ljubljana investments, which the Minister is talking about and giving them priority, have also been delayed, have also had the same opportunity to prepare documentation, to carry out all procedures so that they can be made available when this is possible under law. And by law, that's still possible. That is why, Mr Minister, you were hurting those who expected a more serious response with your answers then, not one that didn't actually say anything. You are later in my second question, or you are an investor, this is a puppet theatre, which is a institution that was really established by the Maribor City Municipality, but you know well that you pay the employees in this institution, so through the Ministry, you are also in the role of those institutions that have to take care of working conditions. But here you said, let this theater become a regional theatre once, to run for European funds, but here we will help a little, but we are a puppet theater, so I understood it, no longer interested, and obviously you are not interested, so your words, which you told your colleagues earlier, say about it. All of your decisions are tied to some events, some events. Since Ljubljana will be the capital of Europe, it is therefore necessary to support Ljubljana in these investments. I understand that, I agree, and that's the way it is. However, according to this logic, you may be in a few months when you decide on the European Capital of Culture, find out, but Maribor does not have a puppet theatre, so there can be no European cultural capital, Slovenian of course, and I am already asking you not to make and make a mistake so that even the role of Maribor should be taken seriously and I think that Maribor, with its cultural potential, with all its facilities, must, for the first time, run equally in this game, according to my opinion, even this game must be won, because it has been done by many countries, so that other cities in one country are declared to be in office or to be in force in this area, more than it is normal to get this status. Speaking of this investment, your answer here wasn't credible, it wasn't enough to satisfy. What kind of dialogue did you have with Mr Pivac, because it was said that it was sad, and that you will probably clear up or the media, I hope that they will get to the true truth, who lied in this story. You said today that he lied to Mr. Crossman. When we talk about this investment, some are aware, but some are not, so the country should participate with 800 million tolars in this investment. The investment is embedded in one very important part of Maribor, the noblest, oldest part of Maribor, Lent, which gets in place when it is gradually adjusted. As a result, this investment is also slightly more expensive, but the Municipality of Maribor has also planned to receive more funds and to calculate that it will also receive European funds. However, if the state does not then participate, if the state makes it impossible to intervene in such a place, which is of some interest, I hope that colleagues of yours along with you, cultural heritage, then this is already the answer that requires somewhere else the first conversation on the responsibility of these people. One more question arises to me in this investment. If you cannot finance 800 million tolars, how will this government, I hope that you will not rule too long, implement a resolution on the development of Slovenia by 2023, where you have some mega projects planned and resources actually very few real ones, so if I compare this with 800 million, how will these strong ambitions and these strong projects be realized in a so-called resolution. Mr Minister, another aspect of your attitude towards the culture of important goods I would like to mention. It was already mentioned in the Maribor Agricultural Institute, not as an institution, but as a building. It was said that she once belonged to the domain of the administration of your ministry because she has the status of cultural heritage because she has a special treatment, protection on your part. You seem to have unwittingly given up this facility, left it in the management and ownership of the Ministry of Education, which must live up to the promise made to Škofija Maribor, which she gave to the Škofia Gymnasium to build the Škofia High School and at the same time, so she expressed her wish to meet the needs of earlier agricultural, now biological high school. So this school is supposed to move into this house, which has this status, but it is actually unable to accept the number of high school students or students it actually has today. That means he has to take root in school. And not only do you go to school, you have to build up a foreigner who doesn't literally belong in this place. And if this is not your obligation to protect such a place to protect such a building, then the Ministry of Culture is obviously losing one resort or this resort is useless for someone else to achieve ambitions that are their own. Not to mention that when you or this institution or facility leave this school, there are various machinations to sign some lease contracts with which ownership is to come to another institution, but this is already the subject of someone else, for what authority to deal with these matters, not here in the National Assembly. Somehow, quite a few debaters spoke of arrogantness, or you first spoke of the arrogance and superiority of the applicants. That's how I understood it. I used to talk about your arrogance and your highness, and Mr Grims was happy to join. And that, Mr Minister, I do not speak to you as an opposition Member. I'm telling you this as a person, someone who is also moving around in a moving environment, and this general opinion about your arrogance, cynicalness, sublimeness and overblownness is actually true. And that's why I'm beginning to hesitate, but it wouldn't be wise to introduce a unit, a measure of this arrogance, cynicism, sublimeness, pompousness. I hesitate, but it would be called "en Grimes" or "one Simonity." I tend to be "en Grims" because he's convinced me more at this point, which is why I'm putting you in a different kind of unit. You were talking about a much better program. If it's a better programme for you to have almost a week of conversations with President Janša and some who should also say something, but not if the celebrations are being broadcast like on a running tape, more than at the time of totalitarian arrangements that you like to criticise, but they're already getting all of a similar iconography, so it doesn't seem to me that it's exactly what attracts viewers. I'm not saying no, but not every single thing and every way. If you're saying that Masses are the ones who brought new content into the news shows, I don't think anyone can pin it. However, if you are already doing this because there are colleagues from the SDS or NSIs on these mosques, do not impose these informational broadcasts on the Slovenian viewer, as it pays the subscription. If you want to impose this, make this subscription free of charge and we will be able to choose for ourselves whether we watch this or watch any other shows. The talk was about self-reliant journals. It creates an impression, and unfortunately for some, you will not and cannot deny that it is a matter of gradually building monuments to those who have stood in the first rows, to some very deserving, to most of them very well earned, but at this point it is not so old that it needs to be resuscitated, I think there is still enough time to do so. That you have terminated, or that yours, those whom you have appointed there or indirectly appointed to various authorities, have been removed from various institutions of the TV diary or transferred to another program. You cut off the show Under the headlights, where, in fact, different thinking experts or politicians were facing each other and so on. All of these are facts that are hard to contradict and we owe them to you, so that you may change your mind about it. One more thing I remembered when I listened to Mr Grimes share his lessons with some of the media who had not reported from the NATO meeting in Riga. I believe that maybe whoever didn't do it, I wasn't paying enough attention to it myself that day, or I wasn't monitoring it, and I can't assess it. However, I can assess his attitude towards one authority led by this National Assembly, which is a delegation to the NATO Assembly. Mr Grims was neither at the last assembly in Quebec nor at the last assembly in Paris, nor did he attend most of the meetings. At the same time, he is such a great listener to an institution, i.e. to Nate, and there he is competent, and there he should be with him, and there he should be representing positions and he is not. And so this impression by the Slovenian delegation does not make a good one. I illustrated this only because he spoke about how they reported or reported on NATO’s meeting in Riga. Mr Simonita, perhaps - perhaps yes, perhaps - you do not really realize how in some way you are doing with everything at the Ministry of Culture, directly or indirectly, affecting certain media. Earlier there was a talk about the distribution of funds for the media, the Fund for commission or whatever it is, so the fact is that there was more than 900 million resources available there and that you appointed one commission that, of course, decided on these funds. I will only remind you of two, three names, which, at least in my opinion, have a direct impact on certain procedures. But I can't say for sure. Mrs Žiličeva was an indisputable expert, I admit, an expert, but not for long from this producer, but mainly the closest co-worker on one Maribor commercial television, Mrs Danica Ozvaldič, a financier, once, not long from this, Director of Krekova Banka, and at the same time the third candidate on the list of candidates for Mayor of Maribor Gregor Pivc, which is the third on this list, and of course also on this commission. This Mr Pivec, director of the Maribor Hospital, who has also remained, is also a member of the RTV Programme Board. Either it doesn't smell like one or the other, or I don't think it's a coincidence that a team has to make sure that some of them get their hands on it. It is not likely that in this electoral story that is behind us, this RTV programme supports the list and Mr Pivc, who was a candidate for mayor, these two ladies, whom I spoke about, are also concerned that some of them receive funds. I cannot say, therefore, that this RTV Slovenia has received because of these links. There is a doubt, a suspicion exists, and the problem will contradict it, but perhaps you will prove it with something else. However, it will be difficult to prove that you do not allow all procedures to be carried out in this invitation to tender as they do in another part of your ministry, as is done in the Department of Art, as is done in the Department of Cultural Heritage, when an invitation to tender is issued in a manner such as that of public tendering must be published, so that the selection, the choice of work is made in a way as is done so that legal instruction is, of course, given to send decisions. There's no such thing once in this case, if it's done, I'll, of course, withdraw my words. Before that, I was talking about direct influence, and now I'm talking about indirect influence. I am not saying again that you will not misinterpret that this is all a matter of the Minister for Culture, but indirectly you are causing these policies to influence the impact that some cultures fall and fear their existence. Example. In this election campaign in Maribor, we had strong support from one of the media called Radio City, Mariborians have already renamed it Radio Pivec. Apparently, in this Radio City, all the participants who participated in this story with the mayor's candidate were concentrated over to mention Mediapolis. The company Mediapolis was established and was established by two members of the management or owner of the company Spem. This Mediapolis has purchased most of the advertising space and is becoming a major actor on this lease of advertising surfaces, but this same owner is also the owner of another company, which is mainly a parent company for most of the companies owned by the state. However, many of those administrations and supervisors, which are politically compatible, are also owned by the State. And when this is felt, when it is seen, this fear is passed on to some others, and so is the fear of the media, who are afraid that they will not get sponsors or that they will not get advertisers and that this fear is passed on to some journalists, who, for the first time, prefer not to write something themselves, which would be uncomfortable if they did, but if they do, there are real editors who censor an article or some text. And if you ask the journalists if there's any drums left at dinner, they'll say yes, there's a drum of censored articles that's getting fuller and fuller. And that's the fear that you didn't cause with your direct influence, but with the indirect influence that you're covering in the field, even the media feel, the journalists feel, and also those who are indirectly involved. You have caused another situation that some cultures, whether directors or even creators, are in a position to fear for their existence, to fear confrontation, to fear sometimes telling the whole truth. I only remember the pressures, once again in this electoral campaign, when you, not you, but some of the second and third ranks called on one of the rectors of the Maribor respected institution, the cultural ones to join Mr Pivc at one of the meetings on POP TV, otherwise there will be problems with obtaining sponsorship funds, problems with funding from the ministry. I say, you didn't say that, but some others said that, and that's because they actually feel strong enough and realize that they can scare a lot of people with these threats. You will have to imagine this, Mr Minister, when you act in the future, I do not believe that interpolation will succeed, because the coalition is too large, so you will be directing your actions to improve cultural policy, and for all the actions in this area that you are ultimately responsible for, despite the fact that we cannot attribute direct and personal guilt to you, but are objectively responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u93	Mr. Grimes has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u94	Thank you. I would really ask my colleagues from LDS to act with dignity to this National Assembly. Look, this interpolation really differs significantly from the interpolations we've been putting into the past mandates. For always, if you look back, we have also discussed some new documents, some arguments on which we then based our proposals. This interpolation, this happening today, who has watched it all the time, who has followed it consistently, has not shown one single new argument, nothing to which it would be justified at all what is written in the text of the interpolation. More than that, when you prove with credible documents that one of the claims in interpretation is evident and verifiablely unrealistic, it begins to repeat over time as if nothing had happened. In short, many repeated lies become the truth. A tactic that, to be fair, has been used by LDS for years and years. And so I'd like to ask you nicely if you don't have any new arguments, if you're ignoring even the authentic documents that we can show you, like I did at the beginning, and now I repeat, the case that I was talking about at the time, if you're ignoring all of this, even though these are public documents, they're accessible and verifiable to everyone, then at least don't insult people, people of God. Not because of us here, but because we are now being watched by Slovenians and Slovenians and imagine what the impression of the public is then about this institution, about Parliament, which is a fundamental institution of democracy, and we should, however, contribute to the public's reputation for the function it performs. Therefore, when you include examples of our conduct, at least tell the whole truth. Previously on "Nato"... The first thing that was said was wrong. I did not say that Nate was not reported, but I said that it was very unusual that some Romani family that day did not happen anything special, reports as the first news, and reports about Nate somewhere much later and also in a much shorter contribution. However, as regards my leadership of the commission or our delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, why I was unable to attend the last two. Because the meetings of this institution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia were extremely important. In particular, in the last case when the meeting was held in Canada.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u95	Mr. Grimes, three minutes have passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u96	there was an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, at which two budgets were adopted for the next two years. [[...]] That is why I have given this priority because I am responsible to our citizens and citizens and I am trying to take care of all of this to the best possible extent and to fulfil my constitutional duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you. Please those who replicate to try to stick to the limits of three minutes according to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u98	I would like to answer Mr Petek, and then I will also answer Mr Kumer, just to get the materials. Mr. Friday has reopened the question of the Puppet Theatre. I think we've made it clear before or that I've made it clear enough how it was. Now, if it's necessary to keep repeating ourselves, let's do it. So in the first Cultural Tolar Act there was also the Puppet Theatre, in addition to 2002, there were other buildings, including the Regional Museum, the Castle and you gave priority to this in front of the Puppet Theatre. And so came the realization of another building, also necessary in Maribor. As I have already said, you too, Mr Petek, despite the failure of the elections, are a man who has been a saint in the Municipality of Maribor for all eternity, Mayor Sovič was also two mandates, Mr Križman was, and if that will had been, we would have provided these adequate funds, and the ministry in the past could have done so peacefully. As has happened, I have already explained, there was no way for us to provide adequate funding for the puppet theatre this year. It seems right or wrong to me, in fact, that you are problematic and giving a comparison with Ljubljana. Ljubljana, I say, not because I am Ljubljana, but because I have also seen your beautiful city Maribor, which is beautifully decorated with this infrastructure, we have also helped something in the last year to further that has happened, with great pleasure, I think with all due care and I also think that it was absolutely necessary, and I do not want to talk about this in particular, which thing it is, but it seems to me that it was right. But I'd like you to admit, if you don't know, go see the Modern Gallery, the Opera and some other buildings that are also in this priority, even in the first part, including the Natural History Museum, which we're missing. There's not that much money. We've made up our minds or I've decided if you want to give an advantage to the Modern Gallery, Opera, this year, because these things have been taken so far. And I think that in Maribor of these main infrastructure issues in the cultural field it is true that there is still a Puppet Theatre missing. We have had a wish and we have warned you that they are also trying to obtain funds from European funds, if possible. But anyway, I said, if this option shows up, we're gonna go across the street. However, I must honestly say that the best prospects for the second year are not, but they may be in 2008. And please, I'm saying that before the elections, it got heated right in the pre-election period and played with the feelings of children and parents. As for the European Capitals of Culture, which is now trying to somehow trace it to give up on Maribor. This will also be a commission made up of people from Maribor, Ljubljana, Celje, people working on this in the economic, tourist, art and history environment. And they will also be members of the international commission, so I hope that we can avoid this campaign, so that there will be a decision that will be fair and fair, which will be the European cultural capital in 2012. With regard to the building that the Ministry of Culture has resigned to the Ministry of Education, more than has already been said at one of the last parliamentary meetings, where Minister Zver was also responsible, especially because the Ministry of Culture has given this building to the Ministry. I believe they will take care of those parameters that require cultural monumental protection, and I cannot be held responsible for other things. As far as the readings are concerned - and I think that, I don't know, I keep repeating it, it would be nice to avoid this, because then we will come up with some things when we can also happily argue in this House - so that I am cynical, sublime, arrogant and arrogant. I don't know if it's arrogant to warn you that in this year a beautiful book has come out talking about how people get carried away when someone comes back from another environment, after a regime has fallen, and metaphorically or in a transferred sense, they could transfer it to things like you say. I recommend you read this book. The title is Ignorance or in the original of Ignoranca, written by Milan Kundera.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Friday, I assume you have a replica. Please, Mr. Gulic. But I guess later on as a proponent? Okay, first of all, Mr. Friday, replica, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u100	It'll be short. The Minister would like to attach a very important role to me in the procedures for the realisation of this investment. I would just like to tell the Minister - and these are the facts - that I was only a saint in this mandate, which is now four years. And in this mandate, when I was a saint, Mr. Minister, we did find a solution to the puppet theater. The entire city council unanimously decided to go to Lenta's puppet theater. And this city council agreed to obtain a building permit and in 2005 a building permit was obtained. And ever since then, Mr Minister, all these debates, including my question of letters, have been going on, and that is why I am trying to come up with this answer. I asked this question strongly before the start of the elections, last year. But it is true that you have not actually done anything, and this second issue has happened in September of the month, but you will not resent it. But there is no such effect on such a question. After all, it is proof that Dr. Križman did not come to the city’s world despite his potential for this issue. There's no causal link here. As far as the book's concerned, it's not about me wanting to pass on just my opinion. I told you what some people think, and that's why I almost attributed this unit to you, so I attributed it to someone else. Don't worry about it, but maybe it's even a sign of politics that someone notices, just in these virtues that are like I described them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u101	Yes, I can, Mr. Minister, and then I'll give the motioners a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Look, about the puppet theater, it's been going on for a long time. As you know, the location has changed several times, there have been some improvisations about this, I will not say exactly whether since 1992 or 1994. At the time, you were all present, engaged, not knowing exactly where he would be. When you determined this location, it was even that the financial structure was not completed. An additional 120 million were requested for the restoration of cultural heritage, etc. It did not go as planned, but of course more money was required. I apologize for forgetting earlier, but as for all these influences on these media and electoral times, I don't know the details of these matters, I don't know them, and I don't pretend to be ignorant, but I don't know who's dependent on who, which media. But something has shown itself despite all the terrible influence they are talking about, it may also be to the MEP from Tržič, but something has proved that this is the control of the media you claim to be, this aggressive influence of power on these media, that it goes to only one level, and then it doesn't work if that's true what you're saying. Do you understand? There is a need to be a little careful and careful about these things. It's not all going the way you think, but now the state wants to hold everything in hand and I don't know what. I don't think it does, and that you are well aware of it, and that we all know that such things can only work to a certain extent, and to a certain degree and elections have also shown this.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Gulič has the floor on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the distinguished Minister! When a question was asked about what was worse, ignorance, or indifference, he answered that he did not know and that he did not care. That was his answer. I hope that your answer to my question, which is very specific, will not be so. You wanted us to expand the matter in the coalition, so we're gonna ask you a few more questions. I didn't mean to torpedo this ship, because it seems to me that it's just a rubber that's got enough sewing for it, but if that's what it wants, we'll ask. This year, the Ministry of Culture allocated over 11 million tolars from the conservation of cultural heritage for the purposes of the Fukular Association. This society, of course, is an outstanding religious movement that deals solely with religious activity and the heritage of special significance. According to a constitutional provision and, of course, after the interpretation of the Constitutional Court, such religious activities shall not be allowed to be financed. I would like to know what your answer will be to fund this society, which started in 1943 in Trent, Italy, according to Dr. Siet, a press representative of the Slovenian skostofa conference and is a purely ecumenical matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We'll continue with the list. It's Mr. Battelli's turn. He's quitting. Then, Mrs. Squire Tavsh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. I will take the words of Minister Simoniti quite seriously, and I will continue what is the beginning of the seduction. You know, Mr. Secretary, it's good to put it in front of your doorstep and then sweep it at a foreign threshold. These are words, this is an old Slovenian proverb that should cut to your heart. Why? I'll list three or two things. The first thing that ever touches you is the Maribor puppet theater. My distinguished fellow Member, Boštjan Zagorac, while still in the role of the City Council of Maribor, addressed to you four questions from your ministry regarding the construction of the puppet theatre in Maribor. You or your ministry have committed themselves, and despite the Cultural Tolar Act, you have broken that commitment. Today you're wondering why you broke it. Because the Maribor puppet theater was no longer the priority of this government. This is clearly black in white written in the answers to four Members' questions, always one and the same, always one and the same answers. Because Slovenia will preside over the European Union and because, despite the legal basis, despite your commitment, the priorities have moved from one end of Slovenia to the other end of Slovenia. And for your information, there is, of course, an observation about the media fund in the interpolation. Today we have heard a number of times, the biased composition of the Media Fund's distribution commission, which therefore means a biased distribution of funds. I asked you about the implementation and distribution of funds from the so-called media fund about the criteria. Today, Mr Simonita, you have replied that all Members were for the criteria for distribution or so-called media fund. You know, there's something about the media fund, and the other is the criteria that you said you were informed by the way. But under the regulation where the criteria are written, you are signed. How can you then say in this House that you were only informed of the criteria by the way? And it is not true that all Members were for this. This is what the regulation, the regulation adopted by the Government past the National Assembly, is talking about. And on the basis of this regulation, the honourable Minister, they did, and we could read it, because on your part I still did not receive the answer. On the basis of this regulation, a good billion Slovenian Tolars have actually been distributed in half of the Catholic media. I don't pretend at this point, but I read what the media wrote. I hope you don't get carried away. If you want, I'll tell you the numbers, it says black on white, much more successful were the Catholic media: Radio Ognjište received 25.49 million tolars, Ognjište Publishing 14.75 million, Family 7.7 million Slovenian tolars, and the Society for the Promotion of Human Friendly Use of Electronic Networks Vrnet, which takes care of the website of RKC.si 2.3 million Slovenian tolars. In short, together more than 50 million Slovenian Tolars, which is more than half of those funds that you promised, respected Minister, in the debate in the National Assembly, to be distributed for regional or local media, television, radio stations and also the newspaper. I hope you're not going to say I'm delusional when I'm reading specifics. And I'm sorry I didn't get them.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the applicants. Mr. Scholch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u108	Thank you very much. So in one piece, I'm going to go back to what the minister probably took a nap or slept through. He answered all those who asked him, but he did not answer that question about experts who wrote the Law on RTV and about the lies that he had spent his time telling these experts. Let me say it again. Mr Grims said today that he wrote this law in its entirety, that after coordination more than 90% of his text remained. I don't think Mr Grimes is an expert in geology. I admit it, it's hard to discuss with him, but for example, he called Dr. Rumhorst the one who lied fatly. Dr. Spihala, who is considered an authority in this area, said: "Part of the profession abuses its academic titles and the university they belong to, in order to give under cover of the profession ordinary political messages and prejudices. Such "experts", in the notes, probably does not have to involve the Government in the process of drafting a new law." Minister Simoniti has put all those who have come from the cathedral and, I will say, from the international professional public in this debate put an end to this discussion: "Those who have responded so far have only been able to say profanity and nothing else." So much for the culture of dialogue and political culture. The question remains about the culture that the Minister has when he is essentially misleading the universal Slovenian public about what kind of profession was supported by the law written by Mr Grims. If he's quoting Kundera and Ignorance, I don't know which part of Czech society is the ones that belong to them. Or from those who have returned, or from those who have not noticed that something has changed in the Czech Republic, if we have to discuss it. But the minister, the lie has short legs. So far, you haven't introduced the experts you've been talking about all along the campaign. They've come out on their own. Unfortunately, they don't have a reference in this area. There is a similar presentation at the next point that I will open, and these are questions related to the position of the book in Slovenia. Through various petitions and initiatives, the Slovenian Writers' Society, literature, publishers and many others managed to convince the National Assembly somehow that it was against the will of the Government to establish a special fund for the book. This special fund has several dedicated items. And this special fund is supposed to be autonomous, in a sense independent of the decisions of the ministers and ministers, I will say, direct co-workers and, of course, also of policy. The Minister has not established this fund, nor, as I hope, does he wish to establish it again. What he writes in his response report on interpolation is, czech, the deadline has not yet expired. The resolution shall apply until 2007. The Minister, all the documents that will have financial implications relating to 2007 have already been adopted and you have not foreseen this instrument, the book fund, in these documents. Have you overlooked this, or are you trying to deceive someone again, or is it also a lie that you're counting on that no one will drag you by your tongue? In your response to the impressions in the interpretation, you also say that you have implemented all of these instruments, which this fund foresees. And even more so that you have introduced new instruments. That's where you're talking about amending the mandatory copy law. But as a result of the mandatory copy law, libraries, especially libraries outside of Ljubljana or outside the NUK and the University of Maribor, are no longer required copies. A large number of books come due to your decision less in the regional study library. Of course, you can shake hands because you're all-powerful and because you don't think that we understand that 4 copies are less than 16 copies as before. I don't know who you're going to convince. And coalition mathematics, of course, allows you to vote 4 more than 16, I don't doubt that, and I expect that from you too, because otherwise a part of your self-image would have been conceived if you hadn't managed to convince the coalition that 4 is more than 16. Other numbers are more problematic. In all the discussions that we have had with you on the Committee on Culture, we have by no means been able to obtain data on how much money is collected from the books sold on the VAT bill. This information, but not accurate, some indirect, got from the Ministry of Finance. And what do these numbers say? The Ministry of Finance tells you what we've been telling you all along that they don't have this information, but they're using the Bureau of Statistics. The Statistical Office's estimate is that this money is raised over 3 billion. And what do you do in your response? You say that for the title of these five tasks envisaged by the Book Fund, a good billion tolars are spent. But when you want to justify that the fund is not needed, you say that there's still a difference in librarying, and you don't think we're going to see it. Mr. Secretary, they can look away from you when they see you in the coalition. It may be that officials at the Ministry are no longer willing to discuss numbers with you because they know that you are not prepared to discuss anything. But you can't expect us to nod when you're trying to trick us into showing that you've spent all your money on these five purposes. You didn't! Most of it is about buying books in libraries. These are other items and other projects. Mr. Minister, there is something in this answer that is not particularly worthy. Not to mention that there is, in fact, no serious information on this in the NKP Implementation Report, but merely a misleading assessment that this is being carried out to a greater extent than VAT collected per book. The numbers of the statistical office show that these five purposes are essentially less money and I'm just wondering how you're going to substantiate this claim that it's more money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes, he's got a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u110	Thank you. When Mr Školč quotes me, it would be nice if he also quoted the exact things he referred to, not just the person, so let me answer everything together so that I won't be too long. When I criticized a certain part of the political obvious engagement of the profession, this was precisely the case for the profession whose prominent representative stated at the first meeting on this issue on Television Slovenia: "that then the applicable Law on RTV Slovenia was apparently completely cut off by the LDS as a ruling party." And then he said, "There's no reason for this marriage to change anything." Then help yourself with such expertise if you can. That's it, Mr. Skull. When you put an individual's education to nothing, let me remind you that, of course, in addition to what you've been saying all the time, I've also completed a science master's degree at the same university as you, with an average of 9.9, which according to Dr. Ferfile's statement is the highest average anyone's ever reached on a postgraduate there. When you put my education in vain, you give your own because we graduated from the same college. That is why I can only tell you so much, your rudeness, Mr Školč, is only proportional to the stupidity of the words you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I am asking Members not to fight and they are trying to maintain some level of cultural debate. Mr. Skull, there's no replica on the replica. But you can have a word as a proponent. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u112	I'll be very brief. Mr Vice President, certain things are hidden in the language. When you speak, do not let the Members insult anyone, then you should say that the Member should take care of his word. I confess to Mr Grimes, and I never have a problem with his education. I also know he did a master's degree in the U.S. Senate Comparison with the State Council. But this topic also has nothing to do with the professional issues covered by the RTV Act. The debate is about which experts were the ones behind the preparation of the RTV Act. Mr. Grimes, these two subjects have nothing to do with this. But this controversy with Mr Grimes will end with some conclusion that a minister who has such a good friend as Mr Grimes cannot afford an enemy. And it seems that if he has such good friends, he will need neither the opposition nor the interpolation. He'll be buried by a minister in the shadows, Mr Grimes himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. Puksic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State. I will continue where my fellow Member, Mr Školč, has concluded that the Minister would not even need an interpretation. This is what I agree with my fellow Member of the School. Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, not in my opinion, but after the reaction of many in this Chamber, and even some opposition Members, they were surprised when the intervention was made to Dr Vask Simoniti. Otherwise, Minister, don't worry. Interpellation can be a good thing, because, as I recall in the last few months, you haven't been on a political barometer. And after today's debate on interpolation, I'm almost sure that next month you'll be on a political barometer, if not too high, at least somewhere in the last two places where you're here to exchange a city. I was once there myself, a little more space when I was in the opposition and I was allowed to come to the media, but now because the coalition controls this, I am not in the media anymore, and I no longer have a political influence on the media. In short, some things obviously don't go together. And I think that if someone has no influence on political media, then Vasko Simoniti is certainly one of those or our minister who has no influence. That is why, as the minister himself said before, the media, of course, operate in their own way, and so do things. As far as the many answers you have given to the interpolation are concerned, I think they are sufficiently reasoned, sufficiently clear, with the numbers defined. Maybe you'll put on some more, so you can back these things up, but I can say for sure that between 5% and 7% is definitely something more than nothing. So much so that I get to know myself in this area, and given the lifting or non-lifting of the subscription, it is clear that you have made this promise because, given the average wage, the subscription does not change for so long and so long. The response indicates how much about 5% would have been followed by inflation alone or close to 7% if it had followed the same increase as before. As far as the implementation of the Cultural Tolar Act is concerned. In fact, I remember that debate on the Cultural Tolar Act and it was already in this house, i.e. in Parliament, a lot of scruples or budgets will each year devote sufficient resources to the implementation of this law, what has been given to this law, and the analysis shows that this has not been provided by budgets, and it will only be around half of this budget in 2008 that will be allocated to the Cultural Tolar Act as it should be. As was the School Tolar Act, there are certainly laws that deserve our special attention and in all governments to implement them, just as laws have been passed, because otherwise they are just a letter on paper and have no content. I conclude this part with a specific issue, namely the implementation of this Financing Act or the Cultural Tolar. I would also like much more, I would like these funds to be on this budget item also because one of the most beautiful Slovenian Baroque castles, this is the Dornav Castle, but I could come in line for a thorough rehabilitation, not just for what was done. Thank God that at least this was done, however, so that you could get some content that would then be financed or from this title would also be maintained and worked. I can say that I have been in this Parliament for about ten years and I have already led all ministers and ministers to this most beautiful Slovenian Baroque castle. Also this Minister Vask Simoniti, right at the beginning of his takeover. However, I would like the intensity of resolving this problem to be found as soon as possible. I believe that the solution will also come to the puppet theatre in Maribor. It is true, however, that citizens and citizens, from which they have a direct transfer from this House of the National Assembly, can often also see here some puppet spectacle, not only by Members from Styria, but also from other parts of our beautiful homeland. And to conclude. Minister, my vote in favour of your release will not be done this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u115	Thank you very much. She signed up, and I'm going to give Mrs Shirka the first time I'm proposing. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Since we have opened up the subject of implementing the law on the so-called cultural tolar, and since it has already been said, the Minister is today, as well as in his reply, but also stressed that this law will be implemented in the future and will reach rates that have once been reached for some time and not in recent years. It was mentioned that they had not been achieved more than once because there was no willingness to cooperate and that the projects would have been prepared by the congregations. Good evening, Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Secretary of State! Ex, I'm sorry! That my colleague, Mr Puksic, is satisfied with the ministry's work is unequivocal and unequivocal and that he has tried to implement another project today is also an inevitable fact. However, let me say that it is successful because, after all, it has received twice as much funding for its cultural home in Desternik, once from the Minister's reserve, by the way, it is not so modest, but once from regular funding. In short, 9 plus 2.5 million builds up something, even once for new construction, once for repairing new construction, however it goes. So also Dorno's, I guess she'll go. But what's important, Mr. Secretary, is that you say that sometimes it's hard to negotiate with municipalities because they don't prepare a program. It was disastrous that in one project, which is a priority within the law on the so-called cultural tolar and within the resolution on the NKP, which, of course, does not have a legal nature for you, but is the highest legal document in the field of cultural policy, stands the title of the establishment of the museum of Slovenian film players in Divača. The municipality provided with the late mayor and its municipal council all the conditions, from the purchase of land to the preparation of the project, so that what was enshrined in the laws would, of course, also be realized and could run for funding from the Norwegian financial mechanism. Mr Minister, your ministry has not expressed its willingness and cooperation in this, which is likely to lead to these funds. I'm talking about priorities and something else. In your response to the interpolation, you say and admit that the resolution of the national programme on culture was indeed not ready enough quickly enough to delay with it, but you do not think that this is bad. What's worse is that you don't give the basic act, as already said, the status of marriage. This also allows you to adjust your priorities to life, as you say. You are adapting to this life so far as you do not take into account the fact that you are establishing a museum of Christianity in Slovenia, which is not in the national programme for culture, but in the draft programme for culture prepared by Mr Sheligo has not yet been adopted, but forget, for example, the establishment or preparation of the Museum of Contemporary Art, which is in the resolution, or the previously mentioned Museum of Film Players in Divača, which are just priorities. But what matters is, we do not think it is wrong for Slovenia to get the Museum of Christianity in Slovenia, no, I do not deny it. I object to the custody of the Museum of Christianity in a way that makes the question very clear: whether you will also take ownership, such as the condition everywhere, that the state can manage or carry out a public service. At the same time, I am also asking about another duality. On the one hand, you took over the establishment of this public institution, and on the other hand, you refused, for example, the application of the Islamic religious community to finance the learning of the Slovenian language, which was minimal. In short, the big differences in your vision are a priority, not only for those who are married, but also for those who come from public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you very much. First, Mr Pukšič has a replica, and then I will give the floor to the Minister. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thank you very much. To explain that there's nothing left in the air. I am very proud and glad to have built a beautiful cultural hall with 300 seats in the central Slovenian Gorica near 60 km of roads. This cultural hall will serve a wider community, not only the municipality, but the entire Slovenian Gorica. And it was already agreed with Minister Richter at that first call, because the rehabilitation of the old hall was possible to be carried out if not, of course, there are other possibilities of co-financing the construction. And since the hall was over 70 years old and we ran into strange things we wouldn't talk about, we did this with the Ministry. And if he was anywhere, then he must have put money into it. It is true, however, that some other projects remain committed and I fear that I will not be able to complete them even in this mandate. Otherwise, we do everything we can to the benefit of our country and countrymen, citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u120	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to respond to Mrs Žgajner Tavš, who also spoke about the implementation of the cultural tolar. I would just like to say that in the budget that has been adopted in previous years or now, there is a percentage of what will be allocated to cultural toll as such. In the context of the resources available, this is carried out as far as possible - in relation to puppet theatres. With regard to the media fund, once again and again: this is not a media fund, this is a normal call for 995 million dollars, even less than those funds that were distributed in the previous government when they distributed a billion and five million, and there was no special wind. If you want, we can read all the committees that have been in the past again, and you will see this great independence, but this is marginal. However, it is important that Mrs Tavševa also said that it is the bulk of the funds, half of them, for church officers and the media, but it is 50 million tolars, which is only 5% of the total resources, not half. With regard to Mr Kumer, who addressed 10 questions to me - if you will allow me, I will read them to you just because I could not prepare myself otherwise. With regard to the representative of cavalry in the world of Lipice - it is a place for the representative of cavalry in the professional world of Kobilarna and not in the world of Kobilarna Lipica. In it we have our representatives from the departments, i.e. those responsible for Kobilna Lipica, agriculture, ILO, the Ministry of Culture and others and representatives of local communities and employees. So, the profession is present in the organ that is also most competent for this. Secondly, the expertise of Director Empty was somehow meant to say that he was not an expert at it. I must say that he is an outstanding expert in the business management of this organization, such as Kobilna Lipica, along with tourism and hospitality, and I must commend him in the last five, six months, when we were there repeatedly and given the first condition, he seems to me to have taken extraordinary steps forward. And as I said before, not only did I mention what I've already said, but he's made contact with cobalt shops, not all over Europe, but in some major masonry, but in particular, as I said with Kobilana Piber at Vienna, and as a professional leader he was named Marco Marc, who is a doctor of science and a veterinarian by profession. In the zoo, Kobilna Lipica gave up a horse, which is not useful for the cobalt alone, and in the zoo she will have a good time with the rest of her life, so to speak. Not now that they were a year and a half of these horses, 17 or 18 horses, in boxing, without ever letting them go to pasture. When they saw those horses, I saw them, so they looked pretty good, just kind of tragic. With regard to the fact that the Lipicans for the "fiacian" Tržačan - I do not know, I think that Director Pust made very good contacts with the Mayor of Trieste, they visited each other, first of all Mr. Pust, also Mr. Mayor of Dipjac came to Trieste and regardless of these ideological or any undertones, I think it is a matter of sincere cooperation that will give birth to better guests coming to Lipico, especially guests from those tourist cruisers who come to Trieste, and of course it will be composed next to Lipica, the Scottish Caves, Postojna Caves, of course. I think it's just good and it's not bad. Dr. Marc's Saturday statement speaks of the fact that the number of Lipicas in private is greater than the number of these horses in Lipica. The point is that private people, who also have their own breed society, have about 600 horses, while in Lipica there are about 400 horses, slightly less. As far as someone's concerned about the job. Employees are familiar with the rules of operation in Kobilana Lipica. In the past, there have been too many misuses of employment and time of service. The issue of arrival, departure from the workplace, was also totally unresolved, even a number of such "everyday" offences, which pointed to complete debauchery. This is Mr Desert, as the new director, who has arranged very well or is still trying to regulate with one constant presence. This is also a man who practically walks around the property every morning and also the barns, all of it. It's about training riders. So we know that there are no special educational programs for riders in the Lipi riding schools, so in Kobilana they have always received young riders without adequate education and thus given them the opportunity to train. Now the programs are also prepared to send individual teams of these younger riders to seminars or to multi-week school riding education, including to Vienna, which I think is very good and acceptable in itself. About the cooperation of foreign trainers. I think it's a very good sign if people who are experts come from Spanish riding school. This refers to the previous question and that these young riders will also be on the spot, in Lipica itself, not only will they go there for longer school days, but they will also be coaches in Lipica itself. About the program; you're asking what program he's supposed to be defending. I support the Kobilar Lipica Programme for Protection and Development, which was adopted by the Government, which discusses the development and preservation of cultural heritage and speaks about the development of horseradish. This programme discusses measures to improve the management of tourism by restoring hotels. Now Lipica shows the face, when it is worth being promoted and connected in this small space and relatively interesting, karst to actually connect, say, the Škocjan Caves, Postojna, Lipica and the coastal part, in particular Piran and Portorož, which are tourist interesting. That's what this is about. Then I would reply to Mr Školč, who is talking about the fund for the book and the mandatory copy. The mandatory copy law was chosen and approved in Parliament. The publishers agreed, and the National and University Library agreed, and I think there is nothing wrong with it. We have a lot of excuses for professionalism - but now I don't know if it's the right profession. There is no RTV law, and now there is no real profession because they supported the law. The provision for the replacement of those 16 copies, which are now smaller than that book, of the 16 copies which are subsidised, decreased to 4. This difference, these financial resources were provided by the Ministry for the purchase of library material. With regard to value added taxes and a speech on the bookkeeping fund, I would like to say that, in the previous period, the Ministry of Culture had already requested information from the Ministry of Finance from the Ministry of Finance, how much the state collects annually and also in relation to the establishment of the fund, and the Ministry of Finance replied that they did not know this number and that it was also pointless to establish this fund. The same happened also in 2004, on 10 May, when the State Secretary - I believe that, Mrs Helena Kamnar - wrote to Mr Jožef Školč that the same value added tax could not be established in relation to the book that they did not have this data and that the book fund was also not to be placed, this budget fund for the book. When the new government arrived, we tried to obtain this information several times, as well as the amount of this added value tax for the book. Now the number - it was, I don't know, from Mr. 3 billion, whether it was about whether or not it was now forgotten, but we did get this data from the Ministry of Finance and the Statistical Office, and it accurately states that in 2002 it was collected that the estimate, which is as tangible as it is, in 2002 - billion 43 million, 2003 - billion 82 million, 2004 - billion 83 million. In short, this has been identified and given the basis which will also allow the Ministry of Culture to carry out further steps with regard to the creation of this book fund. It will only have to be decided whether it is a public fund or a budget. Here it is necessary to think carefully, but it is the fact that we have calculated on this basis, including through other data, even how much the total value of selling the book is, how much VAT is then from the total value and how much the Ministry of Culture gives and how much tax, of course, the input and output of which the publishers actually pay, how much they get back. And from this tax, publishers are expected to contribute about 750 million tolars. This means that the Ministry of Culture, for books, for subsidies and for all these things, strongly exceeds the resources. And this is also one of the conditions, one would say, and the basis for the possibility of creating a book fund. Therefore, the appropriations of the budget fund must not be less than the amount of funds collected from value added tax per book for the previous year. And we will try to prepare this book fund, and I hope that next year we will succeed, and all those who have taken such a stand, I believe that you will support this decision in full. I think it'll actually be possible to set up a book fund. As long as, I warn, we will see if all those who have so vehemently demanded in last year and decided repeatedly that this fund should be established if they are still in favour. I am arguing that, at this point, most of the things envisaged for the book are already in fact the Ministry is doing this function. But this is already another debate in detail, which is likely to come into public debate and there will be much more to be said about it. Regarding Škrafen’s home or film museum in Divača, this is the case. This investment is also part of the so-called cultural tolar, but I mentioned earlier that it is two tranches, one from the late 1990s and one from the beginning of 2000. It doesn't belong in that first part, and I tend to be satisfied with the things that are in the first part. Not everything can be done, including by the Minister, I think he can have certain priorities, but in this case, the priorities are, above all, those with which the beneficiaries and those who prepare all things from the first tranche of this cultural toll are those with whom it is sufficient to do so as soon as possible. This does not mean that we deny to others that this would not happen. As far as the main and supreme law on culture is concerned, this is certainly not the National Programme for Culture, which is not the law, but is just a resolution, a programming guide. The main, fundamental law is the so-called Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. Well, actually, it's not that important, but because it's always said that the National Programme for Culture is a supremely binding document and that it's legally valid - it doesn't. As for the Museum of Christianity in Slovenia, forgive me, I do not know what is wrong with this. Why couldn't I be the Museum of Christianity in Slovenia? This is a museum in Stica, one of the oldest cistercian monasteries in Europe, if you want, so historically important. It has 17,000 exhibits, 30 collections, it has the whole team, 20,000 visitors a year, and I don't know why, but when it comes to Christianity, it's all wrong again - I don't know, Catholicism, the Roman Catholic Church and these overstretched things. No, this is our cultural heritage, very important, and we have inclined it to become a museum of Christianity in Slovenia as well as part of this institutional world or the environment of museums. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The first one has a replica of Mrs. Žgajner Tavš and then Mr. Skolč. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Well, let's be careful, distinguished minister, of our cultural heritage. In this context, I ask you. On 20 October this year, Jelen's turtle was demolished. It's a partisan monument, part of our history. I'm asking why, Minister. Even for this part of our history, cultural heritage, if you want, it's your responsibility. You don't know? It's sad, Minister. You mentioned co-financing or that public call I named under the so-called media fund. Why did I say "so-called" media fund - because you promised the media fund in the course of the debate in the framework of the RTV Act in the National Assembly and subsequently in the framework of the Media Act. The so-called media fund - and I hope you will now understand what the point is - has divided the funds along the disputed political path. Such a dispute was also the composition of a commission, a respected minister. The Commission, which shared media funds on the basis of a call for proposals from the so-called media fund, has sat as many as two authors of the New Magazine, Andrej Aplenc and Matjaž Tomšič, although the Media Act does not allow individuals who have a contractual relationship as external employees with the media publisher or with an advertising organisation to be members of the Commission. And, you know, the new magazine also received very large funds on the basis of this invitation to tender. I'm supposed to get -- let me read -- 15 million Slovenian tolars. Although she has already received 70 million Slovenian tolars from the Ministry of Culture this year. I asked you a question and warned you of alleged irregularities. For, as I have already said, I have not received the answer from you to my question. And given that a number of doubts arise in the media, in the public and even today in the context of interpolation, or even rather reasonable matters, that something really "does not count" about the allocation of funds from this fund or on the basis of a call for tender, it would make sense for a minister not only to deceive, but to tell the truth of the facts [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u123	Three minutes. Thank you so much for your insight. Mr. Skull, a replica or a proponent? Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u124	See, when Hungary came the day that the prime minister lied about economic indicators, a crowd of people gathered and demanded his dismissal. The hardness of the Hungarian government, and the reputation, however, has been greatly shaken. The Minister certainly did not hear the question in the second attempt when he answered, and it will certainly be possible to tell him every time that he deceived and lied to the general Slovenian public about who the experts who wrote the law on RTV were. I find it very embarrassing that the Minister of Culture will hold on to a more or less unpleasant nickname. As far as the book is concerned. Mr Minister, you wrote in your report that, according to the available data, the state support for the book was higher than the amount collected by the State under VAT. That's not true. From the VAT title - according to the data we both have and provided by the statistical office - it has come up - I will only speak for 2005 - 3 billion 520 million sit. However, for the purpose envisaged by the book fund, there was a good billion funding. So this is 34% of the funds that should otherwise be used by the fund for five purposes. You alluded to getting to 3,600.000.000, all the programs from the library; and here again you are deceiving the public. The importance of the funds is not only in the amount of money, but also in their relative autonomy. And when your predecessor, like himself and the predecessor, resisted this trifle when we all defended this fund, we calculated that the Minister's long fingers would be away from dividing subsidies. And that's the point of the fund. This, however, is not possible until it has been established and until it has been given relative autonomy. And speaking of which, and when we're discussing the subsidies you're giving and you've got a colleague of Minister Rupl here, I'm wondering if maybe he went part of the grant money to New Magazine for the payment of the account that Mr. Minister Rupel made when he just attended. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u125	One minute, Mr. Skolch. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u126	The Assembly for the Republic led by you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u127	Mr. Skolč [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u128	And you're also so responsible for paying the bill. [[...]] Otherwise, tell me how you're going to raise money for this account.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I ask you kindly not to involve other ministers in the debate, because Mr Rupl's very presence does not give him the right to replicate. Mr. Secretary has the floor now, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u130	Mrs Tavšev would only reply that Mr Aplenc and Tomšič do not have contracts with the magazines mentioned above. It is a magazine, but it got 15 million in this fund, it was decided by the Commission, as I have already said, it has been published publicly on the websites, all complaints are possible, all counter-arguments are possible, but I am judging, although I have not decided on this, but I know the New Magazine, because this round is also close to me, but I think that this magazine is justified to get - I don't know if it is appropriate enough - but it has received these funds. I don't think I'm fooling around with anything that the lady said. What Mr Školč likes to accuse me of deceiving and lying and long fingers, in short, is a matter of level which he masters. But I could say that, as far as VAT is concerned, I don't know where Mr. School has this information. I have other data, I have those, as I said, since VAT in 2004 were supposed to be collected for books - for books of course, and this is also the case - a billion 300 million, but, as I said, when input and exit tax bases are rejected, almost half of these funds are returned to publishers and half of them are paid back. And in relation to what they pay, in relation to the funds that the Ministry of Culture spends on books, but if all other ministries, of course, include books that also subsidise, there will be over two billion of these funds. But that's another debate. I have this data, and I'm operating on it, of course, if there's any other data, now, I don't know, I don't think I'm lying, but maybe someone else is making it up, and I have this data, and I'm operating on it, and based on this data, I've said what I thought. Of course, if it turns out that the data are different, wrong, I will try to take action where it needs to be done and adjust the policy in relation to the creation of a book fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Gulič has applied for the floor as a candidate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u132	I think a few answers have yet to be given to me, Mr Minister, you haven't answered the question about the focal points, you've just overheared that, and even though we've begun with ignorance and carelessness, there are things you obviously don't want to hear. However, the question was raised at the request of the coalition to ask something new in order to learn something new. It is said that for these focal points I can also repeat the matter, 11 million tolars from the cultural heritage conservation item, although it is not a movement that deals in any way with cultural heritage. Of course, the financing of such activities is not in line with the separation of religious communities from the State and even after the interpretation of the Constitutional Court, such matters must not be financed. Even this "flugzeug scandal" has not yet been cleared, as Mr Školč asked. Well, if it's necessary, we'll put another pin in this rubber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u134	Mr Gulič, I am truly sorry, but I have not answered the question of fees before, and even now in perfectness, I apologize, I have not understood this question. If you're so kind, if you say it again, and if I know it, I'll answer, but I won't. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u135	Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u136	Okay, I think this kind of thing needs to be cleared up. Of course, it is an ecumenical society that has received 11 million tolars. It is one of Maria’s folklore associations, the fogolari, which began there in 1943 in Tren, from the spiritual experience of Chiara Lubich. You probably got this as a justification that chose life after the Gospel. From this he has developed and expanded the life-style that has attracted and even now is leading many people of different races, religions, cultures around the world, etc. This year, the Ministry of Culture awarded a few more than 11 million tolars under the heading Maintaining Cultural Heritage. I want to know how this happened, and also what the criteria were for this to happen. I hope the question is now understandable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u138	Your Honor! So this is the first time I've heard. I was ready for the interpolation. I don't think that's what we're talking about. Let this not be an apology, but I will certainly ask you about it and we will inform you in detail.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u139	Thank you very much. There was a long way between Ambassador Pukšič and Mr Ptrić. Mr. Potch, it's finally your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, Madam Secretary of State. I've been waiting, and it's my turn. I would not discuss or judge the actual impact of the Minister of Culture in the Government. I know he's a minister, and I respect that, and I know that colleagues and colleagues from the Liberal Democracy have put an interpellation against him. And I would like some of my opinions and reasons why I would like to vote in favour of resolution at the end, if such a proposal is made orally, as it is written today. Mr. Minister, first of all, I don't understand your questions and your objections to the content of the interpretation. In fact, when you were talking about not being specific, that it is contrary to the rules of procedure, that it does not indicate where you have broken the laws and the like - I don't understand because it is not a problem that should be posed. In fact, you are not accused of unlawful or unconstitutional conduct before the Constitutional Court, but you have been subjected to interpretation and it is not illegal, but also proper or inadequate political conduct as a minister. Here we have the right of Members and Members to judge whether or not we consider certain political behaviour appropriate, and this is considered a criterion, on the basis of which we define ourselves as or against interpretation. I think it would be good, I would say, to clear that up because I didn't understand your objections in that regard. Another thing I'd like to say in the first place. I didn't like it when you tried to reduce the importance and credibility of interpolation by discrediting the first ones under interpolation, it's not nice, it's not polite, and it's not a decent act of the Minister for Culture, whether or not each of us has any youth, I'd say, in his current conduct and character. Members and Members have the right to interpellation and it is the responsibility of the Minister to respond as correctly as possible to the claims that have been made, whether justified or not, in interpretation. Third. Now there's something about content. My fundamental reason to support the interpretation or motion for a vote on discharge is also linked to the adoption of the RTV Act. And it is not for you or my colleague and fellow Members of the coalition to tell me that I do not know that the law has been passed by the National Assembly - I know. That I do not know that it was confirmed by a minimum majority at the referendum, but even if this majority were only one vote - it was confirmed, I know that too. However, I have the right to judge the conduct of you and others at a time when we have argued from different backgrounds that this law would be adopted with or without such content, and in this regard I personally believe that your political behaviour has also been misleading to citizens and citizens who have made decisions at the referendum. For this reason, I believe that you have not acted properly and are guilty of the content of the law because you have also misrepresented it, after my presentation, and is now accepted as not giving me personally assurance that it is in the interest of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia. There's already been a subscription speech today. I will not repeat what you said, because we are probably still remembering, but I will tell you that your minister, your ministerial colleague, has had exactly the diametric opposite of you when the real value increases, whether the problem arises or not for those who are entitled to certain funds. A trifle when we talked about the Social Transfer Act. He proved that there is no problem for recipients of social transfers if social transfers are identified once a year, because this still keeps the same percentage, regardless of whether we all know that at that time - you have given specific information - for example, 2.5% of inflation was at the end of the year and that at the end of the year these recipients of social transfers will actually get 2.5% less, according to your claims. And I agree with you. These recipients of social transfers will also get 2.5% less or more at the end of the year, because this will gradually overflow. And I don't like it when the same government uses different criteria through the mouth of two ministers for its political interest. And that's all I want to say. At least what I can say with all certainty, because I have also been with you in public presentations of various aspects of this law, the precision of reducing the RTV subscription from your mouth was not such that anyone could understand that you will enforce this claim by comparing the absolute height of the RTV subscription with the salary that an individual has or will receive or compare with the real value. This is what has now arisen, but it is important to me because we, other opponents, have argued that it is likely to refer to the fact that the rent - and at the time we spoke - has been reduced, and the rent reduction for me, and I do not know otherwise Slovenian - means from 100 to 95, this is a reduction, otherwise it is a relative relationship. This is how we all understood and considered that you were not right for citizens and citizens. Another time. As Minister, you had to know what it was like to be able to implement the third RTV programme and the meetings. If you didn't know, it was, no offense, your ignorance, and I don't want to report it to you. You knew. And today, to say that the question of the implementation of the third programme is whether I think that the third programme is the ideal solution, that people enjoy watching us, that we are funny, that we have sufficient controversy or not, regardless of whether it is a matter of responsibility and implementation of the RTV Act, because it was one of the acquisitions of the new law. And today we all knew that this could not be achieved very soon, because the second, third, fourth, is not a correct excuse. This was one of the claims that was not realised. And the third time. You talked about whether or not the political impact of the previous RTV Act was justified and guaranteed, and now after the new political influence, there will be no more. You didn't tell the truth in that part. Even if it was previously wrong, in the new RTV Act it is systematically installed through the composition of the RTV Council, through the RTV Programme Council, through its powers and through actual elections, as we managed in the Mandate-Election Commission and in the National Assembly, including that list of how the coalition should vote, which we have just won. And to say that, through the composition of the Council, which then has all the powers to appoint a director and the Director goes on to editors and the like, there is no political influence, it is simply not true. You have spoken the least half-truth on these three points, and that is why this is sufficient for me in my own right, that I believe we have passed a law on RTV, which is not useful, because a better solution could be found, even with greater cooperation from the opposition, professions and the like, civil society, which you have ignored here, but unfortunately this has not happened. I consciously did not mention the fourth point, which you very much stressed, because I know that there is also a question of price and taste. In fact, you have very stressed the program will be more qualitative. And I tell you, I personally think otherwise, but it can be said peacefully that it is also a matter of my taste. That's why I don't want to talk about it, because for a lot of people, it's better because he imagined something else, and because I'm mainly following the political part of the program more than sports, culture, history and similar things, you probably understand why, even because I don't have much time for everything else. However, I would like to refer to the programme and to the competences of the Programme Council, for which I have not been most enthusiastic, but they are set out in Article 16 and say: "... regularly consider the implementation of the adopted programming design and production plan and give instructions to the Director-General concerning the correction of deficiencies in these areas", the following indent, "consider the implementation of the adopted programming design", which is very similar, but the following indent is specifically written, "reading the comments and suggestions of viewers and audiences of RTV Slovenia's programmes and defining them in determining the programming policy and in justified cases to instruct the Director-General on the changes to be made in the programmes". I would like to express my great satisfaction with the fact that the journalists of the information programme, that the group of members of the RTV Programme Council and others have expressed their protest against the content already mentioned today, are journalists of the information programme, that the group of members of the RTV Programme Board and others have expressed their opposition to the content already mentioned, that the pyramids of the previous Tuesday should be assessed as to whether such content corresponds to the public RTV programming platforms or whether it is such as to promote hate speech and perhaps more. I really judge, I suggest, even though I do not like to talk about the content of some shows themselves, that the competent in RTV in the programming world assess this situation and that they be defined in accordance with Article 16 of the law, as I have read it. And last of all, which is why I believe that your conduct deserves interpretation, which does not mean respect for the law, is your attitude and also your interpretation of the specific problem of concluding an appropriate treaty with the Roman Catholic parish in Bled regarding the decision taken at the Supreme Court. For I am of the opinion that your explanation is that, on the basis of this decision and because of the constitutional dispute that you are not obliged to conclude contracts, it is not correct. The decision of the Supreme Court shall be binding and enforceable. And if you could and should, in order to protect the interests of the State, because it is a matter of public and cultural good, and because the State would, through the conclusion of the relevant treaty, also provide the necessary material resources - and if you wish to make a bad comment - to remedy the decision taken in 1992 at the time of the Demos' Government under the auspices of Dr. Capudra, who - I think, two or three months after the request for denationalisation was made, has already been assessed as being justified and actually in possession of a complex Blae Island by the Roman Catholic parish in Bled, which, apart from the church of Mary's skys rise, has proved to be unfounded. I think it is right and time that this obligation of the State to respect this decision is being realized, and Mr Minister, I say that your reference to a constitutional decision would be justified only if the Constitutional Court were to suspend enforcement, because, at least in my conduct, it would not be your duty as Minister to enforce the ruling of the Supreme Court, which, I stress once again, is legal and enforceable. And I allow myself to think that you didn't do this because it wasn't in your interest because you wanted to do it at this point too - and this is not the only one when this country is doing so - to guarantee the special privileges and special rights of the Roman Catholic Church. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr. Secretary! In the LDS Club, we have also prepared an interpretation of your work to draw the attention of the general Slovenian public to some unequivocal irregularities, mistakes, and we also believe bad work, and we believe that this discussion at your ministry will also show this. Regardless of how and how the vote on this interpretation will end, I am sure that we have already succeeded in an important part of it. In the past nine hours, virtually all of us, Members and Members of the entire opposition, not just one political party, three political parties, and I must say, some Members and Members from the position, have identified many weaknesses and mistakes. What I would have wanted was probably an illusion, but it is that some of these things you yourself would have come to know, perhaps at some point they were asked and not always, and in any case they just waved their hand and found that the interpretation was irrelevant, that it was without arguments and that it was just a free file. I am sure that in these nine hours we have said a lot of things, found out, and that the answers were so general, some are so close and obviously unrealistic that we can still talk about them. And I believe that much more of what has been said today will prove to be an untruth. We talked about a lot of things, for example, about puppet theater in Maribor. Very interesting allegations. In one day we heard on one side that you again assured that someone else, who was once the mayor of Maribor and was still performing a number of functions in Maribor, was telling false stories, telling lies. Taists said you were doing it today. And today, I must say, we have not received an answer to this question. Of course, I sincerely hope that we will receive the answer below. Last but not least, if the answer is that the former mayor of Maribor is right, then this is undoubtedly an obvious, clear example of political corruption. We also heard about Lipica. With regard to Lipica, we have worked for years to resolve the situation. I admit not always the most successful, but there have been many efforts. There have been efforts by the Ministers for Culture, many of them so far, and I believe that you may have considered something to do in this area first, as well as the Ministers in the field of agriculture. The solution you are offering is not the solution of Lipica, but it is the wild privatisation of Lipica and some kind of corruption, as we have never known in Slovenia. However, I must say that I am personally and also the most concerned in the LDS House of Members about what you are doing, what you are doing, what you are saying and what you are now defending in the field of media, in the area of RTV Slovenia. Despite all the words, evidence, if you will, letters and public calls we have heard today that you do not see that your promises would not be fulfilled. You do not see that the situation in this area in Slovenia is clearly and clearly deteriorating, but you even claim that the situation has improved and is better. Despite the fact that a new law has been passed with all the pumping and enthusiasm of some and some of you are still proud of this law and that you have replaced the director of RTV, the director of television, the director of the radio that was replaced by the director of the information programme, the director of the entertainment programme on TV Slovenia, that the editor of the I. programme radio, editor II. Radio program, these results are not available. I must say, I will sign immediately under the promises you made before the adoption of the RTV Act. I would have voted in favour of this law if I believed those promises at that time. If I believed then that you would actually do it. If I believed that the result of this law would be more varied, a better programme of public broadcasting. I don't see it, I have to say that I don't see a more varied and quality program, and if today we ask the viewers and viewers who are watching it today, and there's more to it, I don't think we would agree that the TV programme of Slovenia is any better, that this law will guarantee the rights of journalists to free reporting, let me ask Mrs Vida Petrovčič whether she agrees that this law has led to the right to free reporting. Perhaps even this same journalist voted in favour of this law, and today ask her if this law has really led to the right to free decision. Did this law really guarantee what you have claimed on so many occasions in public tribunals that this law will ultimately be able to ensure that journalists are free, upright and independent? The first journalist, who was such, has been punished, has been eliminated and punished, and today of course this interpretation is explained because it is upright, even to the general public of Slovenia; and it is also the only way that we can change things. You said, for a more cost-effective business and for a smaller RTV contribution. Normally, I'd sign myself right now under such a solution, and I'd like to give you a hand, and I have to say that I don't see any more cost-effective business. The Director's salary, the meetings, as well as the costs that are, are still as high or much or higher as we listened to Member Kumra. I must also say, of course, that saving on the part where you have abolished certain software schemes or you have suspended the transfer of the Euro League. So those schemes that have the most viewers - there is no saving, but it is damage to those who pay RTV contributions. You said, for more culture, good fun and more quality information - I sign right now, anytime. And yesterday's Pyramid was more of a culture and a good time? Is promoting intolerance and xenophobia what you promised? Today you have received a letter signed by RTV Slovenia journalists telling you what is happening and what has happened. And last but not least, Mr. Secretary, not only are these obvious evidence. Even what you can measure, you yourself have said that you have not seen any evidence of what you are doing wrong and what was wrong. The RTV ratings clearly show that RTV Slovenia's ratings have fallen. Well, that's reliable information, and you'll say it's a better way. Or the decline in the confidence of viewers in the media, which has been measured and which is really connected not only to the case of RTV Slovenia, but also to the political takeover of the newspaper of work and all those collobations that you have done and started in the office of the Prime Minister of the Government at the time of taking over the newspaper company Delo. I very honestly believe you, but here I believe you, unlike the other statements you've been explaining here today. You said today that you are really much more pleased with the newspaper, Dela. Of course I believe you are! I very much believe that now that you can decisively influence the content of the newspaper Dela, it favors you, it is kinder to you, it is less independent, it is less impartial. Of course, it's the kind of work you want it to be. It's the kind of work you want. And the same is happening on RTV Slovenia. Of course, viewers and viewers, readers and readers are not naive and this can be seen from the viewership of RTV and can also be seen from the reading of the newspaper company Delo. Mr Minister, at the time of your adoption, you have argued vehemently, now I will quote you, not on national television, but on commercial television, quoted you as saying: "The new law imposes a very clear responsibility, which will also give rise to better programming opportunities, and I think that television will become a real public television with this responsibility, transparency and public part of the governance structure." That's what you said at the public hearing. This is a quotation from what you have said, promised, and on the basis of what too many have decided to support this law and such an arrangement. I would have supported this law and such an arrangement if I believed you, but I didn't believe you, and I think I was right not to believe you. Because television is not better, but in particular it is no longer public, because the result of the law that you have adopted and finally adopted, is - I have said this many times - state television, which you yourself manage, control, control and the results are here, measurable and public. You have provided for yourself, you and the others who have defended the law, the law and the system and the television management scheme will now be such that the hierarchy will be transparent and transparent and will therefore be clearly responsible. And responsibility will go all the way to the government and also to political parties, who will be the only ones to decide who will sit and who will manage this television. Now I'm counting on you to take this responsibility. You promised more responsibility, and please, at least in this area, stick to that promise you made here. Of course, I'd like to remind you of another interesting matter. These days, I was looking at what you suggested, the political parties you're here, at the procedure in the National Assembly. Perhaps you have suggested something like this, which you should now suggest to me, perhaps even put it to a referendum, perhaps ask Slovenian citizens and citizens whether they agree with such an arrangement. If true, and we will make this consideration that this television is no longer public, that it is government, then there is also reflection on who and how it will pay in Slovenia RTV subscription - whether the subscription has fallen or not, or whether we are playing with deflation, inflation or real sizes. If you are already so proud to enter the euro area, then count the RTV subscription to the euro and you will find that in the euro RTV the subscription has remained, of course, unchanged. We in Slovenia have a fixed course of the euro since 2004, since June, and we will have it from 1 January at all, and it is no longer changing. And in euros, RTV is a constant subscription. What does the law that you filed on 13 May 2004 say? First-signed France Cuckati, second-signed Janez Janša. On 13 May 2004, these two gentlemen, one of whom today is the President of the Government, the other President of the National Assembly, proposed: The contributor to the payment of the contribution under this Act is not the person who makes the declaration that the receivers, thought by the TV receiver and radio, were not used to listen to or watch RTV Slovenia's radio and television programmes. So in this law, Janez Janša and France Tsukati suggested that all those who declare in Slovenia that television and radio are not used to listen or watch RTV Slovenia are exempt from paying RTV contributions. Perhaps this is a good suggestion, however, that after more than a year of experience with your proposal, we propose something like this. We will see what citizens and citizens of Slovenia will say if we ask them such a question. Whether or not they'll agree. We too will consider whether we will make such a proposal or not. Whether we go with such a proposal or not, does it also depend on how the National Assembly here and now decides? Will he break the practice that is now taking place? Will he take the side of independent journalism? Or will he bow? Today, he will bow to the will of someone and, although it is more or less clear and obvious that promises and programmes and commitments have been broken, he has voted against the Minister's dismissal. Or perhaps it will just go into this direction to change this practice, to find together that in the past, that everything was wrong, we too can admit our part, there is no problem finding that everything is not all right now and that we are looking for a better system that will lead to the public Radio Television of Slovenia, perhaps as some offer, following the example of the British BBC, or some other comparable arrangements, whose main objective should be that in Slovenia we would no longer have the cases of Vide Petrovčič. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u143	Thank you. Thank you, too, my colleague Pavlich, for the afternoon session. Member of Parliament Miro Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Hello, everyone in this room. I think the LDS interpellation against the Minister of Culture is a major intellectual black construction. But with black constructions, we know what it's like to legalize them or to demolish them. If this black construction were legalized, of course we would have stepped back to the previous millennium, but we could have destroyed it. But it is being overthrown by voters and voters, two years ago, and these last local elections have already given their opinion. Of course, it is evident from this account that the interpretation was written by frustrated postcommunists. However, I was pleased to read Mr Vask Simoniti's reply, which was lucid and with this interpolation he did not account with his left hand, but with arguments. I'm glad we finally have Rudi Sheliga as the minister of culture again, not one of your officials or your village's officials. But I'm sorry that Minister Simonita has to listen to all this crap and hold her back to pour all this shit on him. I don't think I could take advantage of this day more usefully. If you look at Cobiss, how many scientific works Mr Simoniti has written, you will come to the conclusion that he has written many more than many in this House have read during his lifetime. Sixty thousand copies sold by Mr Simoniti are, of course, a result that will rarely be achieved in this country. Well, Minister Simoniti has decided to be the minister, we've confirmed him here, and he has to eat this too. The Slovenian cultural public was repeatedly surprised by the interpellation against the minister - many said it was an interpretation of culture. Drago Jančar was strange about it, and somewhere he said, there were a lot of quotes here today, and I'm going to use the quote. Drago Jančar says, "how people whose culture has always been the ninth concern, but they knew nothing about art, chose culture as the scene of political struggle! Of course, everything here is targeted at RTV, the RTV Act, the lost referendum, which is for the ruling, formerly ruling elite, great pain. Many admit, however, that there is nothing more political impact on RTV than in the past, and even those who watch journalists and work on national RTV recognize it quite firmly under their fingertips. But it's really harder to understand all those who are used to the famous "dear Tone-dear Borut" matrix, or if I borrow Drago Jančar again, "it's bad for those who have been used to customer offices just by phone to edit newspapers and TV shows". I was surprised that the document was also included in this file, these are the records from the forums. I was surprised and, of course, disappointed because I think that in the history of Slovenian Parliamentarianism, something like this has never happened in the history of interpretation. Of course, the only way to build interpretations on anonymous writers' statements is by not having enough valid arguments and using Internet forums. It says here in these forums, there are expressions such as "TV Vatican, the Janshevist Media Fund, the Shababiser media." I don't know if we deserve to discuss such documents here in Parliament. I'm really sorry. Given that my opposition colleagues are very fond of quoting, talking about European institutions, the institution "World Press Freedom Committee", which wrote in the Vienna Declaration in 2002, is Article 4, which is that it is necessary to separate the news from the news, and has advocated a culture of dialogue, of course, at the same time advocated freedom on the Internet, but stressed the culture of dialogue, which we discussed not least yesterday when we discussed the Ombudsman's Report. Maybe there's something else about censorship that's been talked about here today. It is necessary to separate censorship, it is the pressure of politics, the owner, the pressure of editors on the media, on journalists and, of course, the work of journalists. There is, of course, an exception, an esteemed colleague of Vida Petrovčič, who is certainly one of the best Slovenian journalists, but it is true that they walk around young writers who talk about some censorship in the Slovenian press and the nationalist. This censorship is questionable. I would say earlier that this is a modest journalistic knowledge, many times to mix journalistic species, which, of course, cannot be wrapped in cellophane and sold as censorship. It's a matter of profession. Journalism in Slovenian space is unfortunately not a profession, such as medicine or law, but it is already another story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u145	Thank you. Member Pavel Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u146	Thank you very much. It is very good that a respected colleague Miro Petek spoke before me about interpolation as some kind of black construction. I wonder what kind of means this interpolation is going to destroy - it's going to burn us, burn us, or just press the gray button? And if this interpellation falls, as in other cases, will it forcefully take their authors to the refugee centre in Postojno? Otherwise, I applied a little later to say that I would actually listen to the debate, and also to the minister, what he would tell us. For the truth of the loving, written answer to the interpretation is a mixture of some bureaucratic answers, some flossules. And today, unfortunately, after all that was said on his part, I am not more satisfied with his answer. More than that, I'd like to tell him - he's not here, how typical we speak to the minister, we talk about the air or air he breathes, of course I'm leaving his coworker here. However, I would like to tell him - or the air he has been breathing - he has in particular introduced him to his view of the situation in Slovenian cultural policy in recent years, since he has been leading this ministry. In all areas of culture and media policy, where he has dealt with matters, it is worse. It deviates, and radically, from the established codes of cultural policy, from the principles of tolerance, the admission of various and aesthetic practices, the intolerance of politically biased projects, the opening and promotion of media plurality, the institutions are being dismantled, suspended and replaced. A culture of silence is developing. Maybe some people don't know - or I don't want to talk too much about it myself - I was the President of the ŠKUC Forum for quite a long time in the 1980s. Many people who started at the time on the edge of the cultural margin are now established and recognized artists with all possible awards. Many of the people I meet tell me and blur over the situation that is taking place today in Slovenian culture. It's completely different in their eyes. And when I tell them to trigger it, they say, no, no, there's not time yet, let's wait a little longer. They fear - a culture of fear and a culture of silence. And when there is a chance that in this bad situation, however, it is possible to choose between the bad and the worse, the minister chooses the increasingly bad option. There's no choice. And when it seems that it can't go any worse, or if there's some weak possibility that it could be a little better or otherwise, no, it's an empty hope, it can always be even worse. Minister Simoniti does not allow hope for an open cultural policy, even though this phrase is used and talks about it a lot. First and foremost, and that's what I've been paying attention to today, at the level of the culture talk. His judgments are inexcusable and final; he utters them in some way, I would say, a sublime and demeaning way, a self-sufficient way, like some final state. And let's say this truth to Potokar-Ravnik's Bureau of Speech without eye-training. In response to interpolation, you don't do the readings, you do the interpretations. Otherwise, we have already heard and expected this government to be the mandatory prayer and catch-up form "if there is something wrong with culture, it is the fault of the previous governments". We are the one who the minister tells us, namely his Government, who are correcting these mistakes, who, as he said, have taken the regulation seriously. And, yes, they've taken it seriously to edit the Kobilar Lipica and look at it, it's creating a new golf course. And more than that, buy the manure the minister was talking about, buy the manure in front of the stables, disappear into unprotected karst gardeners and threaten water resources. The minister boasts that the leaves have fallen off in the fall, and soon our minister will give himself credit for rising the sun in the morning, blaming his critics for setting up at night. And seriously, this government, if we move forward, has taken on the regulation of the Roma problem and look, we have evicted citizens and beaten citizens. They've taken the RTV situation seriously, and we have programs that are being watched by fewer and fewer people. I'd like to draw attention to a few specific cases. Thirdly, in the debate on the law on RTV, I pointed out that the minister is promising something that he will not be able to deliver. I drew attention to the lack of frequency and infrastructure to ensure coverage of 90% of the country's territory. I also pointed out that the existing broadcaster infrastructure is not suitable for coverage due to physical legality. I also made estimates that such a network would cost about a billion tolars. You did not answer me that the frequency is enough to just redistribute them; yet in response to the interpolation it admits that they are not. He must have known that at the time, he was knowingly deceiving. Besides, I hate to quote myself, but I will, in this law, declare once that the Minister of Culture is a Middle Ages specialist who has not yet had television, and this does not excuse him for sending the Medieval Law on RTV to the National Assembly. Today I have to apologize. Today I have to apologize. I have to apologize to the Middle Ages. This was much more open and free than the political horizon of the current cultural policy and minister. Frustration, as some say, is us, the LDS's, you're gonna lose TVS. I don't know why we'd be frustrated with something to lose something we never actually had. The directors of RTV were, once again, Janez Jerovšek, Žarko Petan, Janez Čadež, Alex Štakul. None of these were anywhere near the LDS for all these 15 years. Koper Lipica. As a representative of the government, the Minister proposed and defended the Law on Kobilna Lipica. The ruling coalition has accepted it despite our opposition. The Constitutional Court retained it in the work relating to the management of spatial matters and the developmental protection programmes. Clearly, in Europe since the Middle Ages, it has been considered that the regulation of space is a defence in the public domain, which means that in the regulations must be made public, and in particular, the borders and owners of neighbouring parcels which could be affected should be affected. We purpose and explicitly deny this tradition of regulating space, and what such a thing of course cannot come through as much as a normal country. For a year and a half, the real minister, 17 horses in boxing, is said to be at a time when you're running this government and when you've taken the reins, and the e-mail also tells me that right now, in these days, it's really no different. There's been a lot of talk about the influence on the media, editors and journalists. I would say that politicians, like some other exposed professions, want to influence how others report on them. Secondly, when politicians abuse public power, power and power given to it by the President of the Government, the Minister and so on, and remove journalists if they assess that they report in a way that does not correspond to their policies. This happened on RTV with Vida Petrovčič, who was already mentioned, as well as in cases where it was a political issue, such as that of Sunday afternoon, an extremely capable organizer, editor, author of the show Bojan Kranjc has left, he was forced to leave from television, to a clear, commercial channel. And not just him, the whole team went with him because you can't work there anymore. And the programming board, for example, had a debate on this, on programming standards, and one of these standards, was to stipulate that journalists should not report favourably on non-democratic regimes. This has not been accepted, but this has been rejected, but it is bizarre that this is being considered to qualify for reporting on countries which are reported favourably, which are reported unfavorably. Or, say, the director of TV Slovenia, Mr Možina, who, at the time of the Hotiz plot, demanded, as it is called, patriotic reporting - this means reporting in favour of the Government, which should "like" defend national interest, instead of reporting all aspects of the complication, of the various views and of the different viewpoints of the view. Interesting. There is also no more confrontation between ministers and, say, representatives of the opposition. Here and there, the last one might have been right with the minister. However, current editors have widely protected ministers and government representatives from unpleasant issues and criticism of the opposition. It is also said and praised by our colleagues that the politicians of this government do not call the editors. Of course that's not true, we know. These reporters tell us that's not true. True, they probably don’t have to make much phone calls anymore because they have appointed editors to guess the wishes of their masters before they are told, and these are real editors. The real editor is the one who reports in your image so that he doesn't have to order it at all, and that's what happened today, of course. I could talk a lot, but I would say, above all, that the Minister is not responsible for every article that is written, is not responsible for every broadcast and for every word that invited guests say and is responsible for the state of the media space and the cultural space as a whole. For its regulation, whether it is plural, open or free, it also prevents those forms of speech that actually cause unrest, intolerance and hatred. And this law has set up such a programming council that you chose here. He has appointed such editors and directors from forever on, and these editors have set up such shows, and what has happened in this sense is the merit and competence and competence of this minister. You can't cause any events, and then turn away and say, "This is the Spanish village to me." That's not what I do, that's not the minister's business. You suggested the "Grims Act," if I may say so. The ruling coalition has accepted it and this programming council has confirmed and appointed these editors and you cannot turn away from it. This is your responsibility and this is also your responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u147	Thank you. Member Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! It is a coincidence that we are dealing with interpellation today when we are opening a renovated cultural home in Velenje, and if we were to conclude on the information that was given here about events or plans in Maribor, we could say that we were damn lucky to have finished the library in the previous term and that we have finished the cultural home until today. There is no doubt that the Minister will remain Minister unless he decides he will no longer be Minister, or perhaps President of the Government, as he did with Petty Officer. But there's no hope of success here. This minister will continue to be a minister, but this is an opportunity to talk a little bit about what has been going on over the past two years. And when you compare interpolation with black construction, let me say that in the previous term, I listened very carefully to your interpolations when you invested them. And if in this black construction we are considering whether it is necessary to legalize or remove it, yours should have broken down when you invested them, and unfortunately that was not the case. The goal was well-known and I can even conclude that you succeeded, even though they were not voted at the time, it was later reflected in the election results, but there was a lot of demagogies. There were also lies, but good, that was in the past term. Let me say that I am also one of those who does not understand the Minister or who does not understand the Minister when he speaks of the reduction of the RTV contribution. I believe that if you lower something, it takes an active approach, an active intervention in RTV contribution. Therefore, you should reduce it by a certain percentage or by a certain amount of tolars at this time, next year you will be able to reduce it by a few euros if you have a serious purpose. Just waiting for inflation to do its job is probably not enough. What if we had a deflation? What if the wages didn't grow in Slovenia? How, then, would their predicted reduction of the RTV contribution be achieved? You'd already find an excuse, as you found him now that the law is in force when the referendum is over. For the purposes of the referendum, however, more had to be said, and of course you did. And not only did you say that the contribution would be lower, you also said that order in this area would be the payment of RTV contributions. And there is no such order today. I have addressed to you the question of the Member of Parliament, and I have also received the answer. In my office, a gentleman who has been paying for the same receiver for two RTV contributions for quite some time, one through the perm, and the other through his pension, with the help of retirement benefits [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Mr Jerovšek, calm down, you have a chance to speak. You always talk, so it won't be a problem. But sometimes it would be good to keep quiet. So, there is no order in this area and something will have to be done. Of course you can say that it is not within the competence of the Ministry of Culture, but RTV is a public institution, RTV is a institution where politics certainly has an impact, if not otherwise, when you put members on the committee. We know how you put them, and we also know that -- my colleague then said, "plonk" leaves, how do you vote to get people who fit you in this office? The story of 3% has actually had a long beard. Let me also remind you this time that I was first signed under an amendment that set 3% for local, regional and student radio and television stations of particular importance. At the time, I received criticism from the Ministry, although it was led by a party member and I did not have much support in my own kind for that amendment. But, interestingly, that's when I got it in the opposition ranks where today's coalition MPs sat. Well, and even those funds, when the RTV contribution went up, weren't used to what it was supposed to be. But that's when we talked about their status. So those who have the status will get the funds. Today, funds are distributed on the basis of a call for proposals based on programmes; how they are shared is another matter. Perhaps a good analysis of who received these funds would make sense, and then a little cross-reference these results. I think we'd get interesting results and interesting information. You say that RTV is completely independent, and that when we think about what we say differently, we insult the leadership of RTV. How, then, was it possible to predict an improvement of the programme if you have no influence at all? At that time it was even on the boards to repeat the broadcasts that there would be no repetition. The repetitions are, now can be accurately predicted, if you watch TV on Friday, you can go for a walk on Sunday if you only watch Television Slovenia, because on Sundays the show is repeated, which is on Friday. So that's not true either, and that's what's left, so there are repetitions. The third parliamentary programme, how many words have been spoken in the previous term on the need to postpone the meetings of the National Assembly, that it is in the interest of democracy, that it is in the interest of the electorate and the electorate, who are then better placed to decide who to trust in the vote in the next elections, and that this is also the supervision of the executive branch by the electorate and electorate. And we stayed halfway there. We stayed halfway there because we knew precisely that this project was not easy and that it was not easy to translate it into practice; but even when we had the option, we decided differently in the National Assembly. Let me give you an example, we were sitting in one of the rooms here in Šubičeva, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the Tomšič Hall, from which direct transmission of Television Slovenia is possible, alone, the proposal to move to this hall was slightly rejected by the majority, the coalition majority. So, all of a sudden, your interest in transferring the meetings has shone to a minimum, and so it happened when we proposed to take this opportunity and to talk about the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which is a very important law, so that people and people of Slovenia can hear it and thus assess the quality of this law. But this is no longer a matter of a minister, these are relations within Parliament or also the leadership of Parliament. If we are talking about the loss, if we say they have a loss on RTV, and if we take into account the composition of the coalition, it is perfectly normal for some sports events to be replaced by some accommodation. It's cheaper, reliable, you don't have to pay for it, and you're probably rewarded for it later. With regard to the island of Blaje and your argument in response to the interpretation, I must also find out that there is no problem in the Constitutional Court, that there is no problem in the decision, in the decision that the problem is essentially in this, I hope that you would be more suited to the solution that was already adopted in 1992 and that, therefore, do not hurry, in the hope that you might not even have to do so, i.e. the invitation to put the Blaje island in management, because you may still quietly hope that it will remain the property of the Roman Catholic Church. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u149	Thank you. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I recall that shortly after we filed an intervention against Minister Simoniti, the President of the Government, Mr Janša, announced at the press conference, ensuring that this interpretation is legally unfounded, so that there is no legal basis for it. That's what you're saying here today. It's not my expression. It's the Prime Minister. So, Minister Simoniti and esteemed colleague Grimes repeat "papagai" after the Prime Minister of the Government. Interpellation may only be lodged in accordance with the law because of a violation of the Constitution or legislation. My colleague Grimes has even argued professionally that, I quote, "Interpellation in a narrower legal sense must be based on proven claims, arguments and facts that the Minister has violated either the Constitution or the law." - end of quote. That is not the case, you have already been taught by Mr Potrč today and said that what you all three are talking about is a constitutional charge. Interpellation is a special form of the Government's political responsibility and is a public issue raised by at least 10 members of the National Assembly. However, after a particularly complicated procedure, the procedure of the Constitutional Court is not only here in Parliament. But since the President of the Government has stated otherwise at the time of the intervention, it will be true, but there is no such chip in the minds of members of the coalition that the President of the Government simply does not know something or that he would not have it right. It was fun to listen to a colleague of Grims today, who modestly praised the speaker for being the main author of the RTV Slovenia Act. Now, of course, I understand better everything that has happened with regard to the consideration of the proposal for a law in the professional public, regarding the denial of the expertise of both some Slovenian experts and experts from the Council of Europe and other established and prominent persons in the field of media from Europe. Who are the director of the media from Norway, Sigve Gramstad and the legal adviser in the field of media Eve Salmon from Great Britain, but what is presented to Grims by the president of the Council of Europe Media Committee, Karol Jakubovich - nothing at all. The main media expert in Slovenia, or an expert on media behaviour in our country, Mr Grims, estimated that these expert opinions were essentially unprofessional and that I myself, as the Head of the Delegation of the National Assembly in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, had obtained them by deception. Worse still, the Head of the Media Sector of the Council of Europe, Jan Malinovski, is an expert opinion on the RTV Slovenia Act, which was drawn up on the basis of an examination from the perspective of the agreement of the European Convention on Transboundary Television, the European Convention on Human Rights, in the light of the Council of Europe's recommendation on ensuring the independence of public broadcasters and published European good practices on the Council of Europe's websites. Well, this, thank God, did not last long, because the Council of Europe had very soon received a letter from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Slovenia requiring that this expert opinion be withdrawn from the Council of Europe's websites. So much for the respect and consideration of the profession, especially in view of today's statements by Minister Simoniti, that it is a typical inducement by the LDS when we claim that arguments and concerns of the professional domestic and foreign public have been heard at the time of the adoption of the law. It is interesting how allergic the current government is to everything that is critically, argumentatively critical, but does not come from the Shentflorian Valley, which is still under the control of this current government. The opinion of the experts of the Council of Europe is contentious and irresponsible to inform the Commissioner of the Human Rights Council of our Ombudsman of the situation concerning Ambrus. Commissioner Hammaberg himself did not really know where he was coming from. President Janša even claimed last night that Commissioner Hammaberg did not even know that it was an illegal construction of the home of the Strojan family. And I'm telling you, of course, that's not the case. By the way, Stan Granda, this authority is attractive and with its will vested President of the RTV Programme Council, is recently on the 9th. The drought days of 2006 on the visit of the Council of Europe Commissioner, I was told, said: 'The Gypsy EU minister should rather manage things at home, not here.' Political culture, that's it! And this, Mr. Secretary. What is happening to the Forum of Slavic Cultures, which is supposed to connect all Slovenian countries in the area of culture? Have you really given up on him, including 30 million SITs, or are you not pleased that he may be an inappropriate person for you? It was so nice to listen to the government delegation when she visited Russia, and then the representatives of our Government at the Russian Chapel, who claimed how beautiful it was to have a common Slavic roots and that this Forum will also treat them nicely in the future. One more thing, in fact, quite a personal nature, I was myself in the '70s, you say in those lead years, a few years, young, a journalist on TV diary, and still today I have in mind the editors of that time, some upright and brave, some frightened and reverent, also frightened at the stock. Believe me, I know one of these and I recognize one today. And when I sometimes come to the RTV rooms today and I want to exchange a few opinions with someone just so politely, the people who talk tend to look around, if someone listens to us and listens to us, or maybe someone sees us talking. In short, they're acting like "we have democracy now, we have to watch what we're talking about and who we're talking to." You don't want to, Mr. Minister, no matter who is the real and main author of the RTV Slovenia Act, right under your ministry and with your direct active role and deception, this law has established some mechanisms and standards that can be recognized far away, but certainly do not lead to democratic and independent public RTV. But just write it down, that credit goes without a doubt, and the responsibility does, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u151	Thank you. Member Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! Messengers and Members, welcome! Then we met her, the interpolation. This also surprised us, especially because the media announced a year or more to all other ministers earlier than you, precisely the media that you were supposed to oversee, and the minister, in particular, announced to the ministers of Nova Slovenije. Well, don't worry, Minister, in two days' time, the minister of Nova Slovenije, for whom he introduced the interpretation, which is probably more likely than yours to succeed. If I were a "gold," I'd say in Slovenian, "If our cow dies, let's say you." However, I will say that I will not vote in favour of interpolation, because we have been involved in the adoption of legislation in Parliament for two years. And the Slovenian proverb says: "The one who holds the bag is as guilty as the one who keeps the bag." We were not the first violin, nor the authors of the laws, but we wanted to contribute to the improvement of the laws and also actively participated in the referendum campaign for public RTV. However, I must say that none of New Slovenia spoke of a lower RTV contribution, we were not so naive. It is true, however, that we were driven when we proposed coalition coordination to pay RTV contributions only to those with radio receivers and not to those with an electric counter. We are also aware that for little money there is little music, and what the program is and what the content is, depends mainly on the ability of leaders and journalists. The adoption of the law was confirmed at the referendum, and since last year or since the adoption of this law, we have been listening to how bad it is, how bad it sucks, and so on. In short, this interpolation is nothing new to us, and probably not to the minister. However, we believe that the law gives the legal possibility of independent public RTV. It was important for us to keep our promises, including that in the Media Act the financing of media is of particular importance, local, regional and student radio. These were once three percent of the public RTV contribution, which was constitutionally controversial. This has also been regulated in the Media Act, but you are now very disturbed by the expertise of the Commission, as well as the way in which money is given at the wrong time and wrong people. I would like to ask you, fellow opposition members, if you remember the times when the Commission was composed, when the President of the Commission, who was also the owner of the media and asked for these funds, did not seem to you that much at that time. In Novi Slovenija we reject the criticisms of the interpellation proponents, how everything is different in the media since Minister Simoniti, how everything is cadrated, replaced, suspended, censored, of course at the expense of the government coalition. Let me say that in New Slovenia we do not feel that anything has changed in relation to the media to New Slovenia. You could say that there's still a previous option. So we have no political influence, which is also right, and we do not interfere with autonomy, independence, expertise, professionalism. One reason for interpretation is also religious content. And for example, you're giving a dedication to the bishops in Slovenia, and you're about to drop a sports game on this account. I wonder if you've done any surveys, what the ratings of those shows were, and do you already know on the basis of these contents that there are more religious content, or are you just wasting your intolerance to people who are also following such events? That there is no Romani content, they say and report to you, Minister of Culture. That there are no Roma programs - is this opposition kidding? One month and a half when you turn on the TV, all the broadcasts are Romani content itself. Even the Pyramid yesterday, the entertainment show, poured oil on that fire. Indeed, we also imagined that the Roma content would be different. As far as the third programme is concerned, we have advocated a third parliamentary programme. The aim of this programme is to carry out meetings of the National Assembly, working bodies and, in general, what is being done. Whether it is a third programme or under these programmes, I do not know, but transfers are ongoing more or less; this may just be a start. However, today's interpolation is nothing like that, and for two years we have been listening to how the ruling coalition has aroused fear, cadres, replaced, censored, taken over power, intimidated that this is the fall of media freedom, the government paralyses, the hit of murder, is violent, it is the end of the rule of law, democracy and so on. In all of this, it also bothers us that anyone is being set up or elected to the world, to the supervisory committee or to any leading function, to challenge their entire education and their recognized abilities. I must say that you are very biased here, and because this is an interpretation against the Minister of Culture, even an uncultured one. However, that you were so unloving of culture, you showed last night when you purposely delayed the meeting of the National Assembly that Members of the Primorska could not attend the celebration at the 100th anniversary of the death of Simon Gregorčič. The author of this interpretation, the minister in the shadows, nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u153	Thank you. From this place, I must remind you that the work of Members of the National Assembly is in the framework of the legislative process and only in the second phase of the monitoring and participation of the celebration. We're moving on. On the basis of the list of applicants, the Member of the Council shall have the floor of Mr Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have to say, I'm already confused. We have a minister in the shadows, but I don't know who else is in this house, but I think that the interpretation is only going against one -- I hope you agree with the colleagues from NSI -- today against the respected Minister Simoniti, and on Friday against your colleague Drobnič. I believe this interpellation will fall, and she will go through. This is the essential difference between the two interpolations. Minister, very specific to you. In your Baha’s performance at the beginning, you said, finally came to TV Slovenia democracy. That's when I looked at Mr Grimes and he almost started smiling, but let me tell you one thing. Yesterday's show was also mentioned by my predecessor. And this show has been banned from repeating itself and its winner must no longer appear in this show despite being a winner. Tell me, is it democracy or censorship? This is a question for the 1st grade of primary school. And all the freshmen will say, "You know, this is censorship, and this is no longer democracy, this is your choice, what can and should not be done." Moving on, the government's influence on national television. The Roma program was received yesterday, Minister, correct me, if I'm wrong, about 10 million additional funds to be able to develop. Not the children's program, not the youth program, not the hearing program. Romani! What are you going to develop in their program? What you will give, I don't know, Petra Klepec to be understood, and the influence of NSI, which does not have on politics and on the policy of RTV Slovenia. Didn't your minister write in his fertility strategy what could be played and what should not be broadcast on national television? As far as I have read the strategy, it says - from now on, it will be possible to broadcast on national television only the beautiful reality of life. So, anything that shows the reality of this country under your rule will have to be hidden. Those Slovenian families that live on the brink of survival will hide and we will show a beautiful reality. One beautiful lady who goes on Sunday with a wheelchair and a big belly, because we're promoting fertility, Sunday at 7:00 in the morning at Mass, and that's probably it, but you don't have any influence. As you claim, you have no influence. And you really don't. This is also reflected in this strategy. You don't have that effect. And Mr. Secretary, a few of my predecessors mentioned the puppet theatre in Maribor. You know, if you can paint, forgive the expression, but it's purely Styrian, this National Assembly and viewers when you're on stage, you can't do me. I had the honour of being president of the Committee on Culture at the Municipality of Maribor, and I addressed to you six questions on the puppet theatre in Maribor. The answer was always the same. The puppet theatre in Maribor will not or will not respect the Cultural Tolar Act because Slovenia holds the EU presidency in 2008 and we will devote money to the reconstruction of Ljubljana's Drama so that Ljubljana can be beautiful, beautiful, wonderful when February drives from Brno to Ljubljana and will be able to look at the opera and say, uh, Slovenia is beautiful. God forbid they should be taken to Maribor because there would be nothing to show them since you've been in power. You know, these are your answers that I have before me. I may have generalized them a little bit, but if we can get out of here, that's it. Dear Minister, this is it, however you turn. That is why there is no puppet theatre because you are in power and because we are President of the EU, and therefore I ask who you swore to. Slovenia? As far as I know, yes, not the EU. You swore an oath to Slovenia. And to remind you, Maribor is in Slovenia if you don't know it. Maribor and the people living in that area are in Slovenia. Maybe that's a finding for you. If this is a finding for you, then please, we have more reason to resign. And there's another thing about denationalisation in Styria or Maribor, because it's where I come from. Not long ago, I asked you a question about the building on Winarski Street 14. Then you vehemently and cleverly realized that there were only three such buildings, that it was a cultural monument under the rule of another minister, was also defined as a cultural monument, and when you came to power, you said, no, but that is no longer a cultural monument, and we will now give it to the Minister of Education, whether he is suitable or not. That's how you behaved to properties in Styria. We'll give it to you. Someone just said you had a good morning and you said, "Now I'll give it to you." Although he's not suitable. It's a cultural monument, a respected minister. You gave up the cultural monument. And you're not the culture minister who's supposed to defend these cultural monuments. No, you gave him up. It's no longer cultural, let's get rid of it. But who did you give it to? That's the most interesting thing. The first person to enter this facility was not the Minister of Education to see whether the facility was suitable for the use of the school system or for the secondary agricultural school, as indicated in the committee. But no, they were church dignitaries who came and said, "Ah ha, there'll be a picture up here," not anyone, but him personally. And I didn't mean you, Minister, one another. I don't see where there's a pattern here where the preservation of cultural heritage is. Here's some of your instincts and some of your butter. And if you could fool anyone else before that, you can't fool me. Even with respect to the puppet theater in Maribor, you can't get me. So you went somewhere else to spend the money. Where you're at home. And it's not just corruption, it's something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u155	Thank you. There's a MEP with a word. Franz Gniedarsich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A respected minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! Surely the interpolation of the opposition against the Minister of Culture is a reflection of the opposition's view of its conduct. In doing so, I do not think that this interpolation has the opportunity to succeed, because it will simply not be possible to gather enough votes, even if DeSUS would join this interpolation. However, I would like to say and point out that we do not see things as very black and white as we are trying to show today in the debate. On one side of the opposition, which sees everything black, and, of course, on the other hand, colleagues from a position that sees everything brilliant. Well, that's certainly not the case. It is certainly useful to talk today about the content of the Ministry of Culture's activities, because there is no doubt that the Law on RTV is not brilliant, nor is it a good Law on Lipica, because if that were the case, there would be no reflection by the Constitutional Court and there would be, for example, as bad readings as we can today by the International Committee on Lipica, which lists in its letter as much as 10 times that the Minister does not speak the truth when he mentions the details of this cultural monument. In this respect, I hope that the Minister will act and try to feel a little bit for the ears if they have no evidence that he is truly lying or stating false information. So much for that. Surely also the RTV program is bad, there is no doubt here, for promised less money we also got a worse program, even though there was no dramatic reduction in subscription. It was promised to be a reduced subscription, but it wasn't. And it was promised to be a great program that didn't exist. The programme is bad, by the way, I am not nearly related to Mrs Žnidaršičeva, who runs the show or programme of the Pyramid, so that there are no misunderstandings because some in the country have connected or even said that she is supposed to be my daughter. I'm sure it's not, and that's why I'm not sad that we understand each other. I must say that it is certainly good that this debate is, because the Minister of Culture will have to think about his work in the future, and I expect him to be careful that he does not experience the same perceptions as we can hear them today in this debate. And from this point of view, I would like to say that we, too, have had comments in the Lipica Act, which have not been taken into account, as our comments were generally not taken into account, and that is why we voted differentially at that time. We can have such a majority that we can adopt any law that does not require a qualified majority, even without us. This makes it so much easier for us to think in our own way and try to say it, and it is the same today. It's not the ministry's brilliant operation, it's not great laws, there's no better program on RTV, everything's not going well with Lipica. This is the truth, we must as the coalition that brought these laws through, take in knowledge and not think about doing the same in the future when we decide on such important things. And there's no doubt that the law has granted us RTVS. In this regard, I have no problem admitting it, and in this sense it is not good to try to show something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u157	Thank you. The Minister has signed up for this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you a few questions that have arisen, and I'd like to give you a brief answer. Mrs Ambassador Tavševa regarding Jelen's Žleb, as I have obtained information, this year the Ministry of Culture is funding the following monuments of NOB in Gonjač in Brda, Žirovnica in Gorenjska and Radlje in the municipality. If the congregation or anyone else is to apply for the renewal of Jelen’s Śleb, I have no doubt that the project will be supported. So, as Mrs Tavševa noted that there was an accident in Jelen's Zleb or that this monument is failing, but we have not received an appropriate declaration on which to deal with it, and I believe that this monument, which we all know of its meaning, would not be given the right or at least the right means. Mr Gulič about the company of Maria. So, the thing is, the owner of the Furmanic Station 3 monument checked in. This company applied for the invitation to tender and, of course, the funds for the renewal of this monument were granted accordingly. In the invitation to tender, the Ministry of Culture, as I would say, takes into account the provenance of the one asking for the restoration of this monument. Mr Ptroch, who has troubled my introduction regarding my response to the interpretation. I would just say that it is very clear in the Rules of Procedure that the question of interpretation must be clearly and unequivocally raised. That's what I've been up against. But the fact that the interpretation is legitimate, I didn't ask questions like that. I have not discredited the Ambassador of Shirtz, I have merely cited the Commission's decision to combat corruption, which has found what I have, of course, counted. With regard to the fact that I believe that there are many things in interpretation that are unworthy, I just wanted to illustrate that, of course, the basis that this interpretation has formed is also, of course, to a certain extent, at least for me, unworthy. With regard to the RTV, the Member of the Commission's contribution to social transfers. Of course, the RTV contribution has not increased for two and a half years, and this must be remembered. And that's a big difference from when it got bigger every year, sometimes twice a year. Social transfers, however, are regularly coordinated and these things cannot, of course, be compared. As regards the island of Blej, which has been problematic by several Members, also Mr Potrč. It is that we have extended the Treaty on the Management of the Blej island until the Constitutional Court's decision, and then the call will be made and, of course, we will put the best bidder in charge of this island. Mr Kontić, who said that they are opening a cultural home in Velenje today, if I understood him correctly, and that it is fortunate that this happened in the previous term. I would like to say that given that you attribute such extraordinary power and will to me, there were 17 million in 2003, 30 million in 2004 for a cultural home and 68 million in 2005 for the opening of a cultural home in Velenj. I also have problems with the contribution, I will once again, I do not want to repeat what a real reduction means. I think you're all getting a little confused about this and you know it very clearly. Once again, freeze your wages for two years, and you'll see if your income has actually fallen. But you forget that, and I will say this again and again, the law we passed on RTV makes it possible for the socially disadvantaged not to pay a contribution. And these, as I said, are 500 families in Slovenia that do not pay. You forget that a lot. With regard to 3% of programmes, it is of particular importance that a new or good analysis of this should be made. Yes, it is always envisaged that analyses should be made for the previous year and, on the basis of this, the appropriateness of applicants applying for subsidies or for funds is determined. I hope this analysis will also be done. Mrs Beblereva spoke of great experts from abroad. I am surprised to see these great experts, who are only officials of a certain rank in the EU, including Mr Jakubovic. We also have a number of people at the Ministry who cooperate competently as high officials, i.e. in certain bodies. Nothing smaller than Jacobovich, only in other committees. This is, as I would say, the man who wanted to visit me with his colleague, and I accepted them, especially to force their vision of what it would look like. While in domestic Poland, which is after the rating of freedom of the press in a deep place, I will not say which, but in 50, there was probably an industrious, obedient gentleman who never dared to publish any law on RTV on the Council of Europe's websites. I would also like to say that there is nothing wrong with the publication of the law online in Europe. It's a mistake to publish the wrong version of these great experts. That's the problem, the wrong version, wrong. That was their problem. About the Forum of Slavonic Cultures. The Slovenian Cultures Forum was adopted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mr Zagorac, who was talking about Puppet Theatre, said I couldn't paint it and if I knew where Maribor was. I think I have shown some affection for Maribor, and I personally respect the artistic potentials that are there. I think they're really great and good, and that the Minister's direct force is that, even if he has so much power, it helps to make the best of them. We've already, I don't know, five times, six times said the same thing about Puppet Theatre. I don't know if it's still necessary. However, it is important to know that Ljubljana is also in Slovenia and that it is not a matter of any corruption of the Minister, because the Minister has nothing of it, but a great deal of complications and difficulties to move and start any renovations, including through some lobbyists who have the logic of making it as difficult as possible to succeed, even though it is in the public interest. We may even talk publicly about these things, about this logic: as bad as possible. So, in Ljubljana, please, honourable Member, if you go to the Modern Gallery and take a good look at it, also look at the Opera, you will see the situation they are working in. It is not that we do not respect the Cultural Tolar Act, but in this cultural tolar are all those institutions that I have mentioned, and many others that cannot come at all. And there's no aversion to puppet theater. But I insist on the same issue that those people who have worked the most problems and talked most about the puppet theater, for this puppet theater, I say, in the last ten years, when they had scissors and canvas in their hands, they have not done enough. With their energy, with their help and with the right priorities, also the mayor, who ruled two mandates, could carry out this necessary reconstruction of the puppet theatre. About Lipica. Mr Žnidaršič spoke about this international association, for which we can never know how many members he has - there can be only three, but, as I have already mentioned, among them is Mr Edwin Tavčar, whose well-intention I strongly doubt. He's been working for many years at Leipzig Cobbler. In those days, the Leipzig was in desperate condition in many areas where he was in charge. I know some pamphlet - I don't know if we're talking about the same thing - which is circulating and full of instigation and non-truths and can easily be answered. However, the circulating pamphlet will not be answered if it is in public, but we will be happy to do so. However, I think that they adhere to that rule, which I also spoke of in my opening half-time contribution, where I mentioned that they were allowed - in one week it was written - to promote democracy, which is unusual, so that the placement of unrealistic and approximate information is also allowed, which, of course, I cannot agree with. And in particular, with regard to Kobilna Lipica, these people have served to spread untrue and approximate information. And I'm definitely against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u159	Minister, thank you for your answers, too. And your answers triggered quite a few replicas. Ambassador Lovtišar Bebler was the first to sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, Mr. Secretary, you didn't disappoint me. I knew that you would not be able to resist answering your own, arrogant, ignorant and sublime way of talking about the experts of the Council of Europe. I think we can agree here that this is completely unworthy, such a way of answering. However, Mrs Pirkovič, the Secretary of State, who is very familiar with the structure of the Council of Europe and how such expert groups operate, could teach you how things are going there and which experts come to the point where the Council of Europe recognises them as experts and also uses their expertise. It is true, however, that this group of experts unfortunately did not have our expert, Mr Grimes. That's what I have to tell you here. And I did not say that he was hanged on websites or published a law, but a professional opinion on this law. That's a little different, though. However, the expert opinion was very critical and very bad for us or for you, more specifically, it will last longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u161	Thank you. We continue with the replicas. Reploco has a colleague, Boštjan Zagorc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, Za-go-rac, you don't have to swallow the letters, Za-go-rac, writing loudly and clearly, if you already swallow the saliva, you don't have to swallow the letters. But it's in front of C at the end. Well, yes, I believe you've shown your affection for Maribor, maybe somewhere on Lent, but I doubt it's there because the Maribors were expecting us. By saying that nothing has been done in the last ten years, you have disappointed at least three people, four people in this Parliament, who really tried to make the government respect the law and the puppet theater bring to Maribor. And let me just say a word about a media fund, so-called, or calls. You know, what's interesting is that the most interesting thing about this is that one house from Maribor, which at the time of the local election campaign was showing you and Janša, and maybe another one from SDS, and that was the end. And it's interesting that they just got the most money and it's interesting that the most money they've got is mostly "fark claws" or media. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u163	Thank you. And the final replica of the Minister's performance. Comrade Slavko Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u164	Mr. Vice President! I would like to speak on behalf of the motioners at this Minister's appearance.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u165	Comrade Slavka Gaber, I can give you a replica right now. Or you'll take advantage of it, or I'll give you another word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u166	Give it to me later.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u167	Good. Then the Minister has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I apologize to Mr Zagorec, Zagorac. Excuse me! Mrs. Bebler's. Yes, it is, the expert opinion you're talking about, I know him, and I must say that this expert opinion was also made on the basis of the latest version of the RTV Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u169	Thank you. According to the rules, colleague Slavko Gaber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. There are some things that I think are very noticeable here today. First of all, Mr Simoniti is constantly moving away from the fundamental fact of the famous discussion on the contribution, because nobody here is discussing what inflation brings over two years. These powerful calculations in the Ministry's paper really praised a worthwhile business, but completely unnecessary. Everyone understands that. What you are avoiding is the answer to a simple question and the people in this country know very clearly what the basic message of your campaign was. The basic message of your campaign was that TV, to make the contribution ever lower, you will make this TV quality and very cheap. You don't do any of this and you don't explain to people here, and you don't even tell us that you've been explaining to people around you that a share of inflation is going to cost you a TV contribution. You don't have to make fun of me. Your posters were in exceptional size and amount alerted throughout the country to these two things. If we were able to admit this, of course, we would have reacted significantly less nervously to foreign experts. This government is something very similar to the reactions observed by the Milosevic regime when it came to an end. All that foreigners have said, which they have warned that is not appropriate in that country, is what the great leader has responded to and his aides with the thesis that those who claim it for the first time do not know what they are talking about and, of course, are malicious. This rhetoric is incredibly frighteningly similar to what you're using. You have some experience with that previous regime, just like the rest of us. And to me, I admit, the most worrying thing about all this story is your actions, is the symptom of this power. This power is painful for the feeling that yes, not only is there a final truth, although it is worse, this authority knows what is true, and there is no other way it can be. Therefore, my dear fellow Simonita, it would not be particularly appropriate if we were less confident of experts who believe that they were doing this work with good intentions at home. My colleague Grimes has declared himself an expert in the field of media. And I believe him that he was doing it in good faith, I don't doubt it. But he's not an expert in this area, but he's very invisible. Like a historian, he's not an expert in chemistry, he's not an agronomist, and probably sociologists can't be doctors. That's clear. But if he is such a great expert, how can you speak so highly of the alleged, petty, insignificant officials of the Council of Europe who are so low that you can't even look so deep down that it would be worth saying anything about them, which would sound like a confession that they might know something. A colleague sitting next to you is working in Europe as a person who knows something. I have not had the opportunity in Europe and have followed it in similar circles in which you are now moving, to listen to such an underestimating attitude towards the so-called official office. Can you think, the people who came to my colleague Simonita and Mr Grims, an expert, to explain how we might have settled this area were so insignificant that it was pretty bad. Some elementary modesty wouldn't hurt anything. At that time, we might not have received the answer we received. At that time, you would not think it funny to mutilate a person who was first signed in this interpretation. If you pretend not to malign her, and you've repeated this five times in today's performance, then of course I'll have to question your credibility at some other point. The more I listen to you, the more I am convinced that Professor Križman, former mayor of Maribor, former rector of the University of Maribor, is not one of two, one of whom is lying at the point we spoke about this morning. So he's not lying, he's my belief. You're making me feel more confident with each performance that he's not. But someone's lying.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u171	Thank you. I am re-engaging the Minister in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u172	Thank you very much. With regard to the experts from the European Union who have been with me, yes, from the Council of Europe, who have been to me in relation to this law, I have already said. They were talking about a model that no European country had decided on. And they themselves behaved quite in a way that I didn't think was appropriate. I respect people, but I believe in the discussions that I can only cooperate with those in whom opinions can be treated equally and we recognise equality. Nothing else. Secondly, no underestimation, but not as Members of the Council of Europe or emissaries, were in private arrangements. As far as I've said it five times, yes, twenty more must be repeated, because we've been listening to one and the same thing all day. You've already said 33 times for others about this famous RTV contribution.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u173	Thank you. We continue the debate. I'm supposed to have a word with my colleague, Joseph Bajc. He's not here. Mr Ziherl, my fellow Members, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. The Minister has already found that some things are repeated and repeated today, so what high added value could not be added to the debate, but would recall today's special date. Today, many decades ago, it was just one of the greatest holidays. And these memories of association also bring me back to a place called Eggs, and if I go along with this association, I come up with the notion of a rotten egg, and maybe this interpolation is just like a rotten egg, because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u175	Comrade Zicherl, can we stick to the content?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u176	I'm hanging in there.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u177	No, don't hang in there.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u178	Interpellation was put in at a certain time for the needs of local elections, so now it has cleared up a little. And yet the proponents could have been so honest, but they would have taken their colleague, who prevented some of our colleagues from leaving Primorska yesterday, because this holiday could only have been last night because it was tied to a date. Then there was much talk about personnel and personnel changes or changes. I also experienced it myself when I worked in a factory, when Good Year was the owner of our factory for about three years, but with some rationalisation in the coming years they fired up to 200 employees in a soft way. Then there was a lot of talk about the fall of ratings. Given the increasing number of electronic media, mobile phones, personal computers, games and so on. Of course, viewers, especially young people, are going to these new media and ratings are falling. Personally, even though I have over 50 channels, if the price of the week was free, I can barely put together a programming scheme on these 50 channels for the whole week of watching. This also causes the remote to turn into a typewriter at home because we keep typing to get a better show if we watch. Neither are we most satisfied with our home, nor with our satellite program. Then the decline in reading certain publications. It wasn't just Del's reading, it fell to other newspapers, magazines, and so on, say, Youth. Also around the world because of the emergence of new media, because people are spending time on more and more intense life, either with the media or the work and so on, probably is running out of time to defend themselves. Well, it makes sense that some media readings are falling. Let them imagine for themselves why. If it's just some people, because it's falling in general, then it's not some interpolation point. I also believe that there is some connection between the applicant, because this business connection, which has now been cut off, has been mentioned and something has to be done. Then there's an eyewitness in connection with Kobilna Lipica. As far as I can remember, about 10, 15 years ago, there were always problems with the mare. By being under previous ministers, they were only bigger under previous governments. Mr Minister has already said or mentioned some of the measures that have taken care of at least the main point of the cobial, namely, horses, for better horse condition, for better conditions, for the regulation of stables and infrastructure, which I hope will provide better conditions or better conditions for lipicance. I was surprised, too, by several initiatives or by the International Association for Lipica, and when I started looking for where it was registered, who was involved, etc., I found nothing. What kind of association is this, on what basis? Then there's evidence around the island. He's still standing there, like, in this state, no harm done, no go, no go, no go back, nothing special. Lowering the subscription. I don't know why it's such a bitch for our good wages to cut something that's low. For those who cannot pay, however, the Minister said, for those who are socially threatened, that around 500 households do not pay the subscription. Then it is clear to the Minister to defend a single tax rate. Where is this single tax rate? She was in the debate and discussed her. We have also met ourselves in various committees, such as our European Union Affairs Committee, when it meets with other European committees, we have been given different information. In the Czech Republic and I think even in Slovakia, the books were very taxed. And where there were 80 crowns of books, there are now 400 crowns. And if the single tax rate has not been applied, then it is no longer an obvious interpretation. Finally, I can see that interpellation is more like a complaint made by dissatisfied TV viewers and should be sent somewhere else. Maybe they're disappointed because the nationalist doesn't spin interesting Mexican sequels. Maybe they're disappointed because if I'm right, Diego and Paloma aren't getting married until the '70s, and they're not supposed to be on TV for 200 days. And as I said at the beginning, television like TV Fiftyseven channels and nothing on, sings Bruce Springstin. And that's all over the world, people complain on TV. There's more channels. They're more dissatisfied. [[...]] [[A laugh.]] Maybe there's no championship league. [[...]] I'd like to remind my colleagues of the U.S. Hockey League. This year's season at Washington Capitals plays Autumn Angie Kopitar, and not only does he play, but he achieves great success. And it overshadowed even some of the great, already established, stars. And it would be very nice to get at least a weekly checkup. In the reports we sometimes see the insert of his successful trays and goals. Mostly because of all this interpolation, I won't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u179	Comrade Ziherl, I'd like to say thank you for your contribution to the debate, but you won't mind if I don't. A fellow Bosniak Zagorac has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Madam President. My procedural proposal, unlike my predecessor, will be pretty serious, because if a minister has people like that to defend him, then God help him, according to yours. But if anyone in this house has egg problems, either they rot, or whatever, let's not be burdened by the other 90 Members, because that's his personal problem. If she has history problems, don't burden us, please, history was common, we couldn't choose her, so don't make fun of her because she was yours. As far as ratings are concerned, why ratings are falling. I believe that ratings are falling because there are too many SDS, NSIs, SLS and DeSUS on TV.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u181	At best, colleague Zagorac, I don't know what was procedural here, but [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] We continue the debate. Mr Mikolić, a fellow Member of Parliament, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! Dear President, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Members of New Slovenia are working towards such a social recognition of culture in the field of culture that it will be a creative value and the way of individual and national self-knowledge. Culture is not a reservation for artists and other cultures, but requires in its creative, acceptable and indirect dimension the participation of everyone, because culture, together with its identity, can preserve only the entire nation. The right to enjoy a quality culture and to work in the field of culture is open to all citizens, not just the people of larger cities. We therefore support measures that financially help municipalities rebuild and build cultural homes, rebuild cultural monuments, support more appropriate or transparent distribution of public money in the field of culture and support the development of culture in rural areas. In the area of education and information, we support the training of sufficient management staff to manage public cultural institutions, to establish and maintain the best possible online presentation of living cultural image, to keep the public regularly informed of the cultural activities of the Slovenian minority in neighbouring countries and minority communities in Slovenia. We seek to increase the accessibility of the best Slovenian beauty, visual, music and film creations, both on websites and on permanent electronic media, as well as in the development of libraries, information and cultural social centres. In the New Slovenia Group, we insist on the requirement that state television and also commercial stations which have concessions for the award of programmes in the territory of Slovenia comply with the prescribed provisions regarding the amount of the original Slovenian programme and that they buy quality foreign films and shows that will enrich people, encourage them to be human and noble, not violent, hate, promiscuity as a regular way of life and regulating human relations. We are aware that efforts alone are not enough. In Novi Slovenija we support the goal of earmarking 2% of the state budget for culture. By adopting a culture of favourable tax legislation and in the budget we have stopped the trend of declining funds for culture. In this context, it is worth mentioning that the Ministry of Culture in 2005 is the first to be able to implement all procedures for the reimbursement of funds from the European Regional Development Fund. Taking into account the presentation of the work done and the achievements made in the field of culture in the past year, of 27 November 2006, in the New Slovenia Group, we estimate that our efforts in the field of culture have been made to the point that there is no need to support the interpretation of Minister Simoniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u183	Thank you. Member Janko Weber has the floor. [[He's not here.]] I give my word to Ambassador Bogdan Barovich. [[He's not here.]] Member Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, Mr Minister with co-worker! Until today, I thought the easiest thing to do was drop out of the exam. As I do not have a long professional political mileage, and as I accompany this debate today, or more or less, an attack on the work of the Minister, I note that it is also extremely possible to dissect or attack the Minister. I regret only that the words used by some colleagues and fellow Members literally are not designed as appropriate for this assembly. My contribution will be modest. Most of all, today was about the Law on RTV Slovenia, how bad the law is, how it is not implemented and so on. My colleagues and colleagues have already said that we have clearly supported this law in the coordination phase. We had, of course, as has already been said, a different solution in terms of collecting or cashing contributions, but the coalition agreement binds four coalition partners and we agreed and we said that the law is suitable for dealing with it. We took the law here, we accepted it in this assembly, then we had the veto, and we re-adopted it. We went to a referendum, and so did the electorate and the electorate said the law was appropriate. With regard to the referendum, allow only one piece of information - too bad I don't have a picture of it today, I suppose there was no talk. I was extremely pleased that the night we waited on TV and monitored the results, that we could also see on TV histograms, which also showed that 90% of the voters of New Slovenia voted in favour of the law. By doing so, I want to prove that Nova Slovenija was, was and is, at this point, an extremely credible coalition partner. This has certainly not been discussed today, but I would like to point out this thing and I think I can say that Nova Slovenije or that the voters of Nova Slovenije have also somehow saved this law that we have today. Therefore, we will also pay attention to the fact that the law will be implemented until every last word or letter. Since I have said that Nova Slovenija is a credible coalition partner, we understand the coalition contract as a large starting point, not only as a legal agreement, but therefore the honourable Minister has my support for the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u185	Thank you. Member Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u186	I don't know, considering maybe I'll have a longer discussion at 8:00 if I'm right. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u187	Colleague Eva Irgle, go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u188	I'm just asking if the meeting ends at 8:00. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u189	I gave you my word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u190	Good. Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for being so kind. Ms Majda Širca proposed and, of course, introduced an intervention against the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti. More than obviously, given all the debates we have heard so far in the multi-hour debate, this is primarily about a highly personalised attack on the minister. Because the fact is, in two years of the ministry, this minister has carried out the right and well-functioning projects, which you now read out in the interpretation as harmful to the country and the fear that is causing the population of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to point out that I was very disappointed over the recklessness of perhaps not the wise move by the opposition or the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia or by the proponents, the proponents of this interpretation, because they chose a minister for the first interpretation, who, a year and a half ago, was confirmed by the people's confidence in his correct decisions and work at the referendum on the Law on RTV Slovenia, which is now one of the main features of this interpretation. Of course, it is necessary for the proponents to recognize courage, this courageous decision, because to interpel someone who has shown all the support of the people, it must be a bold act, unless you may consider in the LDS that the clear will of the people in the referendum is not binding on you or that this referendum will does not apply to you and simply ignore it. In fact, this can be partly, including the emotional impact of the applicants, which has been dragging for two years since the change of power occurred, especially the emotional impact when we are talking about media space and cultural content, this emotional impact can be understood on one hand. During all this time, there has been a severe blow that anyone else can discuss the content competently and professionally, and in particular decide on these content and not only experts from the Peace Institute but also from the FDV and from different civil society. She also explained in her introduction that there is a great deal of fear of the Minister of Culture, who in his actions destroys the RTV institution and intimidates journalists and journalists. Of course, I cannot take such thinking seriously. We know examples from your political action or the management of RTV Slovenia and interventions into editorial policy. Let me mention just the case of Jozet Možina, there has been a lot of talk about this, but this was a serious intervention in the autonomy of journalistic freedom of reporting, because this journalist was prevented from broadcasting his Silence - the power of survival to the public. And here, of course, I am justifiably interested in where you were at the time proposing this interpretation or why you did not then demonstrate and strongly object to such decisions. You keep repeating and talking about editorial interventions that are supposed to be taking place in this policy. I would therefore be very pleased if you could explain to me how your Secretary-General, Meta Vesel Valentinčič, addressed the responsible editor, Del Petr Jančič, an interview with your mayoral candidate, Mr Jožef Kunič, in the Saturday annex and even threatened with a court ban on the issue of Saturday's annex unless this interview was published. When a person reads and hears such things, he is appalled, and then he thinks that fear is spreading throughout this country, and he really becomes afraid of us stepping back to a time when under pressure only what was pleasing to the red suit was being published. And obviously you're still doing this today, not just when you were in power. He will say that John knows what he is learning. And you seem to be handling it very well. Let us consider another example that occurred in April 2002, when, due to political pressure from the summit, it is said, your pressure, Mr Lipusček, then responsible editor of the information programme, had to prevent the publication of the price of a government aircraft, which your Government was buying at that time. This is, in my opinion, unacceptable interference with editing and, above all, suggests media control on your part. This all happened in 2002 and not in 2006. And here I am once again wondering why today's interpellations, which so vehemently strike at everything, especially after Minister Vask Simoniti, did not protest against such unacceptable interferences in the autonomy of journalists. Maybe I'm doing some kind of injustice at the moment and he's talking, but unfortunately we haven't heard or read it. But thank God some journalists responded, and Mr Lipuscek was then called for a resignation. However, there have also been complications in this case, as your then President of the Council of RTV Slovenia, Mr Janez Kocijancič, as a sworn lover of truth and the right of the public to information, has even proposed that the Council vote on the conclusion that Lipusčko's intervention was not censored. So much for freedom of speech, which is now supposed to be significantly less. Among other things, the representative of the Slovenian Association of Journalists to the Council of RTV Slovenia, Mr Peter Jančič, who said, while he himself was monitoring the purchase of a government aircraft, that all the data was accurate and that the Government did not deny it, did not respond to these figures and that they did not really understand why they should not have made it public. And he also said that we have a problem in the Council of RTV Slovenia, because some in it in 2002 are more government than the Government itself. Mr Uroš Slak, as an RTV journalist at the time, also discussed this issue and said that from this event the viewer's ratings are dropping, but not because people would not want to see it, but because, as he said, people simply don't believe the published information anymore. That's what the journalist said. And he also said that this is not the first such example of behavior or censorship, but this case just circles it all together and is dripping over the edge. You also give the Minister a direct political influence on the public institution and party political control over the management and management of the public institution. Of course it's more than funny. Any influence is prohibited by a new law which allows only representatives of civil society, national communities and employees of RTV Slovenia to occupy important functions in the institution. Of course, it certainly was different before, as one of the highest functions in the public office was held by a former prominent political official, who you yourself placed in this place. It is also clear to the Minister that RTV Slovenia no longer tolerates the Champions League. This has been heard many times today, as it were. As a soccer fan herself, not only Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem, who loves this topic, I now watch the games on another TV, although I might also want this league of champions to be on national television. However, accusing the minister of being guilty of not being a football player on national television is ridiculous and unrealistic. The Minister is not an editor, he is not a director and cannot, but in particular he must not interfere with the editorial policy of the public institution and its purposes. I believe, however, that, given that Mrs Orzmova has, before and on the questions already being sent, repeatedly reiterated that the Minister is guilty, that the League of Champions is no longer on national television, and I believe that the lady in question, as well as the others, are hard to understand and understand, have all too obviously intervened too often in editorial policy and the functioning of this institution and the logic of non-interference are difficult to understand. You are also talking about the fact that people on RTV are dissatisfied, since we have a new law on RTV Slovenia, from which we have a new authority and from which we have a new minister, Dr. Simoniti. However, do not tell how dissatisfied these same people were in 2002 when their rights were violated by the Constitution, when they made it clear that they had problems in operation, and that they were in an unsustainable position on RTV Slovenia. Not to mention that your Mile Šetinc at the time even suggested that articles be deleted from the statute of the public institution RTV Slovenia, which define the working world as the body of the institution and its functioning. These are, of course, clear examples that show a completely different picture than you want to show today, as well as in all these two years. At the end, I would like to say that this debate is actually very interesting, because it says a lot about the interpelling proponents in particular. More than once today, it has been said that the Minister is vilified by the use of inappropriate expressions in interpretation. It's hard to judge by myself, but if you think of words like generality, flatulence, it's been said before for graves, ugly words, then I can't know what to say about words like executioners, slaves, liars, scoundrels, arrogant. All of this has been heard today from a branch of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, and this has been repeated and I think that such words certainly do not belong in the National Assembly, at all from experts such as the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. That is what I would say; when Mr Potrce spoke of the fact that the Minister should not speak again about the irregularity of doing business with Mrs Maja Shirca, that we all have black stains in our lives. True, we all do, but some of these stains have also left their positions. In this case, we can't even talk about it. That seems unreasonable to me. I believe that the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, is doing his work well, properly and in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in particular. And that's why I'm not going to support the request for his release. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-29-SDZ4-Redna-22.ana.u191	Thank you, too. With the debate of Mrs Eva Irgle, we will conclude today's part of the session. We'll continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. Until then, good-bye and good-bye tomorrow at 10 a.m.
