ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 21st session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Milan M. Squeakle, Ljubo Germich, mag. Your Clavora, mag. Janez Kramberger, Dr. Marko Pavliha from 3 p.m. to 3 p.m., Mrs. Breda Pečan, Cyril Testen until 1 p.m. and Mr. Janko Weber. We're moving to 23. Agenda item - Defence of the Proposal for a Law on the Promotion of the Republic of Slovenia for the Obligations of the Public Agency for the Transport of Railways of the Republic of Slovenia under the Titles of the Loans for the purpose of providing own funds for the Republic of Slovenia in the years 2006-2009 for projects to be implemented under the Investment Programme, co-financed by the European Union and for the financing of domestic projects to be implemented for the purpose of ensuring safety in rail transport. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Here you go, Mr. Minister of Transport, mag. John Christmas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u2	Dear Mr President, honourable Members and Members, I wish you a good day! The proposed guarantee law aims to provide the missing 99,692 billion tolls in the period 2006 to 2009, of which to ensure its own participation in European projects 72,097 billion tolars, then for the implementation of priority projects on 5 and 10 corridors 22,794 billion tolars, the implementation of other domestic projects that are necessary and are not financed by the European Union, is for good 4 billion tolars, and the rehabilitation of extraordinary events that took place in 2003, 2004 and 2005, of 800 million tolars. An essential part of the programme that this law allows to implement is the fulfilment of the international obligations of the State and the use of the European Phare funds, cohesion, TNT, Interreg. By ensuring our own participation in co-financing common European projects on public rail infrastructure, we will achieve the following objectives: by modernising the existing Divača-Koper line, we will increase the current track passivity by 53% and capacity by 76%; by preparing investment and project documentation and by purchasing land for the construction of the new Divača-Koper line, conditions will be provided for the acquisition of the construction permit and the construction of the new railway; by electrifying and reconstructing the Prague-Hodoš line, the target speed will be reached up to 160 kilometres per hour, the permissible load in category D-4, and the increase in the transit and transport capacity of the railway. Next, updating the signal-safety and TK devices on the 5th corridor, especially at the Divača-Koper and Prague-Ormož lines, will ensure greater traffic safety, reduce traffic and maintenance costs and adapt equipment to European requirements. Increase speed to 160 kilometers per hour on the Ljubljana-Maribor route. The introduction of the ERTMS/ETCS system will ensure the unbundling of signal security devices or engine requirements that will be equipped with an ERMTS device. With the introduction of the GSMR, unification of radio links will be achieved in accordance with the requirements of the European Union for interoperability of the system. A higher level of safety will be achieved through remote management of the system of stable electrical traction devices, interoperability and increased availability of the entire public rail infrastructure network will be ensured. The optimal location of the railway connection between Trieste and Divaco will be determined, and this is the so-called Interreg 3A project. Professional bases for the marketing of free spatial capacity at railway stations will be developed and the Revita Interreg 3B pilot project will be implemented. The second part of the programme relates to the implementation of so-called domestic projects, which we will carry out only with our own resources, without co-financing from European funds. With the implementation of the domestic projects proposed for funding under the guarantee law, we will achieve the following objectives in the period until the end of 2009: increasing the level of safety at the level crossings of the road by automatedisation, termination and renewal of level crossings. In 2006 and 2007, 41 level crossings will be regulated and 53 more are expected by the end of 2009. Then remove the slow-duty rides to restore the extended sections of the railway lines and the fixed tracks. Renovation of the railways Koshana-Gornje Lying, then renovation of the railways and tracks at the Maribor station. Next. The provision of a permissible load in the category of at least D4 on the fifth and tenth corridor is for the rehabilitation of the support walls of the Roman spa, the rehabilitation of the Medno bridge, the rehabilitation of the city over Drava. Then improve safety for road users in dangerous places so far, remedy the deficiencies in inspection decisions. Then ensure safe entry and exit of passengers in traffic. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , construction of stations, platforms, reduction of negative environmental impacts due to the implementation of traffic through the resolution of the ILO decisions issued, the environmental inspectorate related to the implementation of the environmental law and the production of strategic noise maps, with a view to determining the area’s burden, for the implementation of rail transport, the timely preparation of project and technical documentation for new projects and the production of studies of investment project documentation necessary for the application of the co-financing project from the European Funds. [[...]] The objectives that we will achieve through the implementation of the projects envisaged are indeed to meet the requirements of the European Union for the interoperability of equipment with the European system, and to ensure the necessary safety and environmental requirements in accordance with domestic legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was considered by the Transport Committee as the parent working body. I ask the Committee member, Mr Srečko Hvac, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u4	Your Honor! Nice greetings to the Minister and colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 16th urgent meeting, on 18.10.2006, the Transport Committee considered a proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia on the obligation of the Public Railway Agency to provide credits for the provision of its own participation in the Republic of Slovenia in 2006 to 2009 for projects implemented under the Investment Programme co-financed by the European Union and for the financing of domestic projects to be carried out in order to ensure railway safety. The draft law was submitted to the procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which proposed an urgent procedure. This was also decided by the College of the President of the National Assembly and adopted at its meeting on 13.10.2006 a decision to consider the proposal following an urgent procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Finance, the public railway agencies, the Slovenian Railway Holding and the legal and regulatory services were invited to the agenda. As already stated in the opening presentation of the proposal, the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia of 99,692 billion Slovenian tolars is 72,097 billion for the co-financing of so-called European projects and 22,794 billion tolars for domestic projects. We have also received a written opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service. Slovenian railway infrastructure, for which it can be said, has been very neglected for many years or even decades, and the situation, as it is, is a reflection of the relationship. We have a large number of slow rides, a poor track pass, and an inadequate fall pressure. The national programme, which was adopted in the mid-1990s, was implemented in less than one third, a major project that was successfully implemented and is finally only a new route of Murska Sobota-Hodoš, and no new construction of the second track of Divaca Koper was carried out from major or major projects, which should have been done in 2000. With insufficient resources for domestic and European projects in recent years, the public agency has found itself in a very unfavourable position. Some projects already approved by the European Union and even funds already prepared or directed could not continue because there was not enough resources for our own participation. Some of the domestic projects financed by the Republic of Slovenia have also been halted. Which could lead to these projects being completely halted so that some funds would have to be recovered. The other thing is, however, the danger is that such a situation could start to deteriorate safety in rail transport, which is, of course, unacceptable. In addition, in the absence of sufficient funds, we could be in a situation where we do not prepare project documentation in due course for the coming years. Of course, these, almost 100 billion, represent only the most urgent means to modernise and train these two main corridors, in order to actually achieve the appropriate European comparable capacity of these links, and it will be necessary to find other resources and additional resources. At the meeting, the Committee also considered three amendments to Articles 1, 6 and to the title and all three unanimously adopted them. He also adopted all the articles unanimously, all the articles of the law together, after a joint examination of all the articles. We have thus concluded the second hearing and are proposing to the National Assembly that the proposed law be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Hwauc. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Branko Marinič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President, Honourable Minister with Colleagues, Honourable Colleagues and Colleagues! Finally, we have a law that we have waited for for a long time. The proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the Public Agency for Rail Transport of the Republic of Slovenia on credits hired to ensure the Republic of Slovenia's own participation in 2006 to 2009 in projects carried out under the Investment Programme co-financed by the European Union and to finance the domestic projects to be carried out in order to ensure railway safety will be supported by the SDS Group. The purpose of this guarantee law is to address the issue of rail financing until there is a budget line for investments in public rail infrastructure. This will provide the missing 99,692 billion Slovenian tolls, funds from 2006 to 2009, to ensure their own participation in EU projects, the implementation of priority projects in the fifth and tenth corridors, the implementation of other domestic projects that are necessary and not financed by the EU and the resolution of extraordinary events between 2003 and 2005. The proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the Public Railway Agency of the Republic of Slovenia on loans to ensure the Republic of Slovenia's own participation in the period 2006-2009 in projects implemented under the Investment Programme co-financed by the European Union and for the financing of domestic projects to be carried out in order to ensure railway safety should be dealt with following an urgent procedure, as we also take very seriously in the Slovenian Democratic Party's task force, in view of the actual situation as it is on the Slovenian railway tracks. In the past period, there has been a lack of real money invested in public rail infrastructure, and mainly railway safety components have not been taken seriously. Slovenian railways are a few years ago today in terms of ensuring safety, when we compare other public rail infrastructures, especially on European Union railways. As we say, we will support the bill in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you. Dr Marko Pavliha will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Mr. Minister with a team, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members! Oton Zupančič long ago wrote the following puzzle: "With the head of the smoke, with the heart of the cook, with the legs of the mill, takes us to Ljubljana." And then there was no ciciban who didn't know what it was. Today, however, I am no longer convinced that it is so self-evident, because the fact is that our railways, in particular infrastructure, are in a catastrophic state, because of the stepmotherly attitude of our society over the last 60 years. The consequences are visible, users - so far Slovenian railways and tomorrow foreign users - cannot drive as quickly as they would like, they cannot load as much as they would like, because the infrastructure does not bear the 22.5-ton axle load, so of course they are looking for other routes or, as Loyola de Palacio said, if Slovenia remains a narrow throat, we will bypass you. This is, of course, contrary to European transport policy and environmental policy, as much cargo and passengers should be moved from roads to railways or rails as possible. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is clearly aware of these issues, and this is confirmed by the present law, but in our opinion it is choosing the wrong way to finance. Let us say that the 2007 and 2008 budget does not provide the necessary resources for the functioning of the public railway agency, nor does it provide funds for own participation. On the other hand, we are now adopting a debt law of almost 100 billion tolars, of which 75 or less, 72, to ensure our own participation in projects of common European policies. We don't think the solution is in debt. Indeed, in the future we will be paying strong interest, which is an unnecessary cost and cost that was incurred solely because of this or mainly because we did not know how to close the 2007 and 2008 budgets to a good extent. And the question is, who's going to pay this money back? We fear that these funds will have to be paid by the state treasury. Why? The Agency could pay them if it could or could charge economic benefits from the Slovenian Railways. However, this cannot be done because Slovenian railways, as we know, are already in strong red numbers, so it has to charge substantially less, for example, in 2005 only $100 million. The government has also repeatedly mentioned in the adoption of similar laws in the field of the highway cross that this is a temporary solution, only to the moment when the highway cross is completed. But we have a feeling that this trend continues now in other areas as well, and we would like to point out that the public agency is, but in a different status-law form than Dars; Dars is a share company, it has different incomes, and the public agency is financed in this way only from the state. The Minister recently correctly stated when he spoke about the national programme, the development of public rail infrastructure, that the government must find a comprehensive way of providing the necessary funding as soon as possible. When the government defined long-term objectives for both budgets, for the first time, it did not specify deadlines, but secondly it is necessary to say that one deadline exists on the basis of an international definition and commitment, this is the deadline for the construction of the second track, but also on the second track there is not a single cent of its own participation, this is supposed to be remedied by today's guarantee and law, but we are of the opinion that at least a symbolic few means should be provided for this pan-European project, which is also supported by the European Union. As I have already mentioned in the House of Representatives, we are aware that the catastrophic state of railway infrastructure is a result of our country's ignorant attitude over the past 60's and it is impossible to attribute it to any government, but we are also aware that this fact does not give any government the right to act recklessly in the next 60's and that it continues with this trend, so we will not object to this law, although we believe it is necessary to rebuild 5 and 10 corridors, but it is difficult to support it more or less for just one reason, because it is a controversial way of financing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Good day to all of you. We are all concerned about the situation in the field of Slovenian railway infrastructure. At a time when Slovenia is only building its highway cross, the most developed European countries are investing enormous resources in the modernisation of railway infrastructure. This will have to be done sooner or later by Slovenia as a member of the European Union, or we are at risk of being bypassed by key European rail flows. Let me remind this High Council that, in this composition, we faced the financial problems of Slovenian railways for the first time in dealing with the 2005 rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, when this government found that the 2005 budget of the Republic of Slovenia did not provide for 29 billion tolls on commitments to Slovenian railways, and in the budget rebalancing, we provided an additional 10 billion tolls on the maintenance of railway infrastructure because of the worrying situation. The guarantee laws, such as the proposal for a Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act for the obligations of the Public Railway Agency of the Republic of Slovenia on credits for the provision of own participation by the Republic of Slovenia in 2006 to 2009 for projects carried out under an investment programme co-financed by the European Union and for the financing of domestic projects to be carried out in order to ensure railway safety, are much easier to criticize than to agree with them. However, taking into account the purpose of the proposed law or the purpose of the use of resources to be allocated by the Public Agency for Rail Transport of the Republic of Slovenia as its own participation in projects co-financed by the European Union, as well as the financing of emergency domestic projects to ensure railway safety, we do not have any difficulties in supporting the proposed law in the New Slovenia Group. We understand the acute situation on the Slovenian railway infrastructure and the need to ensure the provision of own resources for EU projects for the implementation of priority projects in the fifth and tenth corridor, as well as the urgent implementation of certain domestic projects and the rehabilitation of emergency events. If the funds are not provided, this could mean the repayment of the grants already received, further inability to pay the implementation contracts already signed and possible compensation actions, economic and environmental damage due to the failure to complete the works already started and the poorer starting point of the Republic of Slovenia in the new financial perspective in the period 2007 to 2013. In view of the projected scope of the works, on the most urgent projects co-financed by the European Union and other projects consistent with the 2006 and 2007 work programme of the Public Railway Agency, it is also necessary to provide the missing credit resources for timely implementation. By this law, the Republic of Slovenia guarantees the obligations of the Public Agency for Rail Transport of the Republic of Slovenia with credits up to a total of EUR 99 billion 692 million 380 thousand, or approximately EUR 416 million, with corresponding interest and credit costs. Of this, approximately 72.1 billion tolars will be allocated to co-financing of investment projects of the common European policies, and about 26.8 billion tolars or 27% will be allocated to finance domestic projects. By this law, the Republic of Slovenia guarantees the obligations of the Public Agency for Rail Transport of the Republic of Slovenia on loans it leases between 2006 and 2009 to ensure its own participation in the preparation and implementation of projects under the Investment Programme of the Common European Policies and to finance the development and maintenance of public railway infrastructure to ensure railway safety up to a total of 99.7 billion tolars, up to a certain amount in 2006 and including 2009. As I have already said, in the New Slovenia Group, we will also support the proposal for a guarantee law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Franz Kangler will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the Obligations of the Public Railway Agency makes it possible to obtain funds to carry out some of the most urgent projects by 2009. Most of this is about European funds requiring the ownership of a public railway agency. By law, the Republic of Slovenia guarantees loans up to a total of almost 100 billion tolars. So it's a lot of money. The main part is to co-finance investment projects of the common European policies and the poor 30 billion to finance domestic projects. The non-admission of this law would result in a whole series of negative facts. Among them, the proposer shall state the suspension of the implementation of ongoing projects, the loss of the right to European funds, both donations and funds from future contractual investments in railway infrastructure. What this would mean for our railways, which are already in very poor condition, may not need to be emphasized in particular. In Slovenia we have accelerated in recent years to build highway infrastructure. This was, of course, absolutely necessary and all other planned projects in the area of the motorway cross must also be completed. Unfortunately, however, due to the high attention of the motorway cross, there has been a large deficit in the development of Slovenian railways and their infrastructure. This fact is reflected in various areas, both in terms of freight and passenger transport. It is totally unacceptable that it is necessary to take the train from Ljubljana to Maribor or vice versa. In order not only to update the track, it is also necessary to correct the situation on the way to Kopra, which is worse from day to day. With the poor state of the railway infrastructure, our country is not only losing track of rail transport, rerouting international transport, both freight and passenger transport, on other routes outside Slovenia has negative consequences in many areas and is reducing our development potential in particular. Therefore, the modernisation of Slovenian railways and their infrastructure is essential. Additional investment investments are more than necessary to ensure the successful transition of our economy. In doing so, we must be aware of all the advantages of the rail transport system. One of the greatest is undoubtedly environmental variability, which also provides an opportunity for more intensive development. We are convinced that we are all aware of the responsibilities and roles of Slovenian railways, Slovenian railway infrastructure in the European transport system. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed law. We support the development of the railway network in the Slovenian People's Party, in particular in line with the new transport and economic flows that have emerged since our country's entry into the European Union. In particular, we would like to emphasise that it is necessary to plan and start building individual regional stations more rapidly. The successful modernisation of railways would undoubtedly accelerate economic development in those parts of Slovenia, where, for the time being, it is particularly hampered by the lack of links with the country's more important centres. Finally, quality infrastructure would allow for a greater development of passenger transport, which would relieve our roads and, in particular, cities facing problems due to excessive road traffic. So in the Slovenian People's Party we propose and support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Why is it that such misdirection, a man who can hardly understand, is the transfer of a government coalition. Today you all admit that it's too late for the cargo to be diverted elsewhere, and someone said, finally, we've finally just met him. This is not a solution to the problems accumulated on Slovenian railways for Holding itself, but this is just the beginning of solving the problem. Speaking of doing well, we can at the same time claim that it is very superficial and quickly prepared. Investment maintenance is required for the normal establishment of operating conditions on Slovenian railways 50 km of renovation each year, but we have written down that we will essentially spend 11.5 billion for two years, which is less in 2007 for 3.8 billion and for 2008 for 2.9 billion tolars. Talking about solving all the problems of course is not true, the damage is caused, the fire is extinguished, the rest is a burnout. Who will be responsible for this, you Minister? I have repeatedly called on the Minister to make public the damage that has been caused on a daily basis in the Slovenian economy. Will Mr Minister take this responsibility when we draw the line and calculate all these costs that have been incurred in the economy and say, "We will pay this for false reasons, and we will also make a withdrawal." For example, public opinion research also shows that the Supervisory Board is not very good either. In short, for two and a half years you have done nothing, nothing, absolutely nothing, you have neglected this area, now that the water is running down your throat, when Europe threatens to actually remove you from the list of 30 perspective projects also the so-called second track, for which you have not even budgeted the item or item, but the money is not, you quickly "spave" this guarantee law. That, I'm sorry, isn't enough. The system on Slovenian railways melts in losses and is before collapse, 4 billion losses today in the system itself. Who's responsible for this? Multiple suggestions. We told you, that's not how it works. The priority was the road, the highway, the highway and the highway. You have given 100 billion for highways, you could spend half as much as you do in euros, you could spend half for railways, half for roads, and both projects would run simultaneously, no, you chose as you did, and I think that in the case of the use that we will additionally charge to the Slovenian Railway Holding in 2007 for 2.3 billion and in 2008 for 4.9 billion, but most of us know that the goods will be vehicles in the essence of the Slovenian Railway or the national operator, it will be a commitment to the country that will have to pay the system. Then what have we solved, can you tell me? This will have consequences, this attitude, your attitude towards this problem on the railways will also be calculated. And the second track that is late, in this National Assembly we have proposed a law, and the government has adopted all the necessary spatial acts, and in this guarantee law you are in fact merely stating the beginning of the actual preparation of some re-documentation, the redemption of land, and I don't know what, it would have been all done, and we all know that, and you've put it aside. Today, when we're running out of time, it's actually leaking somewhere else, but of course you want to cover up the holes. We in the Slovenian National Party will not oppose this guarantee law because it is really necessary, but believe that the problems that exist on Slovenian railways will not be solved, blinded or planted here. It's just water on the mountain, we're going to turn off the crane, and the damage will only be calculated in a few months, and this account will be paid to you, Mr. Minister, for sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the second reading of the bill. Since there has been no discussion on the articles on the proposed amendment, I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the assembly session, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda 34 or at the latest at 9.30 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Organisation and Financing of Education and Education. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I ask the Minister, Dr. Beast, to join us. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the law. Dr. Beast, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you for saying so, Mr President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Members and Members. So you have before you a bill amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. This is a novelty that brings some novelty in particular in the area of the composition of the boards of institutions, as well as in the method of appointing the director, and some conditions for the conclusion of the working relationship in the field of education and education are described in more detail. This is especially the part about not punishing a person. The news is that they cannot be admitted to a working relationship in the field of education and education of persons convicted of a crime against sexual inviolability. As you know, we want to make this change or, in fact, the main reason or motive for this novel was a new way of appointing a director, or the procedure of appointing a director, where the minister takes a relatively strong position throughout the whole process from the final "fire" or consent, transforms this into a normal opinion at the pre-deputy stage of the appointment of a director at the institution, in the world of the institution, meaning that a new body is being appointed or adopted by a decision of appointment, i.e. a final decision, and that is the Council of the Institute. I believe that this change is towards greater autonomy of deregulation, decentralisation and also towards greater democracy, which means that instead of a central government, the saints of the institution, which are so tripartite and democratically composed, are deciding. However, the most public interest has seen a change in the composition of the institution’s world. Here we have explained several times in public, the public debate has practically been open all year long, and we have repeatedly explained why we want equal democratic participation, without the monopoly of one of the stakeholders. This means that in the field of basic education in the world of the institution will be represented equally with the necessary delegates, both the parents and the teaching group and the founder. At the level of secondary school, as well as at the level of higher education instead of parents, students come. In Europe, there is no uniform form or formula in management, more or less, the highest management authorities are directed by administrative units or regional or regional authorities. These functions are performed by management functions, as is one of the main tasks of the board of directors. We are also trying to introduce a democratic principle as far as possible to this level of governance, governance through the institution. This is the principle of participation of all stakeholders. In doing so, I would like to stress once again that there is no violation of the autonomy, professional autonomy of teachers or professional workers. They will be able to exercise professional autonomy through separate bodies and methods through the teaching choir, teaching assets, classrooms and the activities they manage during the teaching process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. You've received the committee's report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr. Slavko Gaber will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u18	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which is essentially a very different law from what this Parliament has considered when it has considered the law on graduation. If we were able to speak under the law on graduation, that is the appropriate form of upgrading the education and education system in Slovenia, we are dealing with a different law here. The law, if I mention only one of the points and I think that it is also an essential point of this law, sends the wrong signal to Slovenian education and education needlessly. Proponents obviously believe that both parents and teachers need to be informed in Slovenia that teaching plays an excessive role in decision-making in Slovenian schools. This refers to the assumption of a balanced representation of partners in the school system. They forget, however, that so far they have been represented in sacred schools by such parents, there have also been representatives of local communities and more, there they were represented when it comes to secondary school levels, including students. While all of them were represented, the fact that teachers and teachers were slightly stronger represented at school on purpose in sacred schools. That's why it's simple. The school stands and falls with teaching and teaching is only right that it cannot determine what the school’s program will be, nor can it decide who it will appoint as principal or principal. However, it is only right that a few more words are spoken than any other person who is involved in the work of the school and in the work of the school. More than 20,000 signatures have been collected against an important part of the content of this amendment, this law. If this voice is not heard by these 20,000 people, then in Parliament we will witness one of the greater hearings by the authorities when those who are most concerned by the law tell Parliament how to act. If the minister hasn't heard from them, then it would be wise for the people to hear from Parliament at least. This would be particularly wise because schools will be significantly longer in this world and school regulation is more important than our current political interests. And let me add one more word to that. When we adopt a law on organisation and financing, we set up the framework for the functioning of education in Slovenia and, simply put, we communicate in Slovenian school space, who counts in it and how we treat it. Not only does this law exclude the most important player from the game, teaching him - informs him that he has had too much power so far - but he does something else, which is also incomprehensible. Students and students, whom we claim to be responsible citizens and citizens, are also too small to be able to decide on those matters that are being decided by the school council. And that is why, of course, we will not support this law in this form.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u19	Thank you. Ms Majda Potter will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Mr Minister with fellow Members! For Social Democrats, the issue of education and knowledge is a key issue. We therefore welcomed the idea that the law on the organisation and financing of education and education should also be the subject of a partnership for development. Therefore, in the coordination process, we tried to reach out to such a form of law as would also be acceptable to the Social Democrats. The fundamental question that we were asking ourselves was one of the two fundamental changes brought by law, which is the question of the composition of schools and the question of the appointment of directors. And it was at the very first time that we thought of the crucial importance on which the professional basis was based that the proposed structure of the school world was based. From the current number of 11 members of the School Council, the number of members of the Council is decreasing to 9. For the first time, all three sides of the school were the key ones responsible for the education and education of the school, but in a different relationship. And so it seemed most important to us to hear the arguments that one of the key to education and education, for teachers and teachers, had to be reduced from the five previous members of the school's world to only 3. Social Democrats are advocated for social partnership. It seems to us that the key issues relating to education and education must be agreed on the things that teachers must constantly decide in their daily school practice and even after the decisions they have taken. We have discussed the proposal for a law on the world teacher's day on the home work body, and it is interesting that the recommendation on the position of teachers states that teachers should also be involved in the drafting of legislation, in the formulation of opinions and views in the organisation of education, and that a fundamental problem arises for the Social Democrats because we know that they do not agree with the largest school unions. That is why the proposed law is not acceptable to the Social Democrats and we do not support them. We have already tried with the amendment to amend the article that interferes with the composition of the school's world, but without success. We are re-investing the amendment and will also explain it. The second amendment, which relates to the appointment of directors, was accompanied in public by the Minister's opinion that he would in some way give up on the principle level his influence in appointing directors. Indeed, this is only at the principle level for the Social Democrats, because, according to the current proposal, when the Minister should give a previous opinion to the candidate or candidate for director, he does not waive his actual influence, the real impact on the appointment of the director or principal is thus increasing, the fact is that in order to fulfil this position, everyone who wishes to fulfil the conditions laid down by law must be given a proper examination or fulfilment of the conditions so that it is not at all a question of whether the Minister is given this competence. Surely, however, his consent is decisive in directing the school’s world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u21	Thank you. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, Minister of Cooperation, Members of Parliament and Members! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on organisation and financing of education and education brings two major changes in this area, namely the appointment of a director and the composition of the board of directors of the institution. When appointing a principal, responsibility is transferred to schools, the principal is decided by the school board after a new one, which has to gain the views of the teaching congregation, the parents’ opinion and the opinion of the local community, namely, the congregation. And in high school, there's the students' opinion. When the Council of the applied candidates elects a suitable candidate for principal, it shall transmit this to the Minister and shall deliver an opinion within 30 days, unless that opinion is delivered by the Board of Directors, and the opinion of the Minister after a new one shall no longer be mandatory for the reception or approval of the Director. In view of past developments, particularly last year, we welcome this decision by the Government that it now plays a greater role or role in the appointment of a director, particularly the board of the institution, which will also be responsible for the quality and performance of work in schools. The environment from which the candidate comes is that the teachers and parents and the local community know best the candidates and it is right to choose the suitable ones to work with, to be co-workers, to maintain, to rebuild, to build kindergartens, schools and to raise children. Another important change is the composition of the board of the institution; three representatives of the employees, three representatives of the parents and three representatives of the municipalities are new. If we want the institution's world to carry out its task, it is only right to give equal conditions to all three partners at the start. Because in the public eye it was "increasing" to reduce the role of teachers, let me say that good teachers, educators and other employees, especially good educators, are not afraid of these changes. The founder’s representatives are not afraid of their parents. Each of these three shall have its own role and mission, which must be played in a fair and professional manner. Why should we fear representatives of the congregation, because we know that they are responsible and are called upon to maintain institutions, build them, take care of their salaries, approve superstandard programs and more. We know what the mission of teachers and, after all, of parents who may not care what school or institution their child is raised and educated. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposed changes to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-workers. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support changes in the law, we also support all amendments of the Committee and the three parliamentary groups to the 46th Article of the current law. Again, on this occasion, we would like to point out that changes in education and education legislation and relevant sub-legislative acts must be adopted in a timely manner so that the institutions and all those concerned can be prepared in time for their implementation and that, due to the late adoption of the rules, the educational process is not affected. We support the changed composition of the institution's world, as it is more balanced and plays a greater role for parents and founders. We are convinced that parents have the right and the duty to participate actively in the education of their children. The composition of the board of the institution with three representatives of the founder, three representatives of the parents and three representatives of the employees shall represent the equal and equal representation of parents and employees and the founder and shall implement the principle of partnership between those involved in the education and training process. Students have their influence in the procedures for appointing the Director by giving opinions. As we are aware, this solution was also agreed with by the Diaska Organizacija Slovenije. They also support changes in the saints of the parents of the coastal and Ljubljana schools. Parents stress that they are very interested in a greater role in the education and education system, which does not mean that we do not diminish the role of teachers and their expertise. With regard to the procedure for appointing directors in Article 4 of the novel, I also believe that tours in the selection of the director should be equally assisted by representatives of parents in the world of the school and the founder. Both the preference of employees in public schools and the satisfaction of parents by choosing a director or principal are important for the good work of a public institution. Therefore, we also think it appropriate to change the Minister's influence on the appointment and thus give the local community a greater role in appointing a director. This will increase the autonomy of schools and local communities and ensure the decentralisation of decision-making. We believe in the parliamentary group that schools and kindergartens must relive in their environment and promote development and opportunities for young people in the local community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u26	Thank you so much for your word and a nice greeting for me, too. Dear colleagues and colleagues and, of course, the Minister and representatives of the Ministry! Today's changes have their weight. The Minister, with the proposed amendments, intervenes with the highest management body, i.e. the world, and rephrases the composition of the public kindergarten council or school. This is also a change that has not been supported by staff in education and education. Moreover, the Union of Education, Education, Science and Culture has provided 21 000 274 signatures to the National Assembly in education and education. 21,274 signatures by which the signatories objected to a reduction in the number of employees in the world of the institution. The applicant did not submit any expert studies to justify the need to change the composition of the worlds, kindergartens and schools or to reduce the number of members. The number of workers in this body is decreasing from 5 to 3. However, the profession is afraid that just reducing the number of employees in the world will not increase the quality of their work, but will increase the impact of others on the functioning of schools or kindergartens due to the increased number of members of the other two interest groups. This is a very similar measure that this government has introduced in the field of culture, where unfortunately there are already negative consequences. There is also a new process of appointing directors, as we have already heard today, which also reduces the minister's role in the appointment. On the other hand, this measure increases the impact of representatives of the local community, which on the other hand could lead to greater autonomy of kindergartens and schools in terms of lower dependence on the Ministry and, on the other hand, to greater dependence on local political influence. I'll give you a brief summary. 2.1,274 signatures filed against the proposed change in the composition of the board of the institution. The law is out of line. The Ministry was deceiving when it claimed that the law was in line with the union. The government only explains its decision to reduce the number of employees in the world with their alleged over-influence on decisions. I ask where the so-called autonomy of kindergartens and schools based on expertise was then lost in the proposed solution. In the June issue of School Views, the Minister promised a regular procedure for the proposed changes. Today, we are considering the law in a simplified procedure, which is unacceptable, because it is a matter of significant changes. I am sorry, but I am going to say it is a shame that, in the light of the opposition to the law, a positive novelty will be adopted due to the previously mentioned poor solutions that neither of the speakers has actually touched me before, and this is a novelty under Article 107. On the initiative and proposal of the Slovenian National Party, the government finally entrusted the Ministry of Field Affairs with the task of providing employment, education and education in the field of social welfare, education and education with a legal requirement that candidates for employment or employees in those areas should not be legally convicted of crimes against sexual inviolability. And, as has already been said, the Ministry of Education has actually first approached this decision, which, at least from the point of view of legislation, I will say, represents a step towards greater protection of children against the possibility of sexual abuse within the framework of educational or educational institutions. However, I ask how the proposed measure set out in the second paragraph of Article 107 will be implemented and, of course, what criminal responsibility is there for violators of this provision or regulation. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we estimate that, unfortunately, the government has also chosen the easiest way. I will say that the burden of responsibility will be lifted in the regulation of safeguard legislation, as it is a so-called "per partes" solution, while there is still no integrated approach at the country level. In the Slovenian National Party, this amendment is precisely why we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u27	Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The DeSUS Members of the proposed law are certainly in favour of us. One of the most pressing topics already in the drafting phase of the proposal and in the second reading on the home work body was the proposed change in the composition of the worlds of kindergartens and schools. In the DeSUS Group, we represent the position that we have already stated at the working body meeting that such changes are necessary and welcome. We believe that the composition is based on 3 employees' representatives [[These are principally teachers or educators.]] , 3 representatives of parents and 3 representatives of the founders, represent a balanced structure and prevents fear of reducing the professional role of teachers. The Council of Schools or Kindergartens does not exclusively represent a professional body, but it does care for other things, such as financing and investment. We are pleased that parents of children will also be able to influence the lives and work of their children in these institutions. We also share the same enthusiasm for the equal participation of representatives of local communities, as they monitor social activities in their area, including education. Moreover, we must not ignore their role in setting up and financing educational institutions, and that is precisely a valid reason to allow them an equivalent position. We must not forget that fundamental concern in this area is the quality education and training of our children. The latter can only be ensured on the basis of mutual cooperation and the trust of all those involved in this process, i.e. parents, local authorities and teachers. In our Group of Members, we agree with the amendment concerning the appointment of a director, since the latter must be acceptable to both parents, the local community and teachers. We believe that the school council or kindergarten should play a greater role in the appointment of principals, so we support the change in the direction of reducing the role of minister as a political official to provide an earlier mandatory consensus to the opinion on the candidate selected. In view of the data on child sexual abuse, however, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that it is indeed time for a provision to be included in this sectoral law, which, as a condition for employment in the field of social care, education and education, provides that candidates for employment or employees in these areas must not be legally convicted of crimes against sexual inviolability. On the basis of the estimated positive changes in the DeSUS Group, we fully support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you. Ms Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u30	Nice greetings to the Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group, we will support the proposed amendments to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, as these are two key changes that we support, namely the composition of the boards of institutions and the procedure for appointing a director. We believe that both key changes in the law are positive, as parents, founders and teachers acquire the proposed composition of the world. In the context of the second amendment to the appointment procedure, there is a greater autonomy and responsibility of the school council, thus gaining autonomy and one greater responsibility. The proposed solutions are aimed at allowing for a new more balanced composition of public kindergarten and school councils and thus the equivalent impact of all stakeholders on decisions. Therefore, the number of workers' representatives is decreasing accordingly. The Council of Public Education or Schools shall consist of three representatives of the founder, three representatives of the workers and three representatives of the parents. The composition of the council of higher education is governed by a special law. As has been the case so far, it is new that, in the case where the founder of the school is a State, one of the members of the representatives of the founder is a representative of the local community in which the school is established or several local communities, if they so agree. The role of teachers in law is not reduced, since the field of pedagogical decision-making is in their hands and is the largest group with the dominant professional field in the institution. Teachers are also part of the professional asset under Article 60 of the Education and Education Financing Act and are represented in professional assets, departmental teaching councils, teaching councils and other bodies where the most important professional decisions are taken. It is necessary to separate part of the management process and part of the decision-making process. We trust teachers, and in the future, professional decisions will be taken in these professional bodies. The procedure for appointing a director is very indicative in the law on financing education and education, and in practice it has proved to be more reasonable to make it more appropriate for individual stakeholders to give their views on the candidate or candidates for director. In the proposed law, the first part of Article 53 of the Education and Education Financing Act, which provides for new conditions only for the Director, does not change substantively, and a new article is created separately, which specifically and more transparently regulates the appointment and discharge of the Director. An important change in the procedure for appointing a director compared to the regulation so far is that the Council must obtain only its opinion before the appointment of a candidate for director to the position of the Minister's present consent, which is not binding on the final decision of the Council. In this way, the world assumes greater responsibility for the development and quality of the institution and acquires greater autonomy, leading to the decentralisation of decision-making. For the greater impact of parents on the choice, an institution of opinion of the Council of Parents is established, which can thus express important views on the organisation of the school. Also in the future, in the process of appointing principals, there remains a provision by which the council of kindergartens or schools must obtain the opinion of the local community. The local community must explain its support to the candidate or more candidates accordingly after examining the candidate programmes. Following the regulation and practice of the local community, they did not explain their opinions, which did not allow the world of kindergartens or schools to create an additional picture of candidates. On the basis of this, the proposal for a new law on financing education and education will be supported in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled to be led on the basis of the review of the amendments, of 27.10.2006. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members, the amendment of the Social Democrats Group and the two amendments of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS Group of Members. I'm opening the application. The application for discussion on the second Article and the amendments to Article 2 shall be pending. Mr. Mogue, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u32	Messengers and Members, nice greetings! As already announced by the representative of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will not support this law. The only thing that bothers us about this law is this Article 2 and I will try to say in a few words why we have proposed an amendment to delete this article. First time. Without further finding that the previous composition of 5-3-3 means five performers against six consumers, it now passes into 3-3-3-3-3, that is to say 3 to 6 and others, meaning that the operators are far away, far below being able to somehow exercise their interests, as was the case in the law that was until recently and is still in force. Why, listen, there is such a lack of trust in the composition of the world, but if the saints are so far and the schools have worked well for many years. I think you need to be aware and somehow understand the school how it works. It is difficult for someone who is just a politician and who has dealt with the school only when he went to school, but it is easier to understand those who have worked for ten years in school, who have also acted, two of them, they even have the title of coercion here in the National Assembly, and they both oppose this law. When it was somehow decided how many people there were to be in the world, then it was also taken into account what the world was actually doing. If the law, and nothing has changed, I quote, then the world, as the highest authority, appoints and relieves the principal of kindergarten or school. This is some act I'll talk about later. If we move forward, it adopts a kindergarten or school development programme and adopts an annual work plan. The annual work plan, respected colleagues and colleagues, however, is a very complicated act, which of course consists not only of who teaches what subject, but also of what content and when and where and how it will be submitted. And that's why it's very important in the school world to have teachers from all walks of life. Now, when five members of the world were presented, it could be a school and probably a school, almost if the smart one was probably a delegation to the world of a school of someone who was a mathematician, someone who was a celebrity, someone who was a foreign language, someone who was from sociology and someone who was from science or anyone else, sometimes also let someone out that someone who was a mathematician was also a naturalist. The vast palette was gathered here and it was possible to discuss these things in an reasoned manner and, of course, the majority eventually prevailed, that's those users of the school 3 plus 3, not those who were at school when they were taking it. It was a relationship, this tension between those who were implementing a programme that was professionally subdued and prepared against others who were bred into the school world, of course, I would say somewhat balanced. And all of you who have said that you support the law and that the world is now balanced, I do not believe this for "the feather of souls", 5:6 or 3:6, that 3:6 is a greater balance than 5:6, this of course does not apply. There are other dilemmas. Of course, it's about how the principal loves himself. That he became director today of the spoils of the various political parties of one or the other province does not have to be specifically spoken. In recent years, the Director and the appointment of directors have been discussed more than the appointment of anyone, either from companies or from public institutions. There have also been a lot of heated controversy as to whether such a composition of the world is guaranteed to get a good director, or whether such a composition of the world does not lead to this. Should the power of politics be strengthened when it comes to the appointment of a director or not? It is clear that the current proposed composition of the Council, unless this amendment is accepted by me, is aimed at making policies more inappropriate to influence who the director is than it was before. Before that, arguments, qualities had to be weighed, but now the arguments of power could be dealt with quite in such a composition. There's something else I'd like to point out. It is not good in the school system, where there are more than 10,000 highly educated people, more than 10,000, all teachers have a high education to talk to them in such a way that if over 20,000 have signed them, that they do not agree with a solution as it is in law, they can do so to wave with their left hand and that this argument in practice is not valid. I think that this is too much of a teacher underestimation for the first time, as well as too much underestimation of the union that has launched this action and which is committed to maintaining the level of relations between the operators and between these service users provided by the school as it has been so far. I don't think we need to dig an axe like that at the time we started digging it. It could go to another relationship if there were too little or too many. But certainly this solution is in my opinion, where only the number of teachers is decreasing, that this thing will not lead to the quality development of our education. There are only three teachers in the school world, but I have a whole bunch of responsibilities that this world has to carry out, leading to the narrowing down of that part that will decide which was the most professional and even competent part of how this thing happens. If it's the other way around, if you don't support the amendment by accident, thank God, but as for the 20-year experience I have in this area, I can say that this kind of thing, and I'm going to go a little too far, leads to disaster. It seems to me, dear colleagues and colleagues, that the only purpose of amending this law is to reduce the role of teachers in decision-making in schools and kindergartens. I don't know what they've done to try to eliminate so many of them from their reception opportunities and to open the way for policy makers to be appointed. For this reason, I ask that this amendment to Article 2 to delete this article be supported. And if we really thought to accept any changes, it seems to me that this change could occur if the number of people participating in the world were to increase, but not that the changes are only directed at the number of those, I reiterate, who are the most competent, who live with school, on which their way of life is also dependent, to reduce the number of those, and in this way when we reduce the number of these people, we will, of course, have better schools. This solution is too cheap for me, respected colleagues and colleagues, to see where the dog is praying. So, in those two things I told you. This means reducing the role of teachers and making it easier to appoint politically compatible administrators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This Parliament will adopt a law in the field of education in which we will test whether the voice of those who bear the highest responsibility in school counts. Of course, parents are responsible for the school, and the local community is responsible for the school, but at the end of the day, if we are to be honest, we must admit that we all look at when something is wrong in school, when something is wrong, when we wish it was, teachers. And if 21,000 people wrote to the minister to reconsider and not to accept the amendments that we are talking about here today, and the Minister was not prepared to hear them, it would be good to recall these signatures at least here in Parliament on this occasion. The reason for this, ladies and gentlemen, is simple: the Minister can't tell us and can't tell us, he can't even give us ten cases in ten years when the functioning of the worlds in such an occupation as the law knows right now would cause any problems. There are no such ten cases in ten years. And if they are not and because they are not, there is no wise reason to change the law in this article; perhaps there are political reasons for the worst kind. There may be a need to increase the responsibility of teachers, more and more talk about it, but at the same time as we increase their responsibility - and of course, responsibility is something that must exist in school - we reduce the power of decision-making. These two don't go together. The signal is simply such that teaching will not be able to understand it differently than that it is a matter of mistrust in their work, in their role in school. There was much talk about how all of this must be balanced. I think my colleague Moze very nicely pointed out that this balance now looks like this: 6 is those on the users' side, and 3 are those on the performers' side. This imbalance is far from visible and goes along with the logic of this government. This government has radically intervened in a similar article in the power of researchers in the field of research in decision-making and is now also interfering with the education and education of those responsible there and those who end up doing business or not doing business; this is what we are talking about. This logic is very dangerous. The lack of confidence shown by the authorities toward those who carry out their business and the amount of this mistrust goes beyond a reasonable measure. By now, in this world, users had a predominant word, six people could always vote on what they wanted. The teachers had five votes. And if anyone believed that they had too much power to make this school work badly, so that the worlds did not function as they should, they should come in on a day with data. Another element that also points to the mental picture of the people who propose these changes is the fact that they are disappearing from the world of schools like those who have a word at the secondary level, students. I simply don't understand why they need to take that responsibility away from them when they are in the final stage of personal creation, the stage in which they show themselves the most, if they can decide on important things themselves, if you don't give people responsibility, they will never learn to wear it and talk about active citizenship, and when it comes to serious decision-making, it means not to take seriously active citizenship, it means building scenes in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about these issues here today when we are talking about an article that we are committed to staying until you find a better proposal, which is the worse one you have brought to this Parliament since the present solution, we propose that this solution remain. Some of us have this historical memory, and we know why such a relationship has taken place in this law, which is still in force. At work, there was a clear awareness of the two, first of all that the body must be made up of a partnership and the partnership is already made up, second point we had before our eyes was that it was wise to have enough words in this body, also those who are ultimately responsible, most responsible for whether the school is successful or not, if we think by taking away their power, by taking away the meaning of their voice and saying that they should do even better, even more, then this communication that we decided to do is, I think that by definition, by no means will give these results. We need a school where there is a lot of investment, where expectations are high, but if we expect more and more from the one we take the word we take from him when it comes to decision-making, then I don't understand how this person could take our efforts seriously. Wrong, bad message, Mr. Minister, you are sending to Slovenian education with this article in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If you allow me, I would just like to try to respond to the challenges that have been posed in their deliberations by Members and Members of Parliament. First of all, some performances are unnecessary dramatisation and, in my opinion, a rather cheap collection of political points among individual stakeholders. I'll try to explain why. I would like to try to understand once that the management function in institutions is separate from the professional function. School really isn't a company, but school is a company. So, anyway, you can understand that now. The school cannot be run or managed only as an undertaking, but must also be managed and managed in a way that is economical and efficient. See, the Council of the Institute decides, before we have heard of Member Mojet, the development programme, the annual work plans, the work reports, the complaints, the salaries, the 13th and 14th wages will now be decided upon by the directors, the appointment and resolution of the director, the things that the collective itself cannot manage. The collective cannot give a report on the work and then decide and discuss and adopt this report on its own. Here, however, you need to understand this movement, which is half-moving, because in Europe they do not even know the democratic system of the management of institutions as we have it written here, but are determined by regional, rural and other instances in the management of these institutions. We have a system of participation and it's democratic, it's equivalent, but it's really one step away from the former self-government model where the collective had a monopoly on it. But, please, because of this, it doesn't mean any bad message or bad signal for teachers or students. The students will then have the opportunity to give an opinion on every matter. It is true that, before that, they were part of the decision-making process through their representatives, but which could have been voted on at any time, because they had such a large minority. This was also agreed with the president of the student organisation, and there is no such case in Europe, and we also wanted to be uniform here, but once again, students are much more integrated into the decision-making system after the current work than they were with the two representatives. You talk about the model more often than the user. I think that's a bit of an outdated dichotomy. It is important, today, to talk about partner tripartite system management and it is right that all these stakeholders, all these factors, the factors involved in the decision-making process are equally involved. If we did add up, as Mr Mogo warned, they had a majority before, as is now the case with users. As far as the appointment of directors is concerned, I am not giving up any responsibility. On top of that, I am giving up my influence, just the opposite, as Mrs Potrate said. I do not believe that after that there will be a greater impact of policy, daily policy or client policy on the appointment of directors if the Minister has the final thirst in this decision-making, this is likely, but the Minister is usually also a political figure, the greatest possible influence of policy on the appointment of directors. After that, the Founder will have a word that is more equivalent than before, and I see nothing wrong with it. On the contrary, you are constantly trying to prove that both parents and the founder are undesirable in joining the school. That school, which is integrated into its environment, which works well with parents, is a good school. And the apriorium rejecting it and counting it as something bad, I think it's wrong. The Council of the Institute does not decide on substantive issues, nor on professional matters. That's what he decides to do. Mr. Mogue, you probably know that, so it is not possible to say that incompetent factors will now be involved in professional decision-making. What we would like is for teachers to devote themselves fully to their work, to co-decision on management matters, but not more in terms of monopoly, but to those with whom they must cooperate in a partnership manner, but not to vote. The novelty mentioned by Member Barbara Žgejner Tavš, where we tried to prevent entry, for example, work in the process of education and education to all those convicted of sexual inviolability, I must admit that this novelty has also come in their initiative. I think it's that much for once. He stayed for a while for possible speeches later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Mogue, did you report to the replica or to the debate? To the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u38	Mr. President, thank you very much. Good-bye, everyone. Look, Mr. Secretary. Some of the things you said, they absolutely don't. The Council shall consider, inter alia, the report on education or educational issues. If that's not a professional question, then I'm a dog with a rubber. But I have a lot of other things I can say. Second thing. You said that there was no more self-governance in school, but at the same time you said that the school was also a company and not a public institution, so that as a company the school should be treated. Mr. Stipe Schuvar wanted to make a business with the school. I was such an executive at a company like that myself, so in school, and I'm thanking God, I'm going to die a week earlier because I hired Marles because it was inflation, so I borrowed my school money so that at the end of the month I could pay. Marles went into bankruptcy at the time, and you know how much trouble I've had to get that money together. The school is not a company, it cannot be a company, but a school is a public institution that still has some funds. And it's not some administration, this world of schools that would make a lot of decisions about where this money would go, because standards and norms are almost fully defined. And when you say, well, if I quote you, it is unnecessary to dramatise and raise political points in some parliamentary groups, Minister, you are a politician, too, and we know that this is about every law when we talk about it, about collecting political points because certain facts are facing. Unlike others, I have never tried to raise political points in this field of education. Many times I have opposed even my own party, I have tried to do the best that can be done for this country in the field of education, because I believe if we have a capable education and a good education, that this is the only way forward. And since independence, it has proved to be the only way ever. It is also a matter of thanking the school system that we are on a scale capable of where we are. But I think, Mr. Secretary, that what you've said doesn't hold on to almost any point. It's still 5 to 6 and still valid 3 to 6. I think that this law is, once again, an untrustworthy teacher and teacher and an easier way to appoint directors. And I don't think it's wise that in the midst of some school legislation, this very law of opposition to unions, in the face of opposition to a large part of teachers, you push yourself through. I'm sure this marriage will cause damage in our schools.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs. Potrata, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thank you. We are discussing amendments to Article 2. This is an article that brings, in the opinion of the Social Democrats, a significant change in the functioning of the school. It is interesting to note that the applicant is constantly referring to the fact that she does not want to cut down materially so far, that it is for her quality, but the question is why she insists so scrupulously on such a change. This is not the only change in the world, we have already experienced changes in others and what experience we have with these changes, it probably does not show us to lose words now. Surely these changes have not strengthened the trust between the ruling coalition and the opposition. The opposition's warnings proved justified in the vast majority of cases. There's another reason I don't understand in my scrupulously defending this change. They keep trying to convince us that the role of the world is not what we see in the law. The Council decides on important professional issues, and also appoints a director, and it is therefore impossible to argue that the change of the Council must be justified only by tripartiteness and the same number. The same number in this case is no different than the possibility of voting on the part that represents the profession in the world. As the world is now proposed, I think we can mathematically calculate how it goes, and that's exactly what the debate on the parent's working body has shown. On the one hand, advocates of increased parental influence were advertised; on the other hand, advocates of the increased influence of the local community were advertised. Social Democrats do not take responsibility for the functioning of the school. But the question is, where does this lead us, if we hear those who advocate the interests of the local community, that school should be run as a business, and if we hear, of course, different answers to the question of what role parents play in the school world if parents also have the world of schools. The current relationship is also tripartite. We are not talking about self-government, but we are talking about co-management and co-management is something that Europe recognises as an important contribution to improving the quality of the work of an institution, or if you want any other public institutions. And it is the teachers, who are representatives of the educational and educational process providers, who are so equal after education that the only difference between them is actually in relation to the professional areas they cover and there has already been talks about. The Social Democrats have been asked by the proposer and, on her behalf, of course, by the Ministry of Education and Sport to try to reach a consensus with the social partners. We were promised that such an attempt would be carried out. As far as we are aware, such an experiment has not taken place, so we have tabled an amendment by the Social Democrats, which we do not claim to have any professional basis for such a composition being better than that proposed by the Ministry of Education and Sport. Finally, at a meeting of the working body, we have also learned that trade unions have also had some compromise proposal that would allow for a small number of members of the world. The number was similar to ours, four-three, except that one-four was different. We have written the Social Democrats in our proposal, as you can see, that there would be four representatives of the local community in the world, four representatives of the collective and three representatives of the parents. If I had read it correctly, the representatives of the union considered that the four representatives of the parents, the four representatives of the teaching group and the three representatives of the local community. In both cases, formula 4 4 3 is about finding a compromise, which is related to me a fundamental question. This question is: Why is change even necessary? What arguments are behind the analysis that would show that such a composition of the world as it is now does not work well? This is the composition of three three five, with parents and local communities going after three seats, so to speak, and teachers five. In this case too, teachers do not have a majority, so they are not afraid of any professional supremacy of other interests. I don't see any other explanation than the fact that what is enshrined in the coalition contract has to be realized. The Coalition Treaty is a political act. And when we talk about collecting political points, we have to ask ourselves, who doesn't collect them, if we're already throwing this ball from one side to the other. That is why, of course, the amendment we tabled to the Social Democrats seems to be the way to compromise. Even the best solution we can think of is what it is now, and I'm basing it on another document. If the first absence of all analyses and professional arguments for change is, however, a greater amendment to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education is announced. At this meeting of the National Assembly, it seems that we are facing partial changes in the type of laws. And the bigger ones are waiting for us. Now I don't know if it's just the softening of the ground, or the principle of graduality, that then the matter won't be too strong, but still. If you decide in the school field intervention coalition, you would expect to act responsibly to this extent to convince the opposition with professional arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Loveshek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. President. A respected council, a respected minister, respected other representatives of the government. We want to convince each other today, just as we do on the parent’s working body, whether this amendment reduces the powers of the teaching profession or not. In this regard, I also understand the amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy and Social Democracy. I think myself, and I'm sure of it in nothing. On the contrary, it is the local community that has acquired the authority of the founder of the institution by means of the proposed constitution, the founder, while the teachers or school workers do not lose anything because they did not have the majority in the world of the institution, nor do they diminish their professional competences. In order to do so, it is necessary to read the provisions of the basic law relating to the powers of the board of directors, Article 48, the powers of the director, Article 49, and the powers of the professional bodies, such as the teaching council, Articles 60 and 61, and I will not read it myself. What do these powers show? That there are three functions in the office or in the school. Professional pedagogical function, where it has a primate teaching choir, management function, where it holds the primate council of the institution and executive function, where it has a primate principal as the manager of the school or the institution. What changes in the powers of the three functions by the proposed law and where does the proposed amendment affect which function? Who runs the institution or the school, the world or the workers? We have to ask ourselves, and indeed the management of the institution and the teaching profession must not be interfered with here, so at least what I expect is, and therefore I support the proposed amendment of the law or the proposed amendment set out in Article 2 in order to give the founder, the local community, at least the same role, the status and the power of decision-making in the world of the institution as employees of the institution. I would even expect and want even more power to run the plant than workers and parents would have, why? Because the local community is the founder of the institution because it provides conditions for the functioning of the school and its development from finance to investment for enlargement, improvement of working conditions, conditions for the work of teachers and pupils, etc. So, at least I expect a balanced three-partite composition of the board of the institution with the same power of decision in the management of the institution. Among the representatives of workers, teachers, where there is difficulty in teaching, for example, the annual work plan, parents, where their focus will be on monitoring the acquisition of knowledge, education and working conditions for teachers and workers, and the local community, where there will be a focus on school development, working conditions, the satisfaction of teachers, children and parents. Here is the essence of understanding the proposed provision. In fact, we need to move away from the self-governance of the management of the institution to the institutional understanding of the management of the institution. I know that some, including those present, have a problem with this transition from self-governance to governance. I don't mean anything by it, but they need a longer time to change their thinking background. However, trust must be created in a tripartite relationship, and only good work can be built on this and good results can be expected. Failure to trust the founder can be very problematic, as it gives financial resources for the construction and maintenance of facilities, for equipment, for additional programmes. The municipalities are those who build kindergartens, schools, maintain them, give money to teachers, confirm superstandard programs, and so on. Therefore, why should the local community not be represented in a balanced way in the world of the institution, since the world of the institution is a management body, whereas the professional bodies consist only of the educational, teaching or teaching council, so that the work of teachers takes place in professional bodies rather than in the institution’s management body. Therefore, no one takes or reduces the role they have in terms of professionalism, but they will also have a balanced unitary role in the world of the institution in the power of decision-making, as parents should, after all, are the children of these parents in school, as well as the founder who should play the most important role in school management. Such a tripartite relationship also leads in the direction of solutions that are in most European Union countries. The opposition speaks and warns that local policy will now have a greater impact. Where did this fear come from? The Municipal Council, in which the influence of political parties is strongly dispersed, will appoint three representatives of its citizens, who have teaching knowledge and practice as parents, who have had or are still in contact with a school that knows the school and the collective school, and who will have a four-year mandate, so they will also have a mandate when the municipal council is replaced. In particular, it should be stressed that all municipal councils have social activities which have the task of monitoring what is happening in the community’s education area and also propose appropriate solutions, as they do not politicise them. And in these committees there are also respected citizens with pedagogical knowledge. Therefore, I am convinced that in the world of schools and institutions, elected and appointed people who are competent, responsible and professionally strong enough in the field of education and education, i.e. those who will have a basic objective and a basic concern and not a policy, and that the policy of withdrawing from school, which has not been so far under the previous authority, is to deprive the Ministry of the competence to give consent to the appointment of a principal, will have only the option of giving an opinion which the school council will take into account or not. And last but not least, which is very important and probably is also at the heart of the opposition of teachers and educators, the director will gain greater autonomy for his decisions, greater independence for his workers, teachers, because, among other things, he provides for the systemisation of jobs, decides on the advancement of workers in payment classes, decides on the conclusion of working relationships, decides on the disciplinary responsibility of workers and teachers, etc. and since the Board of the Institute appoints the Director, the proposed amendments wish to have a greater impact on the appointment of the Director. I therefore do not support the proposed two amendments. The proposed amendment to the law satisfactorily eliminates unbalanced powers between workers, teachers, parents and the local community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u43	Thank you. I'm opening an application for a second round of debate. Mr. Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today we're talking about what school is. Some do not particularly considerately accuse others of speaking. I would like to point out in this act that, for example, it is to say that the composition of the world and the functioning of the world today is self-regulatory, or ignorance, and because I do not believe in ignorance, so it is probably the other thing that is misleading people. Some here say that so far the collective has had a monopoly on school decision-making. If they know the concept of monopoly and, for example, if they walk through the dictionary of the Slovenian book language, they write, among other things, exclusive authority in an area, then they know that their claim from the vine is twisted. The same people speak and say all this to the minister that parents are in the eyes of those who believe that in schools those who are most responsible for doing their job well should not diminish their influence and also their responsibilities not that their parents are undesirable there. It just doesn't hold anymore. This falls within all other fields except the field of argumentated debate. So why is this all going on? Someone avoids answering a simple question. In what cases has the school world functioned in the last ten years in such a way that the work has not been done responsiblely, that it has not been done effectively and that is why it is necessary to change the structure of the school world? Since the answer is well - known, we do not know these cases in public, they were not. Perhaps someone will now order letters saying that this was the case, but it is a little late if these letters begin to come now. We don't know these cases until now. I don't think anyone's gonna think of anything like that, so the question is, why are we changing? Because the school became a company? We know she didn't get up, and we also know that there's no company in this country. That it has elements that require rational management by means of means, that we need to consider how to invest, how much, who, when. Of course that's true. But it is not yet an undertaking, unless the concept of an undertaking is used in the same way as instead of co-management, we use self-governance and something else. So if we use the terms by their own devices. It is not possible to think that this is not another way of trying to subjugate one of the half systems in the country. This area was too autonomous. That's the truth of the matter. Teaching as the core of this autonomy had too many words. The impact of teachers and teachers should be reduced. And interestingly enough, the influence of someone in the saints needs to be reduced. Explain that students have the same, if not even more power after the new, when they are no longer in the worlds. Ladies and gentlemen, this is at odds with basic common sense. And that is also evident in the diocese community. Mr. Minister, you claim that they support this marriage of yours. I have before me their record, whose core is the thesis that everything about students will be decided without students. This is how they support this law of yours, if you understand support in this way, if even frankly they say that they do not support the law, then I understand that we will most likely end up even saying that there were 21,000 signatures and the fact that the union is against it, even the support of this law by 21,000 people, is very highly educated against the law. And you're bringing through Parliament changes that can't have any other interest than increasing the influence of someone on the appointment of directors. Especially can I not understand this because the saints have acted well until now. And what's good, what works well is one fundamental rule, we don't change that. Maybe, of course, we could come up with a deal with our partners, a solution that would be upgrading this law. Of course, as the LDS, for example, supported the upgrading of the law on graduation, they would have supported this law-building. There's nothing to back this up. We therefore defend our complement, which leaves until you find better solutions, solutions such as these.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. I am also joining those who are assessing that this change will in no way help to make schooling better, but quite the opposite. In the management of schools, we must surely be aware that there is a specific specification here and I would not like schools to operate as businesses as an economy, but it would not be bad if organisational schemes were summarised, at least in good cases. And if I go back to the amendment or to the very content of the composition of the world, we can see that you can certainly defend a tripartite balance, and you will prove it. However, let us be aware of who participates in schools and, above all, of who provides funds. This is especially true in preschool education, for the role of the congregations is so much greater there and, of course, it is so much more important that people are from the environment. And here now, not only do I think of the local community as a political role involved, but I stress once again, the people in the environment in which these institutions operate so much more important. And I argue that they also have the right to participate in these decisions, because, as they say, they also provide a large part of the funding, in pre-school education from the budget, even for the exercise of activities alone, and in primary schools, of course, for maintenance and other material conditions provided. And for this reason, of course, I support the amendment proposal, which is under discussion. And for this reason, I support the amendment that is under discussion. At the same time, because if we look at what they are now according to the new jurisdiction of the world. Minister, you have announced that you will withdraw from the decision-making process, including from deciding for sure one of the most important matters under the authority of the world, that is, the director. Now I wonder, what will be the decision, or even better, what will be the choice of the director if the decisions, opinions, and worlds are different? I'm afraid I didn't find it anywhere. And then what will be the role of the members of the world and their decisions? This is also one of the important facts, and it is also important that, once again, I stress that people in the environment where the institution works have an important influence in decision-making, especially when it comes to professionalism, as we are aware that pre-school education and education are the most important segments to ensure our development. For if we are going to raise children and students politically at the beginning, but not professionally, which can result in this, then surely we cannot expect such professional staff as we can guarantee our development and who will know how to live in this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Root.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The amendment to Article 2 of the Act, which we are currently discussing on the composition of the institution's council, is in my opinion, as proposed in the law itself, three-three-three, only balancing the functioning of the institution's world. I think it is right that we have the tasks of the saints of the institutions in particular in this regard. And by the fact that the composition passes, I will say, into a partnership relationship, three-three, not in a relationship, as I have heard advocated by the Liberal Democracy, it is said, to performers and users and we immediately had users, it is said, parents and founders or municipalities, the local community, which is suddenly together. I don't see a three-six ratio here. Not at all. For my concepts and the role that the Institute's world plays, this is actually a three-partite system, where three are equal partners and there are no three-to-six. How the institutions work today, probably here in the sent-ons know those who worked, maybe the professors, I'll say, some work well, others work only formally, others work even poorly. And I don't want to do anything wrong. And I, when you're talking about a grave attack in a school space, would say so, God forbid there's a grave intervention in a school space. We have had too many of these interventions in our school space in our history: from targeted education and so on and would not want our children to experience such interventions and such nonsense as they have, and we have experienced them sometimes. Therefore, it seems very important to me personally that parents play a slightly larger role in the world of institutions, or that parents are also an equal partner. I'll say, in the past, they had parents, if I say very few words, I'll say a lot, because they didn't really have a word on how the school worked. I think that now they will get it, of course, if even in these sacred institutions parents, who will also hope to say something, but not as it has been in the past, because because of the good of their children, they have been quieter than to answer. If I come back, the tasks that the institution has and that there should be a greater role for employees in the world of the institution, I see no need; when it comes to professional matters, even when it comes to the preparation of the annual work plan, the Council of the Institute really accepts the annual work plan, but the Council of the Institute does not prepare it because it is prepared by the Director, as it is prepared by the employees. And here it is necessary for them to be employed in the world of the institution because they accept the annual work plan I do not see any need. I am very much in favour of getting a bigger role, a little more words also from parents, because I would very much oppose if the role of only the founder, who also provides certain financial resources, because I look at the matter in such a way that when money is around too many times then too much to look at it only, can also harm the case which, in this case, says the school, the quality of the school or our children who are in school. I think that this makes this school space more balanced, and that the minister, I would say, diminishes his power in appointing principals and I think he is right. Even in our environment there have been a number of appointments in the last two years, both with us and in the Savina Valley, and I must say that it is wrong for politics or too much to interfere with, so that I support the law as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you. Mrs. Uhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. As I have already said in the presentation, we will not support the LDS amendment to Article 2 because we will support the proposed amendment of the law, which says that the saints will be composed of 3, 3, 3, 3, namely, workers, founders and parents. I mean, it's mostly about teachers today, but we know that employees are also representatives of other staff who are employed in schools. And in big schools, there's something about kindergartens, and it's also right to mention them. I think that such an arrangement as proposed in the law is good, because we are already initially setting equivalent playing conditions and we are not excluding any player, as was said today in the debate. We also do not reduce the role of teachers, we do not humiliate them, we do not exclude them, or we restrict them in the performance of their functions. For we do not interfere with this law in their field. Their area is education, education, and nobody here talks about the assets of teachers, the chambers and so on, where professional decisions are made. It's about the world of institutions. The Council of Institutions, however, has a second task only teachers have. And when you say that it will automatically be six to three you think that the congregation or founder and parents will accept together, I think that in practice it will be many times different, because from my experience I can say that parents and teachers usually receive together and against the founder, especially when it comes to funding requirements for additional programmes, superstandards, renewals and so on. Many times they even continue to speak to the government, to the country, and perhaps another fourth should be put in here as an integral part of the institution. That's why I think this fear is unjustifiable. Then it is also said that 21,000 teachers signed a petition against such adoption of the law. I wonder where the other 22,000 teachers and educators are? What they did not want to give their opinion or disagree with, as their union probably urged them to make a complaint or disagree with the adoption of the law. So I would like to see their opinion or their position. As we say, we will not support the LDS amendment. Also not SD's, because we don't think it's real. It's important that he's ours, even if he's not technically justified. Four, three, four, unions three, four, four, it is important that one combination is not the combination proposed by the government, nor is it because SD reduces the role of parents and what children we talk about if not the children of these parents who are in these institutions and in these schools. Supposedly, they should have a word if they are paying for a child’s care in kindergartens, if they are putting their children in compulsory schools, perhaps they have a right to say or to be responsible for the school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u51	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Once again, a nice hello to everyone. At first, we heard that parents and the local community are against teachers or school representatives. I'm just wondering, how can someone be against someone at school or in kindergarten? Parents, the local community and teachers are interested that education and organization are conducted in a coordinated, quality and, of course, that children and teachers in school feel good about it. Harmonized probably means that, together with the law and the rules adopted, they will agree on how education, educational activities and other activities will be carried out. Quality is certainly the primary role of teachers, of course, with the cooperation of parents and local communities. We probably agree that the basis is quality education and the concern that school life really takes place is that all those involved are children and teachers, so that they feel good, because they can be successful. There's two things that need to be highlighted. The Education and Education Financing Act does not change in the articles setting out the tasks of individual bodies, nor does the articles which define bodies and separate them from management bodies and professional bodies change. The managing authorities, meanwhile, are the highest board of the institution, then the director, his assistant, in certain cases the director and the colleges. Their tasks are described in Articles 46 to 59, which also sets out the tasks of the Council of the Institute. However, the expert bodies are described in Articles 60 to 66. And the professional bodies in kindergarten are the educational choir and professional assets of the educators, and at school are the teaching choir, the departmental teaching choir, the classroom and professional assets. In public higher education, this is a lecture assembly, professional activities and a study commission. For example, several steps need to be taken in order for the annual work plan to enter the world of the institution. The proposal is prepared by the Director, of course, when he chooses proposals from parents, teachers and is also responsible for the implementation of the annual plan. These selected proposals are proposed an annual plan to review the teaching assembly or the lecture assembly which has to give its opinion on this. This is what the Institute's Council accepts because they can again argue why such an annual plan has been prepared. The Board of the Institute is not dedicated to teaching work, but to management matters. The professional decision remains in the hands of teachers. It is important to say something else, we are always talking about teachers and their expertise, but the teacher is not necessarily a representative of the school. School representatives may also be other school workers who are not necessarily teachers and may have no direct connection with the educational process. The current regime has placed these school representatives in a senior position compared to other representatives, who must necessarily cooperate and be equally involved in decision-making. The Novela brings a balanced composition of all three interested groups, namely parents, teachers and local communities. At the same time, there must be a clear trust among them high, and I hope that we will never again speak of anyone against anyone at school or in kindergarten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u54	Thank you. A key word of trust is certainly a key to partnership. But the debates that we listen to talk about trust and the need for trust do not show such confidence in at least one part. They taught me to stand and fall with teachers. I believe so, so I trust the teachers and trust their expertise. I also trust that the basic objective of all teachers is to do well in teaching work. And from this point of view, I find it difficult to understand that the advocates of the changed composition of the school's world claim that it is not a matter of distrust for teachers when they put the partnership in formula three plus three plus three. Teachers in this world, or school workers, if we take them in general, even worse to reduce their numbers, become one third of the world's population, six of them. Now I don't understand how, or whether we don't attribute to teachers that parents, like local community representatives, can be parents and, like parents, local community representatives or teachers, can be intertwined roles. But now we're talking about what principle someone in the school world is called. And I would understand from Mr Ljubeljska's debate that he will support the Social Democrats' amendment, because in our amendment the representatives of the local community should have the same number of representatives in the school world as the employees. So I expect you to support our amendment. However, I cannot agree with that part of your debate, my fellow Member, when you tell us what the names of the representatives of the local community are in the school world. I worked in the city council for two terms, but there are many schools in the city’s world, and there is usually one school in smaller municipalities. To say that the municipal council is not a political body is a little bit of a diversion as to how things are arranged and what decisions are made. It was also possible on the committee to hear that the true mayor of one of the municipalities was responsible for the operation of the school. All the time, I thought that the principal or principal was responsible for the functioning of the school, at the highest level of work, and then went up the hierarchy and down the hierarchy. By talking about the fact that representatives of the local community have not already been voted on by the committee which submits the proposal to the municipal authority, it will not hold and there is a need to know about the functioning of local self-government. I hope that at least at the level of local self-government, we do not fear the words of self-government as some fear when they ascribe to us that we cannot shake off self-government experience. In particular, co-ordination is a key word. And from the point of view of co-ordination, I think it is necessary to reiterate that there is no solid argument for what the current structure is, the current composition of schools needs to be changed. I have also not heard any strong arguments for changing the many other worlds I have talked about before. But the government demands them all the time. When such a change is made, the membership of the saints is changed, and management workers are also changed. To say that these changes will be without consequences, and that they are not political, is indeed a first-class exercise. Again, we are talking about which articles speak about the work of an organ. We haven't changed these articles, but you've changed the composition of the world with your proposal, and the world is deciding on the basic acts behind which the school operates. We are constantly listening to the need to deregulation of the school system, to increase the autonomy of the sexes, to increase the autonomy of teachers. Well, okay, but what does autonomy actually represent? I would like to remind you of a number of discussions with the partial results of the analysis, only the partial results of the analysis of TIMSS knowledge tests. At the time, we wondered what kind of school we wanted, and we all said in one voice that we wanted a quality school. Well, the social democrats are still saying quality public school. And then one of the key arguments was that one of the key lessons was that only the image or just the idea of knowledge in students was significantly higher than the research showed. And now I'm going to ask you if I can add to this what we've experienced in this year's stories and school-scheduling accidents, when we've heard many times the pressures on teachers in class grades, then I ask you what should I do with this autonomy? How do we picture her? The School Council also decides on superstandard programmes. The school council is also an appeal body, the school council will also decide on textbooks and work volumes, and will decide on many things. The role of those who are ultimately responsible for how learning takes place is diminishing. Now I can play and switch words. You're saying the role of teachers in the world doesn't go down, how does it not go down? But if they're the only ones in the world that's getting smaller. And by reducing it by five to three and staying with others, the power of the other two partners is actually increasing. If we understand things in such a way that the representatives of the local community are to keep an eye on the interests of the local community, which are sometimes of a financial nature. I cannot shake the feeling that this government wants to prove, on the one hand, how much it is up to education, how much it gives to know, and on the other hand, it likes to boast about austerity measures. And the number of employees, the implementation of the teaching is also recorded in the work plan and this admission is accepted by the school world. He doesn't just give opinions about him. And in the current force ratio of 3:6, the answer to this question is to whom the power is actually decreasing, while on the other hand the responsibility for the school process is increasing, the answer is very simple. But, dear coalition colleagues and colleagues, I'm afraid my answer to a question is different than yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch. Excuse me, Mr. Ljublješek wants a replica, he's been named. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Your Honor, ma'am. Pity, I respect you as a colleague, and I respect you as a pedagogical worker. But I'd like to ask, I think the magnetogram is already mine, so you can read it. Nowhere did I mention that the municipal council is not a political body. But I said that at local level in the municipal world, political power was scattered, very dispersed. Very scattered. Look at how many council meetings there are in a particular municipal council, that's one. Secondly, I said that the municipal council appoints representatives to the world of the school from prominent citizens who are also influenced in the field of education. He does not appoint politics into the municipal council. That's what I said. I'd like you to read the tape. And the third thing I'm going to replicate is I'm not going to support your amendment, and I said why I won't support it. I will support the amendment of the amendment of the law, not the amendment, but the amendment of the law and the provision that gives balanced power or balanced representatives, both by the teaching assembly or by the school, the workers, the parents and the local community. You're zooming in. You're increasing 4.4 and parents 3, if I understand. And the next thing I know, you're a pedagogist and you're acting as a teacher, and you say, teacher choir, teachers are now in a subordinate position because they're 3:6. But I play the role of the local community, and I say, the local community is subordinated because it is 3:6, the three teachers and the three parents. But one of the parents will say, and I feel subordinate, because we are parents in a minority and we are 3:6, against the local community and against teachers. Let us understand and ask that in fact, and any successor who will discuss will read the basic articles of the powers of the Council, the powers of the director and the powers of the teaching assembly, paragraph 61. No one, with any article, is diminishing the competence of the teaching assembly, nor is it mentioned. The teaching assembly shall also give an opinion on the proposal to appoint a director, which shall not be taken into account. He has three representatives in the school world. You'd put 10 in there, you'd like 9, that'd be the best.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u57	Mr. Ljublješek, time for the replica is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u58	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u60	Thank you for saying so, President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! I will not support the proposed amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club, nor will I support the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. I must say that I do not agree with the fact that in the past 10 years or perhaps 12 years, as far as the functioning of individual boards of institutions in schools has been concerned, everything was ideal, as some of the debaters had previously heard. We, my dear colleague Dr. Gaber, know this very well, you as a former minister, me as mayor. There were a lot of problems. And these problems need to be solved or not to occur in the future. To qualify as performers and users, I have to say that this really bothered me, which was what I was hearing. Professionals, policy users. I don't know where you put your parents' representatives. We know or firmly believe that every parent wants his child to be as successful as possible at school. We also know what parental representatives are called, or that this is determined in the parental world. I can also say that there may be a political connection to school to the greater part. It's more like you gave your parents, at least that's what was said before, to the founders. Now I'm talking about that current relationship that exists, like you said, 5:6. I must say, I am very surprised that no one has mentioned and that there is a policy going on in school. They're on their way. They're on their way. I would be very happy not to go into politics in the future. And I think that's why, as I mentioned earlier, there were problems in some institutions or between all three actors, especially between the founders and the school. I firmly believe that this solution will truly mean balance, but it will mean a balance if some who are to go professional do not go political. And I expect that in the future. As far as the appointment of a director is concerned, I think that the decision is also a good one, and from this very point of view it is right that this balance is more even, that even if I say so now, the local community will have more than one word. As I imagine, the founders finance pre-school education, primary education, as well as the ministry. And in view of this proposed solution, it is also right, or the solution, for the Minister to give only an opinion to the Director, that the composition of the Council is the one proposed by the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you. Is there any other interest in the debate? Yes, then I'm opening a third round of application for discussion. Mr. Loveshek. [[He's quitting.]] Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u62	Thank you. To listen to discussions on how a three-part balanced world will ensure better quality of the world and thus to schools, it is necessary to set up, once again, in the context of other changes in the design of the governance bodies or the worlds launched within two years by the government at different levels. And I stress in particular all these changes, both the Programme Council, and the Council in research activities, including in the design of the Agency's councils, or in the relationship between the public agencies and the Ministry, or in the case of bodies in the composition. Whenever the government has taken such action and, of course, by its majority through Parliament, it has always been argued that it is not an increase in the influence of politics. Or, an increase in the government's influence on decision-making bodies. Practice, I stress, is completely different and does not increase trust. So I don't know why we should just blindly trust that you're defending some self-balance and nothing else when you want the school world to be designed differently than it was before. I don't know what past insults any of you are cooking and you're whole now with this change in the composition of the world of your wounds. But the fact is, there are no professional arguments, no analyses to prove that such a change is necessary. In particular, the Social Democrats are aware of the role of both the local community in the functioning of the school and the role of parents. But one is how it reaches through the life and functioning of the school and the involvement of the school in the environment, and the other is how it is carried out through the authorities of the school. And what we're discussing right now is an organ. And for one more moment, I would like to warn you, which is not alone in education and we also know him from other areas, from RTV forward and back or, say, from the teaching institute - that it is important to appoint principals and principals. On the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, we have repeatedly discussed the appointment of directors and principals, and we have also had some suggestions on how this should be done. That's one of the key questions, and now you're solving it through the composition of the world. I, Mr Minister, do not really believe that the Minister - and you will probably not be Minister of Education by 2050, so that someone will probably come after you, but whoever will, after this model will give an opinion on the Director that he has in fact renounced his influence on the appointment of the Director. He didn't. I even argue that his influence has increased because he is the first to say it and to say how it should be done in a given situation. The Minister's opinion will be binding on some, particularly those who will feel, say, the reputation of this minister or try to give him support, commitment, and will decide as the Minister will think. However, the expertise in appointing directors or directors of public institutions can be seen at several levels. I myself have some experience with complaints by unnamed directors or directors, such as social work centres, where the local community has given up support despite very good professional references. If you think the local community won't give up its support to any principal or principal despite professional references, I don't believe it. There will be political compatibility here, you don't want; the lists on the various commissions are known, opinions, lobbying, we know all these stories. All I am saying is that there is likely to be an even greater impact in the congregations with one school, the impact of local communities and parents on the appointment of directors, and that there is no need for professional criteria to be the main criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Prevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests on the balcony! In fact, today it has been so much said on this subject that I am afraid that whatever I say to myself, I can repeat myself, but I would like to say only this around it somewhere; when I, as a Member, became familiar with these changes in the law on education and education, that is to say with changes in the composition of the institution's world, it seemed quite normal to me. For this move is, in fact, as has been heard many times today, it will balance the composition of the world. This is said to be included in the Holy Institution of the Founder with three representatives of the Council, that is to say parents, also with three representatives and not least teachers. That's what you're saying. It's about this notion of balance. And today it has been repeatedly said or balanced that the composition of the world leads to a more quality work of the world’s institution or leads to better management of the world of institutions. I'm sure. I am convinced that a balanced composition of the world leads to better governance and, of course, I cannot agree with this amendment and, last but not least, I cannot support it. I listened very carefully to the mother's working body's arguments for and against. The arguments for these changes, the arguments that came somewhere from the world of parents who came from the initiative of the company for a pleasant school, not least by the side, of course, of the union of education and education. And, above all, on this side, by the union, education and education, the arguments somehow could not convince me. The arguments that we are going to let go of this, of course, I'm going to say policy in my head that this is going to happen, these are not the most convincing arguments for me. True, local communities are a political body. That's indisputable. However, we have to make a strict separation here, I will say, between the great municipalities and not least among the smaller municipalities, where elections are, of course, I will say, some political games, because only through political parties or independent lists can they run, but then after the elections it is, of course, politics is virtually not in these smaller municipalities, and many times it happens that, finally, even a teacher by the founder comes into the world of the institution. One more thing. The Council of the Institute, as has been said many times today, is a management body, a management body, not an expert council. Not the expert council, therefore, the argument that politics will now be included in the profession, do not hold back, and therefore I absolutely agree with this balance, because the responsibility of the congregation to schools, which is ultimately responsible for the construction of schools, for the maintenance of schools, for the maintenance of material costs, is, of course, a great and ultimately, also the responsibility of the mayor in addition to the school manager. That's why I can't support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Horvath. You've been named. You want a replica. Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u66	Thank you. I'd like to replicate this thesis on the mayor's responsibility. There are quite a few cases in the Slovenian space where mayors have the right to interfere with the functioning of schools and how this works, where this leads, I should also think about it, so I warn you that understanding the principal's function as something subordinate to the mayor can be very bad for school policy-making and for school performance in the professional sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I have no problem supporting the amendment of the law, especially as regards the new structure of the Council of the Institute 3+3+3. Some of you read or fear that through such a structure of the institution, local policy or policy will have too much impact on the functioning of the institution. See if we can freshen up the memory. Ten days ago, local elections were held. I know quite a few principals and teachers who have run on lists in Slovenia of registered political parties. And thank God they are. Why not? This is, after all, the constitutional right and freedom of every individual to be politically defined. Do we then expect that the institutions, as such, will be completely apolitical? No way. Everyone has the right to be politically defined. And that is why I see no problem at all, no danger that from now on solutions or decisions at the highest authority of the institution, that is, in the world of the institution, will be made politically. So, once again, I support this amendment of the law, which redefines the structure of the institution's Council and cannot support the amendments to Article 2 of the LDS and SD colleague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister with colleagues! I must also say that I will be happy to support the proposed solution in the law, and that, of course, I cannot appeal to the arguments put forward here by Members on the left and the right, which in any way defend the "bastion" they established during the previous rule. We know that with this composition of the worlds, they've introduced politics into schools. And it is far from true that this reduces the autonomy and role of teachers. Teachers in the previous system, I mean also when they had decisive power, were often under pressure from the principals and the principal was appointed through the minister. And now I am very pleased that the Minister is giving up this decisive influence. Teachers were under pressure and the composition of teachers in the world of the institution was not accidental. Don't worry that there has been a lot of politics here, and now that they no longer have a decisive impact, there will be significantly less policy here. And teachers will be significantly more autonomous, and in particular I do not accept that they speak about autonomy, the reduced autonomy of teachers, those who have sometimes greatly supported solutions when teachers were actually the regime's employees of the single party system. Ideological fanatics today talk about reducing the autonomy of teachers. It's not like that yet. Here, too, through the practice and knowledge of the municipal council and the local community, I know that there is a much greater knowledge of the effective teaching quality of teachers and administrators than could be seen from Ljubljana, where other criteria worked and decided. Look, this panic like it does now is very similar to what it was, if I remember when Minister Sturm was a short-term minister, he introduced at the end of school, I don't know, singing hymns on the flag. And then they attacked as ideologically, and I don't know what kind of pressure. Everyone was afraid that a piece of domestic education would come to school, that students, students would speak respectfully about their country, that they would know that we had an independent country. You were all against it back then. But when you saw it, people accepted it and understood the lack of the fact that the school was, in fact, largely oriented, I would almost literally say against my own country, against the knowledge of symbols, against the knowledge of the deserving for an independent country. But then slowly, when you came to power again, you took these solutions as well. This law also reduces the political impact on school. The three-partite representation in the world of the institution is significantly better than the current one you are presenting as significantly greater than the greater influence of teachers. Today's too [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] In fact, teachers are still very political. It's all politics. It's all union. But politically oriented. By leader, by leader, and by those who have the greatest influence. And it will also have to be done here that the teachers, the teaching union, will actually fight for what it is actually responsible for, but will not support the old models many times, which did not bring good solutions and positive contributions in education. For this reason, once again, I will support the amendment of the law and this tripartite representation in the holy institutions, as well as the reduced impact of policy through the Minister on the appointment of directors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Nice greetings for everyone, including the Tribune visitors! Thank you very much to President Tsukati for holding the session so far. And the word is also used by my colleague Kokalj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Nice greetings for me, too, Minister with a team, union representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The content that we are discussing today has been discussed several times in this mandate, and I have expressed my position several times, particularly in this respect, that changes in education and education financing and systemic changes themselves are taking place too slowly. In fact, if this change of law, which is now on the table, would not go any further, we have a situation like this right now. If we take a primary school as a institution whose founder is a local community, but can only decide practically how to maintain investment and provide physical conditions for work, it can confirm an annual work plan which covers the content that can be decided only by superstandard activities, and the essential content cannot, in fact, be touched by the local community or the world of the institution or the world of parents, in fact, by anyone who is an essential actor in the implementation of education and education. Such a system is politically closed, it is strongly influenced by a minister who is an absolute political figure - we know that ministers are normally elected functions, and they are usually members of the stronger political parties. I generally welcome the changes that have been proposed, but, as I said, I think they are too weak, they are still too weak and they are going in the right direction. And if I limit myself to the amendment to the composition of the world now. In view of the fact that we compare the institution as an organisation that actually manages certain capital, if it is very simplistic to say - capital is, of course, for the children sent to the institution by parents - the policy, it is said, the local community, must take responsibility for establishing the optimal conditions for it, while the teaching assembly at the head of the principal is the operators. In fact, a kind of management that has to listen to the owner and the founder and implement the programme. In view of this, it is my opinion that teachers should not, in fact, judge this body of the world, because they cannot assess their own work as performers. On the other hand, maintaining mentality, I will say, socialist self-governance, which some part of the policy is also trying to maintain in education through the union, is perfectly logical, because education has always been an obvious very interesting area for the implementation of policies of all kinds, especially in the last decade of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and obviously also of the Social Democrats, but we know that tradition is old. Those of us who studied in school, those who have children in school, those who were the presidents of the world, those who were mayors, we experienced on our own the so-called professional policy of the former head of the Ministry of Education, and we know how these things are being driven. It therefore surprises me personally as a Member that the union does not deal with what it is called for, but it is pure politics. In particular, the Syndicate should advocate for the best possible status of teachers, not just for wages, for their permanent training, for the revision of the rules and procedures for assessing the quality of their work, which is completely flawed, i.e. the current rules for the award of teachers are completely outside the concept of what teachers do in the classroom, but are focused on what teachers do when teaching or outside of school and what they do additionally, which they participate in. This is said to be a completely flawed policy of stimulating and preparing teachers for quality work in the classroom. I expect the new management, the Ministry of Education, to give appropriate attention to this, to burden teachers with finding appropriate textbooks and work volumes at the beginning of the school year with a variety of market offerings, which, for the first time, is extremely expensive for parents, secondly, complicates and puts a lack of confidence in the teacher's work. A teacher, a good teacher, if he is regularly trained, must be able to choose the appropriate methods of Andragog, a teacher and he is qualified to do so and should be trusted to pass this knowledge on to his students and not be given expensive work volumes by market logic, so that teachers do not find themselves, at times, what they are supposed to use, especially here as we know about big business, while teachers need to be stimulated and educated on a regular basis. Not only on the basis of voluntary programmes, if they are prepared for them and then they get promotion points, but the teacher must be encouraged and simultaneously forced and regularly educated to work in the classroom in quality. However, the award should be in accordance with the quality of the work in the class. And that's why, as I said before, I'm surprised the union is dealing with how many performers there will be in the world of the institution. By the way, the world has very little jurisdiction. In addition to appointing the director, and assessing his performance, he actually has very weak decisions. As I mentioned earlier, it's all in the hands of the Ministry. The annual work plan, which, while formally adopted, is practically defined by the so-called profession, which also unconstitutionally often finances what is not compulsory and does not finance what is compulsory. Just an example, textbooks need to be paid, buses for compulsory, cultural, sports and other camps which are prescribed in the annual work plan must be settled by parents at the same time the state provides a certain part of the costs for optional schools in nature and optional camps. What's the logic here? And I hope that this system, which was introduced in the previous decade, will really turn into a teacher who will be a good performer and a child who is the main goal of each school. With regard to the appointment of principals, I very much welcome the move of the current minister or ministry to renounce the politicisation, which was expressed by the Minister's consent to appoint a principal, thus practically he gave the last word and practically also appointed the director and that he gives this weight to the final world of the school, which is in fact the only relevant function of the school council. Everything else, as I said, is practically in the other hands. Therefore, it seems to me that the amendments presented here are trying to maintain some kind of self-government socialism in schools, which is absolutely viable and, on the other hand, would encourage the current school authorities to accelerate this process, to burden the teachers of unnecessary work through the regulations, to reward them for what they do in the classroom and at the same time to burden financial parents by removing a multitude of work volumes and textbooks and to define clear goals and training teachers to carry out these goals. I trust teachers, and they need not be burdened, but to give them the opportunity to train them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u73	Thank you very much. So that we do not get too far away from the debate by practicing and become too general yet I warn you that we are talking about Article 2 and the four amendments, and of course you know their content. I see a few more speakers, so I'm opening the next application for the debate. Please. Thank you very much. Dr. Gaber has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. This debate is a debate on possible aspects of education in one country. Not so long ago we heard a typical example of resonating about state education. Interestingly, he is most talked about by those who say they oppose self - government education. In this country we have public education in accordance with the legislation at this moment. These are pretty important differences. If I understand some, they believe that the line in the functioning of education is very simple, it is very close to military. The parish priest, perhaps even the priest, together tell us how to act in school, one textbook is prescribed, and we heard that then teachers should not be allowed too much to decide how to educate themselves, the word used, I quote, "force" them to be properly educated. It may be most appropriate for paramilitary units to carry out this education, but if teachers do not respond and come to this education, they should be informed that they do not have the patriotic sense. This logic that we've been listening to here is at odds, I think, with the time we're living in. As it is also disputed that the ratio of six users to school has so far been six who are investing their expectations of results for their children and for their inhabitants and, on the other hand, five who are most responsible for how the school process is running at the level of performance, that such a relationship, in which it has been relatively balanced, has given users more power than operators to change into a ratio of 6:3. We do this most likely, this imbalance for a very simple reason. Here we were told the logic behind it. Actually, we don't even need teachers in these worlds. They're here to do what they're told. This way, ladies and gentlemen, if this is the truth of your proposal, education in Slovenia must not go. The fact that some in time decided to talk about solutions that were not appropriate at the time is their problem. It seems that the goal is simple; to strengthen, otherwise, the hidden Ministry of Pre-Agreement to the appointment of principals, by making decisions in the saints. This way, education doesn't improve, it doesn't improve.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Bones has the replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u76	I think I was misinterpreted in two cases. The rules of procedure say that a replica is when someone is misunderstood. I didn't mean it the way you interpreted it. Each service has its limitations and its requirements, and I think that if teachers were forced by the Ministry to offer them a quality 14-day programme each year for additional education, that this was not forced as you interpreted it, but a great help. As for, before you said, paraphrasing the priest and the mayor, it made a decision, it's still two, it's more than now the minister, it would certainly be, if I paraphrased a little bit like you, more plural than it is now. Of course, when the last part you quoted from, I think, at least that's how I understood, from my debate that we want to get rid of teachers, in this, in the world of schools, that we want to get rid of ourselves and do what they're told, I certainly didn't say that, you said that. But it's true that teachers are supposed to do what I'm about to tell them by your own means, what the profession tells them to do in class, and that's what I meant by that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Maybe an explanation of why I let Mr. Kokalj use the replica. Article 70 makes it quite clear that we have two cases where a replica is allowed: when the debater was misinterpreted or misinterpreted. Nowhere in this article does it require that it also be mentioned by name and surname. Now, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Secretary has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. For the last time, Members and Members of Parliament, the professional public, I do not know if it is tripartitely composed, but welcome. In these few seconds, I would like to ask you once again to support this amendment to the law. Once again, I would like to point out that there is really no reason to dramatise the situation. I hope you will understand that this is a novel that introduces modern and democratic principles into the composition of the institution's world, as well as into the entire system of decision-making in the field of education. Once again, I would like to express my surprise at such a great lack of trust in parents and local self-government as to be included in the entire decision-making system. I believe that when we are talking about a partnership between all the factors that decide in the school system, here I am talking again only about administrative work, governance, trust is very important and that all the factors are in an equal and equal relationship. Certainly, though, it is not a matter of having a larger number, but it is difficult to talk about a partnership. I would like to stress once again that this is not about reducing the role of teachers in the school system. On the contrary, with various measures we want to increase the professional autonomy of teachers and also improve material conditions, for example, wages are what they have never been. I am also convinced that at the end of my term, I will not leave any big pay gap, so there is no fear of having any negative attitude towards teachers in any way. On the contrary, I know that the school system is based on the satisfaction of teachers. Once again, I reject all possible interpretations that I am trying to make with this novel, with these innovations to strengthen my position in the entire decision-making system, even at - god understands if - to appoint directors. Despite the fact that I am giving up consent as a final "hot", I am only one of the equal stages of the whole process, where I give only an optional opinion, and yet some understand this so well that I am thereby increasing my power and influence. I hope that most understand that we are also trying to depoliticise the school field in this way. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] As an interesting thing, at first they even asked me [[30 seconds left]] whether this change also means that it is necessary to join one of our parties; for example, even such a form or matrix was in the head of some directors. I can proudly say that this is not necessary, and that teachers can be politically active, active and must separate their school function from their own private political orientation. And I'm gonna stick to that philosophy after all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Since there are no more debaters, I conclude the debate. Mr. Mogue, time has stayed, but as you know, time is not shared in the amendments. That's the practice, I'm sorry. By closing the debate and we will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 34th item of the agenda. It is now quite clear that this will not be until half past six o’clock in the evening, but most importantly before. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to 25. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO DETERMINATE THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE TRAINING OF CHILDREN WITH SPECIAL NEEDS - EPA 1018-IV, reduced procedure. We have two hours and 25 minutes to discuss. The proposal for a law has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so I am asking the Minister to cancel. So we can go straight to the report of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. And there is no President or Vice-President, and the views of the Group are therefore presented. The word has magic. A waste that's not there. And then Mrs. Uhan, on behalf of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u80	Hello again. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Children's Guidance Act with special needs affects the Commission's composition, which directs and decides on children with special needs. From the current broader composition of the Commission goes to the 3rd Member Commission. However, the President of the Commission will act professionally, professionally. This gives greater emphasis to the expertise of the Commission. However, the second amendment to the amendment to the Law mainly refers to the fact that work will be done on a new basis, especially in the group education of children with special needs. Additional professional assistance shall be provided in a specific group, depending on the type and degree of deficit, obstacles or disturbances in the department or outside the department, the law is true. It is important for us in New Slovenia that children can still be treated individually, as suggested by the type and degree of deficit, obstacle or disorder. We certainly believe in New Slovenia that certain children need additional individual treatment, especially children who are mute, deaf, deaf, visually impaired and similar or with similar disorders or obstacles. We will support these changes in the law in Novi Slovenija. However, we warn the government that this law does not save children who are not included in institutions of education, and these are children who are not in kindergarten, and that professional assistance is much more needed. These children are relatively large in Slovenia and are not equally cared for, so it is also necessary to find an appropriate systemic solution for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Prevc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Once again, a nice hello to you all. The law that is before us deals with particularly sensitive content, since children with special needs represent a particularly sensitive population, for which education and education are provided, society must help parents and take care of them with all necessary attention. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the fundamental purpose of amending the law, and some issues have arisen in the consideration of which the profession has pointed out and should still be examined in the solutions to the law, or defined in the sub-legislative acts. The bill should also include children who are not in kindergarten and who are entitled to early professional treatment. However, since the marriage proposal does not contain this, many children and families remain in an unequal position. The problems and consequences of such a decision are evident in the further training of these children. The basic purpose of the proposed law is to fully define the child guidance procedure with special needs. The law eliminates the numerical and substantively questionable composition of the first and second stages committees, which will be made up of only three permanent members after the new one instead of six. And commission presidents are supposed to be in future professionals. It is also new that the Steering Commission has drawn up an expert opinion on the basis of the mandatory documentation annexed to the request for initiation of the procedure. A proposal for amendments to the law, as I have already mentioned, has been made with a number of professional proposals that are worth listening to. For example, the Sunček Trade Council considers that the proposal does bring about good changes at the procedural level and undermines the content and importance of the professional work with children with special needs. The Ministry is also given more powers to take professions. The transition from an individual to a group mode of implementation of additional professional assistance for children with special professional needs is not permissible and, in the opinion of the professional public, constitutes the abolition of professional assistance for many children. The representatives of the Blind Association warned that for children with impaired vision group treatment was not appropriate at all. At least the maximum number of children in the group should be determined and the area of education should be specified, for example, for certain subjects such as mathematics, English. Child guidance procedures with special needs are long-term and usually take months, as experts also point out. Parents often find themselves in severe distress when they do not know by the last day which school their child will be directed to. It would also be necessary to lay down deadlines for the completion of the procedure. The transition between programmes should be precisely regulated by sub-legislative acts. The existing and unchanged Article 13 of the draft law has not in practice come to life and should therefore be more appropriately defined. The State should establish a system of regular school networks that, in addition to primary schools with a tailor-made programme, would receive children with reduced mental disabilities, while also allowing others with moderate disabilities and additional specific problems to pass between programmes. Existing learning programmes are rigid and prevent progress within the programme to children who, in addition to making it easier for them to have a specific problem in particular areas. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, despite the above comments, we will support the bill's proposal because we believe that the proposed amendments nevertheless bring better transparency and rationalisation, and more group work, allow individual work where necessary, where necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mrs Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Allow me to begin by saying that I am surprised that the government in the opening presentation did not want to say anything more about the law itself and, as is clear, the government did not end up applying. So I'm afraid that today's debate, or what we're going to be listening to in this room, is just for our own good. It is true that one of the most important innovations is that the law opens up the possibility of an integrated form of education for all those children who can successfully follow the educational work or teaching in regular schools and schools, with adapted implementation and additional professional assistance, and also enables students with special needs to adapt equipment. But I'm asking, and that's what I'd like to get today. Marriage doesn't solve children's problems with autism. The problem of children who are visually impaired or blind children also solves very badly. The representative of the Ministry made it clear on the working body that this law, as has already been said, does not solve the issue of children with autism, and that the problem of children or the orientation of children who are not in kindergartens or who do not come to the commission is still open. If the Ministry is aware of the open issues, I ask why it does not solve them under a specific existing or existing law that is before us today. Last but not least, why are we re-adopting the law after a reduced procedure? It's a major change. Important changes, according to experts, will even have a negative impact on children. The law regulates the treatment of preschool children worse than is regulated in current legislation. This is a group of children who are not targeted through a guidance commission and who are not categorised and identified for some disorder in the pre-school period. Most of the talks on the parent’s working body were about Article 4. Unfortunately for me, this time the coalition has also undermined all professional opinions, opinions and also serious warnings. We have already heard in the presentation of my colleague's position in front of me that in these amendments, competence is taken over by professions. I don't understand how someone who says that the content of the law is bad, that the content of the law means even a step back and will have negative consequences on that set of children that this law pursues. How can such a person or a group of such ones say that they will still be nodding to this marriage? It is unacceptable and difficult to accept any logic from the point of view of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group that we should enter into the law a transition of treatment from an individual to a group way of implementing additional professional assistance for children with special needs, solely and solely for the purpose of rationalising costs. The Minister, who is himself more than once, I will say, even at this meeting last week, how important it is that we look for what is true in the child, to build on this individuality, to agree on a group way of implementing additional professional assistance. And I stress in the news in children, in those children who already have a very specific need. In the opinion of the professional public, such a measure constitutes a gradual abolition of professional assistance for many children. We are afraid that such willful conduct by the Minister of Education or the Government without a profession and without, according to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, a key actor, this is a social resource, meaning a shift, a serious shift in positive policy in the area of care and assistance to children with special needs. A different approach is needed in this area and a multi-disciplinary approach is needed, which unfortunately is not covered by this law. The law also sets longer deadlines for issuing a decision on guidance, and the six-month period is considered to be a proposal from the child's point of view, because the child needs more intensive professional work and treatment immediately more because these children have problems and deficits in the early period and you do not want to, hand in heart, here in the past in the Slovenian space has shown the greatest disadvantage of our system. We will not support the law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The DeSUS position will be presented by Mr Yelen. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Members and Members of Parliament. Government representatives. In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposal for a law because we believe that the basic law on children's orientation with special needs needs needs needs needs to be added. It is the duty of the State to enable children with special needs to receive adequate education. The possibility of equal inclusion in society is of particular importance for such a child who, due to disability or developmental disturbances, is also of particular importance before this integration and therefore the right to education and training for active life in society and its financing to such persons are also constitutionally guaranteed. Slovenia is a social country, and in the field of education and education of children with special needs, as a two-fold social disadvantage, due to low age and development disorder, it is not only incumbent on the social state to abandon any measure that would impede the child’s overall development and equal opportunities in this development, but also on the child’s personal development. In the Group of Members, we believe that the law that we are now considering follows these principles. It is not the same as some that we believe that the reduction in the number of child guidance committees in appropriate programmes does not violate their rights, as it will still be based on the principle of professionalism after the renovation. We also support the proposed provisions on the decision-making process itself, as we estimate that, on the basis of such a formulation, the procedures will be significantly more frequent and more rational and that the procedures will be more child-friendly, as there is an unnecessary duplication of reviews in experts of the same profession. It is true that the proposal is geared towards the collective implementation of additional professional assistance, but we stress that individual aid is not disabled; the proposal will continue to be implemented both in the department and outside the department on a case-by-case basis, as indicated by the type and degree of obstacle or development. This law regulates an extremely sensitive area, which also requires certain financial resources. Given that the proposal is extremely austerity-oriented, in the DeSUS Group, we propose that the savings be diverted to the completion of special programmes and to the necessary equipment that children with special needs certainly need. In addition, the data show that both regular primary schools and schools with adapted programmes and special institutions are not yet fully prepared and trained to implement the 2000 legal provisions, which is an additional reason for the use of savings only for these purposes. Members of the DeSUS, however, note that little or no attention is paid to pre-school children, which is to children under 6 years of age. While such children are regularly, daily and systematically brought up in kindergartens, the fact is that the inclusion of a child in kindergartens depends on parents and their economic power, which clearly leads to discrimination against such children. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we propose that the Government act as soon as possible to this end, so that even the youngest children with special needs will have the right to early professional treatment. Otherwise, in the DeSUS Group of Members, we have assessed that this bill eliminates the shortcomings that have arisen in practice and that it is essential not to violate the rights already acquired by our children, so we will also support the complementary proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubeljšek has the floor, on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u88	Honourable President, Honourable Assembly, Honourable Minister and other representatives of the government! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Children's Guidance Act with special needs, because we are convinced that the proposed amendments and supplements are professionally thought out and proposed for the benefit of children. This also convinces us that a larger number of non-governmental organisations and representatives of the interested public have been included in the debate, whose comments and proposals have been taken into account and adopted to a greater extent. We accept and believe the School Minister's remarks that the scope of departments and students with special needs for the future will be the same as in previous years, that the work of commissions will be more effective after a new one and that the law brings better guidance procedures for both children and parents. While the law brings a number of changes and additions, it does not interfere with the concept of child guidance with special needs. For example, what we support in the SDS Group in the SDS Group is, among other things, a mandatory verification of the appropriate direction. The decision on the need for verification shall be left to experts in the proposal and may also be determined for professional reasons. We also support the provision that a child’s tutor or teacher may participate in the steering committee, since he knows the child most. He will be invited to participate by the President of the Commission and will be invited to a meeting of the Commission. We can rightly expect that with the additions of the law to children who need appropriate professional assistance, these will be received earlier and that all the procedures needed to guide the child to the appropriate programme will be quicker. Also because a pedagogical approach is being introduced, thus transferring competences from the area of social protection to education. It is important that, on the basis of the expert opinion of the Commission, a programme of education and education will be established, the form and manner of implementation of additional professional assistance will be determined, the human resources, spatial, material and other conditions that must be provided for the education and education of the child. The law provides for a longer period within which the competent authority must issue a decision on direction from the initiation of the procedure, which we support in the parliamentary group, because we cannot and cannot afford to make mistakes in order to leave children without guidance in the relevant programme. The proposal also adds criminal provisions for the non-execution of the provisions of the law. The proposal for a bill of professional rationalisation, such as a reduction in the number of members and a different composition of the professional steering committees, which have been renumbered with seven members, should be followed by a new Commission composed of three members, namely a defectologist, a psychologist and a pediatrician or a specialist in school medicine, and bring some favourable financial effects, which is not negligible. In this way, the coming legacy is not intended to lead to a loss of professional assistance for the education of children, nor to reduce the hours of additional assistance for them, but can be redirected to special programmes or aimed at professional education and the fulfilment of teachers and professional workers who are still particularly concerned by these children. Finally, the law also aligns the definition of children with special needs, modern, social, pedagogical, psychological and medical professions and the new concept of children with emotional and behavioural disorders is used. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support the amendment and additions to the law, because we believe that they represent an improvement to the law in force so far and an end to the shortcomings that have arisen in practice. Proposal for amendments and amendments to the law, [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] which, therefore, brings quite a few changes and innovations in directing children to special programmes that are welcome, which we cannot and should not allow to leave children with special needs without guidance in a specific programme that would allow them to develop all their abilities and capabilities. [[...]] We will certainly support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u89	Thank you very much. And he will be the last to present the position of the LDS, Dr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u90	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, we cannot support this law in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. It falls into a set of laws that, instead of upgrading the education system in Slovenia, with a special sense of care, would look for solutions that would be better than existing ones in places where we need further consideration, although they would do the opposite. Allow me to begin by saying that, otherwise, I believe that the procedural part of the law needs to be upgraded. It's got some weak spots in it. Some solutions even in this law are such that a person can support them. However, the basic orientation of the law is wrong. Again, it is a message that we are giving to the public in Slovenia, which we have been giving to schools for children with special needs and schools in which we have been trying to integrate as much of this population as possible for a decade. When we write down in Article 4 that additional professional assistance is carried out in a specific group, depending on the type and degree of deficits, obstacles or disturbances in the department or outside of the department, we can also do something exactly the opposite of what has been the logic of the last decade and is also the logic of the development of European systems. The emphasis must be on the individual part. Our amendment to the Committee stated: Additional professional assistance shall be provided either individually in the department or outside the department, but may also be carried out in a special group or outside the department, depending on the type and extent of the deficiencies. What's the difference, I think it's obvious. If we really want to do what is necessary for children with special needs, we can allow them to make as much contact as possible with the population that is dominant in school if we want to reduce their deficits, we need to work with them individually. At that time, there is a chance that some success would be at least appropriate. However, if the focus is on group work, then we will categorize, then we will have indistinguishable larger groups of children in whom children will have different needs for special treatment, but teachers and teachers will have to deal with them in the group. He can't afford it. Europe is not going this way. And I would very much like the coalition to be clear that at this point the law is wrongly conceived. In doing so, we have some very concrete proposals, and we have made two more additions. Once again, we think that the unnecessary reduction in the role of teachers and teachers in this process, when it comes to how a child should be treated, is essential in our view that, at some stage, not necessarily as it has been arranged now, we can, in a different way, agree on this, but we must always also ask the educator, a teacher, how to approach the problems of a particular child. And another of our expectations is that we will only agree on it, given that it is children with special needs, and that we will also make sure that at least once in five years that this child is progressing and that the decision that the person has received about the classification in a particular group is now holding, or that it needs to be adjusted because the child, let us hope, has progressed and needs a different treatment. This would be needed as a complement in order to be acceptable and a modern law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on Article 6 and the two amendments of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. The list and contents of both of you were received in document of 27.10.2006, so I am putting to the debate Article 6 and both amendments of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I'm opening the application. Please report to the one you want to discuss. The first word is Mrs. Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. I applied in the first place because I would like to point out once again what I have already highlighted or pointed to in the opening statement of the Slovenian National Party Group's position. According to the Slovenian National Party’s assessment, the law is flawed or the solutions in it are not as they should be. According to many, I will say, experts are solutions that will even have negative consequences for children, which are said to be for children with special needs. I will say that I am sorry that, in fact, very few articles have been left open after the parent's working body and there are actually very few possible changes or changes in the form of amendments. The amendment to Article 6 will be supported by the Slovenian National Party. We will support it because, according to our assessment, it follows quality in this area. As stated in the bill, allow me to read: "In the steering commissions a tutor or teacher can participate." We have also listened by coalition Members to the importance of this segment, the teaching and teaching staff, because it is precisely the teachers who know such a child the most. That is why this word can be completely superfluous in this bill, and let it be a kind of obligation if teachers and educators are the ones who accompany the child, then let them cooperate, not just conditionally in these commissions. By the way, I've pointed out earlier and I'm sorry the government doesn't have time for the government not to report the time in the debate on this law. Finally, I would also like an explanation, a respected minister, who is still very important under this law. While I was alone with the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs, I expected that, last but not least, the ministries in question were so cooperative that they could find the right solution, I addressed the question or initiative of this law that we are considering today. This is that children who have a specific form of autism can make it easier for children to take the form of autism; however, these children can follow a regular kindergarten, a regular school, but need individual professional help. This law you've drawn up in your ministry doesn't solve this problem. Although the Minister of Labour favours such a solution, it is not the Ministry of the Interior, as he says. I ask and hope that I will also get an answer, how will children with autism receive adequate professional assistance, not in the form of societies, but that they will be able to monitor the regular educational process? It is a solution, and it is also a solution to parents who care for such a child. Usually 24 hours a day is needed because there are no suitable programmes or institutional protection for such children in Slovenia. Such parents usually leave their jobs, are without social assistance, are at home caring for the child, and are prepared to monitor their child’s regular education, offer help to such a child in the education process. But this help needs to be arranged at the legal level. And as we can see, and as the Ministry's representative has pointed out, the law that we are considering today is a law that, in my opinion, is a national law in this area, does not solve this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Once again, I ask Members and Members to try to focus on Article 6 and the current amendment. And Dr. Gaber has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. We propose that, although the text of Article 26, paragraph 5, is all within the same Article, we correct it, amend it pettyly to read it; there is a tutor or teacher involved in the steering commissions who carries out educational work with a child with special needs, and when children are targeted with emotional and behavioural disorders, a representative of the competent centre for social work must participate. What's the difference between ours and yours? Only in the word "may". We agree with your intention, because I think we understand it correctly, that there is no need for the Commission to go through everything in equal numbers, and that this burdens the entire process of consideration and increases costs. However, by withdrawing this word "may" we would like to make a commitment to at least one point in the treatment of the teacher, the teacher, to gain insight into what the decision is. This voice, those who will then have to care for or this profile, which will have to care for this child’s treatment, seems essential to us. With a few reflections, we expect to be able to accept this supplement. We equally believe that we could also adopt our Supplement to Article 31 of the Act, which is being amended within Article 6, and that it would be considered that the Commission for Guidance in the expert opinion should set a time limit for verifying the appropriateness of the guidance to be established, and that period could be from one, somewhere between one and five years. If the Commission does its job professionally, it must be able to assess when within this timescale it will look at what the results are necessary, not only if it so wishes or does not, and how the programme it has set has been successful, how it has been in the best interests of the child. We are deliberately giving very long deadlines for this not to be too much, because this could mean once again if the deadline were shorter, unnecessary paper work, while at the same time it seems to us that it cannot be left to anyone to decide whether or not to check how this programme is running. These supplements do not solve the essential problem that the profession draws attention to. I would like to draw particular attention, even if there is no division between the opposition and the position. You have also received very clear messages in the coalition, and it has even been presented here that there is a very questionable shift in the core in Article 4 from individual treatment, and this, once again, is questionable, often not particularly effective, but has significantly greater potential for it to be effective than group treatment. The group's consideration should indeed be an exception, but not, as it is now, a shift from individual to group, but it can also be individual. So I'd very much like you to get rid of this problem on your own. If you do not stop the law in this procedure, try to come as soon as possible with a new one to correct this mistake, and at least these little things could be fixed here today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Dr. Slavinec still has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Right where Dr. Gaber finished, I want to continue, because this is a change that means a certain savings on one side, but I would like to point out here what the negative side of this savings is. So, do we really save so much that on the other hand we wouldn't lose more because those who are most needed - and I stress that not so much - would really be worth saving here. I am convinced that there are many other holes in this vessel, I believe, even many larger ones that are worth blocking before or at least a small reduction, and where this leakage, if blocked, will also significantly less harm the very implementation of children's education with special needs. But the next thing is the presence of teachers in guidance, because it's okay if you need a doctor, a psychiatrist, a defectologist, but teachers are the ones who work with them at last. And that is why it is even more important that, given their direct experience, they also tell us what this orientation should be and, of course, the purpose of the special treatment, the special instruction of children with special needs, that they advance faster than if they did not have this special treatment and, of course, we want that their progress to be monitored and, on the basis of this, that this deadline, which we have foreseen here, can be considered to be reasonable up to five years, that each of these orientations and expert opinions will be checked and thank God if the Commission can also find out that someone or to find progress and on the basis that they will classify or classify it, will target another group. These are certainly meaningful proposals that are worth at least reconsidering, and I am sure that the first one on savings will certainly endure another broader debate and is worth it. As it is said, here we will cover a very, very small hole, which can help many greatly, not least their training for the most independent life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I'm still gonna open another round of applications. Please. Minister, I can see he signed up. The other one's electronic. Check-in is on. Thank you very much. We have two discussers and a minister. Mag. Tremendous, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Things are going on so fast today that we have a matter ahead of us, so I hope that you will not "repent me" before I begin talking about the two amendments to Articles 26 and 31, but I am sorry that I have not been able to present the opinion of the Social Democrats' Group on the draft law that we are considering, because we are aware that the resolution of the education of children with special needs is of particular importance not only for children but also for parents and that teachers involved in this process have a great responsibility and a great deal of readiness for education, so that the tasks they face can be done as quickly as possible. The second question is what are the solutions presented in this law. If I am judging by the experiences that have been heard on the parent's working body, then at least that debate on Article 4 of the proposed law is worth all the attention and it would also be worth serious consideration, is it not the individual treatment of children with special needs that has now come to the fore and comes to the fore of a group discussion? This calls for different approaches, will there also be a different burden on the providers of this education, and the question is whether the quality of this education will be the same as for more efficient individual treatment of children with special needs? Since the debate also mentioned that we are facing the demands or expectations of special groups of children, let me say that in the Group of Social Democrats as a group, individuals or as President of the Committee on Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, I also know the views of parents of children with special needs, in particular with two special needs. These are those children who are either blind or visually impaired or children with autism, and let me say here that I will not only be critical, in particular as regards the diagnosis for autistic children, I hope that at least some step has been taken here in the National Assembly, along with two ministries, that at least one of the problems will be solved in the diagnosis. Now for the two amendments. In fact, these things that I have discussed are also related to what we are discussing because in Article 26, paragraph 5, we say that a tutor or teacher may participate in the steering commissions, which conducts educational work with a child with special needs. Well, because today some have referred to me as a pedagogy, although I have been thinking for myself for some time now that I am a politician, in my teaching practice I also had to do with a student with 7% vision in high school, and I must say that only with the cooperation of those who were professionally able to help and in my cooperation could lead this student to the completion of secondary education, but unfortunately not to the study course he wanted to study. You won't believe it. He wanted to be a tourist guide. It is simply that I think it is essential that a tutor or teacher participates in the steering commissions, which carries out educational work with a child with special needs, because he and the child are more than those with a rich professional knowledge, but the specifics of each individual child are such that it is right that he or she participates in these commissions does not mean an increase in the number, because those, even so, can leave the three who are regular members, but are also involved by the educator or teacher. You can also understand this by supporting the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats of the House of Liberal Democracy's amendment to the 26th Article. However, I have already supported the position on the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport that the first paragraph of Article 31, which, as a conditioner, provides that if the steering committee considers that it is necessary to check the appropriateness of the orientation to the education and education programme, it is necessary to set a deadline. I think it would be good to listen to the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club, which would have abandoned this conditionality and instead of conditionality, set a general requirement or position for the Commission to set a time limit for the expert opinion to verify the appropriateness of the direction. This also leaves the same time barriers as the first paragraph of Article 31, so that this period may not be less than one year and not longer than five years. So we are totally following this time, but what would be is not something left to be judged, but it is simply within this time limit to be determined. However, I think it would be possible to better monitor appropriateness, but it is not so likely to be appropriate, but perhaps one of the measures is no longer needed or any of the measures is still needed. Therefore, it seems to me that things need only be monitored, but without excessive frequency of meetings or anything like that, but given the particular need, however, it is good to write this down in our opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs. Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u100	Thank you very much. As I have understood from your speech, Mr President, that the Minister will also be given the floor, allow me to formulate another question to which I hope to receive an answer. Of course, it is linked to the amendment under paragraphs 2 and 31 of the Act. It is also appropriate, in my opinion or assessment, to maintain the mandatory verification of the appropriateness of the orientation to the education and education programme. It's simply that, and I'll say, the times when we were sorting children into those who didn't have special needs and those who had special needs and the first metals into one basket, the other into another basket. Those days are over. And the profession has made enormous progress in this area. Huge progress in terms of individual treatment of each individual. Children are individuals and it is so necessary to treat children as individuals. Everyone has their own needs, different from the needs of another child. So much more should we be aware of this when talking about children with special needs. I simply do not understand why this mandatory verification of the relevance of a programme or the orientation of a child to the programme should be deleted. I think the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is positive. And speaking of working with such children, this amendment certainly contributes more to quality work. It is simply that such a verification obligation actually discusses whether or not it dictates monitoring the progress of the child who has been classified and, of course, determining whether the decision in this classification of the child has been correct. I will support the amendment because I think it's a well-intentioned amendment. And I think it would make sense for the Minister to make an assessment of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Minister Dr. Beast.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! As in the previous case, I also ask you this time to support the confirmation of this novel law on children's orientation with special needs. As you know, the novel regulates two key areas, one is the directional area and the other is the composition of commissions. We're sure that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u103	Mr. Secretary, just give me a moment to explain. Indeed, you are running out of time, but given the exceptional vitality of the matter, I am giving you five more minutes if Members and Members agree. [[Back-up advertising.]] Then I can't do that. Then I apologize if I [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u104	I had five minutes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u105	Yeah, it's just, I'm sorry. [[...]] I see some procedural. Dr. Gaber first, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u106	I apologize, Mr Vice President, but since we are in a position to discuss this on an open stage, I would ask my colleague Mojet to withdraw this disagreement. The reason is simple: my colleague Moze is right, the government has made a mistake and has not reported the time. However, it seems to me that the content is only such that it would suggest an exception this time and allow the Minister to explain the Government's position on what he has heard here. So, buddy Rudy, if it's possible for your hand to stay on the table, I'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I agree with Dr. Gabro, and I count on Mr. Mohet's nobility. I would also like to give the floor to Mrs Žgajner Tavš, if I may, but then, Mr Moze I have this opportunity to give my word in exceptional cases. And since it was an initiative on your part, Mrs. Žgajner Tavš, perhaps you?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u108	My colleague, Dr. Gaber, has actually taken over my procedural proposal, so I'm joining him if it helps, even on my part.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you so much for understanding. Minister, now you have a word, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u110	Thank you very much for this proposal, which allowed me to conclude the debate and explain and perhaps answer a question. Look, I am fully aware that the future of education in the world and in particular in Europe is strongly linked to addressing the issue of children with special needs. In order to increase the proportion, studies also show, the children who will receive special treatment, also due to the complexity of society, the post-modern society, and that the philosophy of a single and uniform class is becoming less and less government. This means, at the same time, that school systems will also be given increasing attention to material resources and other intellectual capacities, in order to make the situation as easy as possible and to try to maximize the potential of each individual. What we want to do with this novel is try not to break things down. This particular area has been rather messy for us and also recklessly organised, too many members of the Commissions, then too many commissions themselves, we wanted to define more clearly the procedures and the way in which decisions are taken. Even in a sense, it is more kind that, as long as a child has certain tests from doctors, it is not necessary to obtain them again and so on. This has also led to a reduction in the number of compositions resulting from highly professional, from psychologist, defectologist, pediatrician. The more expert commission, the competent commission, which will decide on the direction of children with special needs, I think they could not provide. It is true, however, that the subject of the amendment, in order to involve teachers in the decision-making process in some cases of a parent teacher, this novel does not in any way close these doors, but also makes it possible to do so in the word "may". However, as far as verification is concerned over a period of time, we have also left here the Commission, which is competently composed to decide whether or not it is necessary. I don't know who could have made a more substantive decision than a committee of this kind, but I don't know why they would have shown such a committee composition a certain degree of mistrust in advance. I think that we can trust the expert opinion of this committee, but this is certainly more rational and prudent than prescribing a standard, even a time frame, when it should be done, even when it is not necessary. There will be cases like this, and there will be no need for verification. As far as moving the thesis - about moving from individualization to more group treatment. In some cases, it is even good that the law also allows group additional professional assistance, especially when it comes to the issue, as we call it, of a lack of emotional intelligence, such treatment is much more appropriate than individual treatment. Similarly, they have a solution in Germany, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. That's not what this is about. But as far as the issue of autism is concerned, we've been dealing with this phenomenon quite recently because it's a relatively new phenomenon. We have even introduced an experiment in the area of pre-school education, which, together with the education institution, is strictly and thoroughly monitored. It is an phenomenon that we do not know whether it needs special treatment orientation or whether it is a widespread phenomenon in other forms of deficit. We're gonna have to come up with a lot of things before we can label this phenomenon. You can trust me to do everything we can to help the parents you've talked about and the children to avoid the phenomena you've been talking about. I believe autism also needs a professional approach. The system must provide an answer to this phenomenon, and I believe that we will find it in the near future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Before opening the reopening round, I would like to explain why the present complication has taken place. Because of chance or intention, the government has not declared time for discussion and would take advantage of this opportunity, Mr Minister, as a recommendation to the government that when we have amendments, when we have open articles, please report some time, because experience shows that Members and Members are asking questions to which they expect an answer and we cannot give an answer if there is no time to report. As a matter of fact, that's an exception. Only if there is a question to be raised in the next debate will we not be able to repeat this exception. Now I'm reopening my application. The word is from a colleague, Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Maybe just for the first amendment, and then I'll wrap it up, because the debate is virtually impossible. I find it difficult to fully summarize the Minister's claim on the composition of the three-member commission. I still estimate that during the period of preschool education, those who accompany the child are those who can now think, eight hours a day, even less, or perhaps even one hour more. And the teachers are the ones who know the child, I'll say, firsthand, more than he knows him, say, a pediatrician who sees him once a year or for two years on systematic examinations or in case the child gets sick. I estimate that the amendment under number 1 is still meaningful and should be supported, so that the appeal should be both to the Minister and to the representatives of the coalition parties to listen and support this amendment, which in fact does not mean anything negative and will not, I believe that it will not have a negative impact on the functioning of the Ministry itself. As for autism, Mr. Secretary, autism is not a phenomenon, but a disorder. Autism is already known in Slovenia, and last but not least, a society has been established that writes and describes this disease or disorder in a long and wide way.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much. And Dr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Look, Comrade Beast, I think it would be easier to talk about the whole school system if a little less of the belief was at work that things were going in the right direction in the last 15 minutes. For example, when it comes to regulating the care of children with special needs, people like Dr. Škoflek, Dr. Košir, Dr. Skalar, etc., large names from this area and people who have been far ahead of us both in a certain area, have taken a lot of steps in the right direction. They behaved rationally, and I think it shows together how to find ways to build some solutions. This solution to the greater emphasis on individual treatment is a trend that is the European trend. No one speaks, not in the profession, but in that part of the policy, which knows little about the fact that there should be no group treatment anywhere, that there is no useful group treatment, but that there is a dominant line, a dominant way of directing, highlighting possible better results of individualisation of the approach. This is something that is acceptable everywhere, so it does not make sense for us, in our law, who already knows this article, to shift our focus. We say that this and this treatment is therefore group, the one that is real, but of course it can also be individual and we will have that. This is support for one part of the profession, as well as one part of the interest in dealing with children's issues with special needs; those who are more committed to having as many schools as possible in the past, to have less integration and to have a less individual approach. This is what makes me think that the record in this article has been corrected without any need or that it is written as it is. At the same time, look, I understand that when a teacher or teacher can be involved in the work of such a commission, that it is true that it is "may", I do not have to explain it specifically to anyone who can read in the Slovenian language, but everyone also knows that if the word "may" is withdrawn, this standard will require that in some point within the process at least once we ask the teacher or teacher what this decision should be, because I simply assume that teachers know in their light what to say to this commission. I agree, however, that the less rich committee should be more responsible, etc., here you are taking a step in a meaningful direction, but it is precisely for this word "may" at this point. However, the same is true of the other proposal. We both know how the commission works. The Commission does not have one or two cases and does not always think about this case. This commission will have to deal with a nice number of cases. Back there will be the services that will make sure that this is reconsidered. And the norm that says that at least every five years this "file" has to be taken back, it is necessary to look at it and decide whether what has been adopted or not is more directed, is the commitment to the services to do so, and to the commission to review it again. It's not about moral values, it's not about trust, it's not about trust, it's not about trust. It's just that we're aware that procedures are running in some way. And the most moral people unwittingly overlook the matter if they are not obliged to look at it again. But the deadline is not unreasonablely short. I even agree that the deadlines in the existing law were shorter than necessary, so I agree for a longer period of time. However, it seems to me that the commitment in this case does not harm, so I would only ask you to consider, together with the coalition, what your position on these matters has been, and in particular, to amend Article 4 when you are still coming to Parliament with this law; it does not report what needs to be reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I find that I can conclude the debate. As usual, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda 34. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 29. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS OF THE TRADE LEGISL (EPA 1011-IV), CLOSED PROCEDURE. We have two hours and 55 minutes to discuss. Between you and me, I welcome the Minister of Mags. And at the same time, I say good-bye to Dr. Beast's minister with his associates and also from our visitors and visitors to the tribunal. I give the floor to the representative of the government, Minister Visiak, for further explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I am pleased to say that the amendment to the Trade Act, which is currently under consideration in the National Assembly, has saved a long-standing calvary of various attempts by previous governments to regulate working time, and it has been every attempt to regulate the operating time of trade by those who are not actually social partners and do not agree on this, an attempt that has only worsened the situation in this area. Therefore, at the Ministry of the Economy, we were aware that no regulation of the trade law relating to operating time was in line with all participants and that the best solution was an agreement between the social partners or an agreement between traders and employees in trade. Therefore, the Ministry of Economy has also taken on the role of co-ordinator in negotiating both parties that have finally reached an agreement in the form of a signed protocol, which is also an integral part of the collective agreement. The agreement regulates working time, breaks, rest and allowances, which are less favourable for workers and are part of the collective agreement on trade in Slovenia. In this way, we do not regulate, no longer determine the operating time of trade, but we determine, or employers and employees decide and determine the protection of the working time of the trader, a specific worker in trade, and thus indirectly this touches on working time. We believe that with this agreement this story, operating time, will be over and that it will no longer cause tension between the social partners. In our view, the agreement on employee working time, which we have also always advocated, is the appropriate and best basis for regulating this operating time in commercial activities. The Ministry of the Economy has also provided social partners with this moderation to respect their agreement and to translate the agreement between the social partners into a new trade law. And here today is the text of the amendment to the Trade Act, which fully supports the agreed agreement between workers in trade and between employers, which is why we do not agree with any corrections to the text, which is in line with the social partners and which we have agreed together to propose to the State Assembly for admission. The proposed regulation of operating time will ensure effective protection of the public benefit while at the same time at least interfering with the constitutional rights of a free economic initiative. Traders are given a market opportunity to carry out their activities, consumers are provided with adequate and quality supplies and trade workers with an adequate remuneration for work in less favourable times and, of course, other rights. From the latter, the agreement reflects the expectations of all the three categories that are here, on the one hand the economy - employers, on the other hand employees, employees and on the third side of all of us - consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u117	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was examined by the Committee on the Economy. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr. Ferri Horvat, for a report from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u118	Thank you for your words, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues and the other present. There are probably few laws, if any, that have dealt with such an economy committee so many times, in several mandates, as well as a national assembly in different compositions. The Committee has considered the draft law that we have before us, which has just been presented by Mr Minister, at the 22nd meeting of 10.10.2006, as the working body of the mother. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and, on the basis of the opinion, also adopted the amendment to Article 1. It is important to deal with this law and to adopt it in writing that the representatives of employers are thus in writing, the right trade associations at the Chamber of Commerce, and the representatives of trade unions in the Committee and one and the other have in fact agreed with what they have also signed. The Committee considered this to be sufficiently convincing and sufficiently sound arguments in view of the previous experience that the Committee had adopted and proposed to the assembly that it should also adopt it. We believe that this passage of law ensures some kind of cutting of the Gordy knot of opening times of trade. The Committee on the Economy, by a majority, approved the draft law with the exception of the representatives of one parliamentary group and expressed its satisfaction with the agreement between employers and employees. The fact that there was no agreement between employers and employees in the past was, as you know and know, the main reason for the call and implementation of the referendum. The law, which was then adopted in the National Assembly after the referendum, was in fact not liked by anyone or disputed for everyone, both for traders and for trade unions and for consumers. The proposed solution is in line with the interests of businesses, the free economic initiative, in the interest of employees, I am thinking mainly of the appropriate payment, which has been one of the contentious issues since the beginning, and protection based on labour law and finally in the interests of consumers. We hope that the adoption of the law will put an end to the game without borders in relation to the opening time of trade.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you very much for the committee report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I invite Mr Mikolić first to present the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, well-respected minister, respectable colleague and colleague! This one parliamentary group, which did not support the law on the committee, was New Slovenia and we will not support the law today. In the New Slovenia Group, we know Article 74 of the Constitution, which speaks of a free enterprise initiative and that is why we have also tabled an amendment, because it seems unnecessary for us to teach traders now when to set opening time for them to have the best profits or profits. We believe that the State or legislator must ensure the conditions for this free enterprise initiative to develop and implement as best as possible, while also respecting Article 53 of the Constitution. This third paragraph states that the State protects the family, motherhood, fatherhood, childhood and youth and that it must also create the necessary conditions for the creation of protection; and that is what this is about. It is the work of parents, especially the mother on Sundays, which families are supposed to need to strengthen family ties, that is, time that is not available during normal working days. If we are to create a family-friendly situation, Sunday work must be limited to urgent matters such as health care. That's why he's a magician. Janez Drobnič has tabled a bill to eliminate the Sunday work of trade with certain exceptions, of course the whole fate, the whole scenario we all know. We also know what was the will expressed at the referendum, and it is in the New Slovenia Group that we want to listen to this will. More important than whether the sellers are willing to work for better pay on Sundays, the question is whether it is necessary for mothers who are sellers on Sundays to work. In Germany, you must have read it, a few days ago in Finance, it was published, they banned automatic video and DVD rentals on Sundays and holidays, because it was supposed to disturb Sunday peace and violate the law banning work on Sundays. The article was published in Finance. Well, respectable colleagues, this is an automatic rental! In recent days, news outlets have been re-emerging on headlines so that after 12 November on Sundays we can shop again in large shopping centres. November brings weeks, and immediately after this article, the workers do not smell the Sunday work. Journalists note that employees, especially mothers, do not know their rights at all. That's what this article says. All they know is they'll be working on Sundays from now on. The union explains, however, that their rights will be protected by carrying out an education that will allow for a uniform interpretation of all the provisions of collective agreements, i.e. education for employees. And if that would really help, another question is asked, which union represents the rights of employed parents, mother? Trade unions represent employees, not parents at the same time. And again it is up to us consumers, citizens, to decide how we will survive the weeks. We can choose the most popular attraction Sunday trip, modern romance to the nearest shopping center or we are something special and choose a different way of spending our free time - one that will bring our children back to their parents. We won't support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Janc has the following word on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! This subject has a very long beard, as the Minister himself said. There have been many debates at various levels in between, and in the end, we estimate that there has been some Solomonic solution since that referendum. It deals with the novelty of the Trade Act in the work relating to the operating time of these shops. This is an article that was drafted on the basis of a referendum or adopted in the National Assembly at the beginning of 2004 and then again a few months ago, as the Constitutional Court annulled this article. The reason for the annulment was at that time that the area was sold for emergency life items which could be opened without restriction on Sundays and with the law of certain holidays established arbitrarily. Since we adopted the last amendment of the law or the current text of Article 17, we have stressed in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that we are in a situation of ignorance. We have set ourselves a very clear goal in Slovenia to want rapid economic development, in line with government reforms, to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and that one of the key objectives in Slovenia is the intensive development of tourism. Members of the Slovenian People's Party then supported the proposed text of Article 18, taking into account all limited circumstances. The proposed solution was still acceptable through referendum decisions and other circumstances. Of course, this raises a whole range of questions, particularly with regard to the so-called specific locations where exceptions are made. In some cases, these exceptions leave a relatively wide framework for mentioning only closed gas service areas or old urban or cod cores. We have already explicitly stressed in the adoption of the last novel that we do not rule out the possibility that in a year it may be necessary to amend the law again if, for example, it turns out that the solutions we have adopted are not appropriate. And today, ladies and gentlemen, we are considering a proposal for a new text of Article 17 of the Trade Act. Let me point out immediately that the Slovenian People's Party's Group will respect the agreement between employers and representatives of workers, with whom everyone is satisfied with our information. As long as this was not satisfied, the interests of the workers have, in our view, been protected by the referendum will of the electorate. Of course, the proposed novels can be seen as moving away from the referendum will, but all circumstances that have changed significantly from the referendum need to be taken into account. In doing so, we are referring to the signing of the collective agreement on trade in Slovenia, which was adopted on 9 June this year. They are regulated by working time, rest, rest, allowances resulting from the allocation of working time, which is less favourable for the worker. It would be difficult to oppose the proposal of an article supported by both employers and representatives of employees. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that this proposed novel has also received wider support between citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Given that the law follows an agreement between employers and employees, it also follows the principle of equality and respects the principle of free economic initiative, we will also support the proposed law of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Zagorac has the following word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honors are here! The part of the collective agreement on trade activities relating to the section on working time, breaks, rest and allowances resulting from less favourable hours for workers has entered into force. Store employees will receive a 100% bonus on Sundays and holidays for work on certain holidays, and I will not list them because I believe you know them and 200%. Interesting! It is certainly interesting that this government comes with such a law. But before we get to the point of interest, it must be said that this is the first law in this mandate, but really the first, which is actually consistent with the social partners or with those representing workers in this country. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we wanted to point out first of all the duality of the current government, but once again, we stress that the debate in the amendment of the Act is a fear, as it will allow for more violations of labour law when it is not properly controlled. The main problem in this area is the lack of control over the operation of commercial enterprises, which are directed solely to the pursuit of an increase in individual company capital. Once again, I would like to put forward that position of the Slovenian National Party, which we have already made public. The proposed amendment, which gives exclusive competence to determine working hours for traders or shopkeepers, is in clear contrast to the former aspirations of government representatives today, who have even demanded the end of Sunday's work through a referendum. You will recall that the referendum was small at the time, but the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia stipulates that whatever this referendum participation is, the referendum is binding, and that is when people in this country, the country of the Republic of Slovenia, represented by all of us here, all 90 Members, decided that Sunday's work will not be. Today, this government, the government that has demanded a referendum whose result has been quite clear, offers a compromise. It offers a compromise for both workers and employers. It offers a compromise in the form of an increase in compensation. If we were to turn it into a local language somehow, we'd say we're buying workers to do it. "Sparmo" somewhere else. I believe most of you were present at the meeting last week, when we were "scraping" somewhere, "scraping" to give today. However, we have been "sparing" in a way that we are taking from someone, and today we are giving in order to win the votes of those who have decided otherwise in the referendum two years after the election of the State. It is necessary to decide, honourable representatives of the government, whether we will respect people's referendum will, regardless of whether we participate, or whether we will be populists, that we will take some place and put our votes where they are simply bought. The referendum simply said "no" to Sunday's work. And today's government, made up of four parties, is offering a "I" Sunday's work in a way that these people can be bought to work. Anyone who talks about this booth or the bench will say that they care for their mothers, that they care about attending Masses on Sundays, will lie. This government is offering Sunday work. It is true, Mr Minister, and I must admit that this is the first law in this mandate, which has been purchased and coordinated with the social partners with the help of money. And if it doesn't go well, it goes with the money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Rezman to present the position of DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Unlike some of the already heard, overly critical thoughts, I will express satisfaction in the introduction. First of all, the satisfaction that the government or the ministry has taken over this role as some kind of mediator among those who should agree, and that this mediation has also given birth to success. Otherwise, I am sure that when the government formally proposed another law, it was embarrassing or at least the ministry with the minister in charge, because I had the feeling all the time, and I was convinced that the law would come to the table sooner or later, similar to what we have now, because in our judgment, it is only rational, at least if we are looking at the economy and other general, non-ideological interests. We are pleased in the DeSUS Group of Members, and we will therefore support this law, also because there was no need to change the positions, not those that the previous Members of this Group supported or expressed, not those that we supported or expressed months ago, when we adopted the law that is now in force, and when we tried to amend and thus soften the firm attitude of those who wanted to prevent trade from being open. And we are also pleased now that we are expressing our support for the proposed, because we are assessing that it is, however, that economic and non-ideological political interests have come to the fore. Because it is some way of getting rid of political pressure from the economy and because it is also what has already been said that social dialogue takes precedence over debates that are more or less party-coloured in Parliament. And for such a way of social communication, we should probably all find as much obedience as possible. When it comes to harmonising economic, social and some other interests, then, at the end of the day, we will also find that political interests have also been harmonised, if we hold that we are all in favour of an autonomous economy, to have as successful economic growth as possible, to have as many open jobs as possible, and if, after all, we are in the process of doing everything for a better life. In doing so, we do not mean every individual, but we mean what is most important and what is possible through social communication. In fact, the essence of this law, according to our judgment, is set out in the two, three words of Article 1 - where it states that a trader, taking into account the interests and protection of employees, determines working time, so that the working time in the economy will no longer be determined by a political majority, i.e. a party majority in Parliament, and that this path was the one that was more successful than other political disputes in Parliament, a dialogue between the social partners. That is why we will also support this law unanimously.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs Pozsonec will speak on behalf of the national community. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u128	Nice greetings to all present! The Trade Act has been amended several times in the opening hours of the last period. 9.6.2006 agreement was reached between employers and employees, signatories to the collective contract of trade in Slovenia concerning working time arrangements, breaks, rests and allowances resulting from the allocation of working time, which is less favourable for the worker. The proposed law thus summarizes the content of the agreement and transposes it into the proposed amendment to Article 17 of the Trade Act. The regulation of business time thus follows an agreement between the social partners, which allows opening time to be determined according to the needs of consumers and the business decision of traders. At the same time, it ensures the protection of the rights of employees in trade, as it is ensured that workers are paid for work in a less favourable time. I agree that the best, in fact the only solution, is to take into account the agreement between the social partners, but the question remains for me until the end of the century: Why was a referendum needed, why was the party thrown away more than half a billion if the proposed law destroys the will of the people expressed in the referendum? And the question remains: How many doctors, nurses, policemen, tourists, journalists work on Sundays? The taste of this referendum is certainly bitter, both in society and from now on in legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u129	Thank you, too. Mr Pike has the following word on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u130	Dear President! Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! Many words were uttered about this marriage in this house and also outside this house. Let's take a look at the facts. This issue has been exacerbated in the previous mandate because the social partners have not agreed on working time, breaks and allowances in a less favourable time. A referendum was held on the opening time of trade. The wishes of this referendum were respected by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group and we tried to bring the will, as confirmed in the referendum, into law. Once this has been done, the Constitutional Court has suspended the implementation of this law in articles limiting the free economic initiative. A completely different situation has now arisen since on 9.6.2006 employers and employees, i.e. social partners, signed an agreement concerning working time arrangements, breaks, rest periods and allowances resulting from the allocation of working time, which is less favourable for the worker. The proposed law summarises the content of the agreement and transposes it into the proposed amendment to Article 17 of the Trade Act. The proposed regulation of operating time will ensure effective protection of the public benefit and at least interfere with the constitutional right to a free economic initiative. Traders shall be given a fair and marketable opportunity to carry out their activities, to consumers adequate and quality supplies and to employees adequate remuneration for work in a less favourable time. The reasons for the reduced procedure are based on the fact that the current legislation is the subject of a constitutional assessment procedure, which is subject to a temporary stay to a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are pleased and pleased that an agreement has been reached between the social partners. That is why we support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Next, I invite Dr. Lahovnik to present the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will of course support the proposed law. Our position is the same all the time, and there is no reason to change it just because we are now in opposition, so we support substantive solutions. Sunday’s work, in general working time, is a matter of free economic initiative on the one hand and agreement between employers and workers on the other. This is not an area that should be regulated by the referendum. If there is anything, then I hope that all those who advocated the referendum, when they were still in the opposition and now have a completely different position when they were in the coalition, what they learned from it. After unnecessary spending on a referendum of 600 million tolars, even today proves that this issue can be resolved differently, and you know, consumers are voting each day with their purchases on whether or not trades should be open and there is no reason to sign referendums on this. Of course, trade workers should be properly paid, but these are issues that are a matter of agreement between employers and employees. The fact that some in the opposition have advocated one, now that they have overlooked in the coalition, all taxpayers have cost 600 million dollars in the form of the costs of an unnecessary referendum. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have always advocated the fact that Sunday's work and working time is a matter of agreement between the social partners, so we also support these proposed solutions, but we are surprised at some of the views of certain groups, parliamentary groups, political groups that spoke one way when they were in opposition, and now suddenly quite differently when they were in coalition. Obviously, the perspective from the government palace is quite different, as it was from the opposition benches before, but this is another thing, so we leave this to the final stage to be judged by voters and voters, just as Sunday work, as I said, is a matter of consumers and employers and employees; as voters and voters vote every time in the elections, so consumers vote with their purchases.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u133	Thank you very much. And the last one has the word, Mr Kumer, on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have always supported the negotiations between workers and employers on the opening times of trade. We have been expecting and waiting today, even though it has had to take some more than three years to reach an agreement that is expected to meet expectations both on the one hand of employees and on the other hand of traders, and on the other hand of consumers, so that today we have a solution that, according to the Socialist Group of Members, we can accept without a bad conscience. In recent years, this issue has had a lot of publicity, it has been filled with emotions, intertwined with political appetites after obtaining political points on this issue and what else could be found. It is therefore necessary to supplement the preamble or introduction to this proposal because of the historical memory that so quickly dries in this National Assembly, namely that the subject of the dispute between traders and employees in trade was not only the regulation of the working time of employees and the payment for work mainly on Sundays and holidays, but also the extreme involvement of the then opposition, today's ruling desire that no solution be reached. Of course, today this elite is in a different role. He runs the country and is also responsible for the economic effects and social sustainability of certain laws. It is logical, therefore, that the views of some former members of the opposition sitting in the government today have changed considerably this past year. In terms of the former, ex-Minister, Dr Damian, who said about this issue, quote: "The Sunday Work Act in Trade has caused or will cause much damage, unnecessary damage, but as far as I am informed, the situation is such that it will have to be settled, because now many countries are talking about our opening time. Countries that are more flexible in this area also have more employment in trade activities. That's why it's not always negative." End of quote. Therefore, in the parliamentary group of Social Democrats, as at the time before and after the referendum, we believe that it is particularly important that we build a state of socially responsible capital. Capital, which will be able to assess what is also acceptable from the point of view of social cohesion and the sensitivity of society. Now that we are members of 25, we must face the fact that we, too, have a free economic initiative and, on the other hand, a public benefit that extends this platform into a market-based social economic initiative or economy. And regulating working time in trade activities is one of the areas that need to be regulated by legislation on the basis of this broader platform, not only profit, but also employee rights. In short, it is a question of rights that the market social economy of Europe has been building for some time and that is why they have also been able to build acceptable standards of social life into legal standards. And this is what we have before us today: an agreement and a binding responsibility for all involved, so we will also support this bill in the Social Democrats' Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to the debate on one single article and on the amendment tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review, if we can call it so, of this amendment, of 27.10. I ask, besides a minister who has already expressed an interest, does anyone else want to apply to the debate? So I'm opening an electronic application. And the minister has already called. Thank you very much, but the first word is Mr. Minister, mag. A visor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would only like to avoid some continuation of such discredits and the Group of Members and even the governments we have now received, in particular the Slovenian National Party Group, but only one explanation is due. It was here by Dr. Lakhovnik, and not only by his, including by others, to feel some duality of some of the groups of Members, or some of the Members, in dealing with this issue. I just want to point out that the referendum took place at a time when the previous government took the right to regulate the subject, which is part of social bargaining. That's when the law came in, and then there were sub-laws that regulated the matter, which is actually in the domain of social dialogue. The then government failed and failed and did not try at all to bring the social partners closer together, to moderate, to intervene in any way, in order to reach an agreement. No! No! She took her stick and said, "That's what we're gonna say." And the result was a referendum where people told their story. It is now evident that the duality, due mainly to the merit of seeking solutions between the social partners, alone and in some ways our small part in encouraging him to negotiate, has come to an agreement. Of course, this is a completely new situation. A completely different circumstance from that of the past. And now to make it clear to someone that there was a duality when an agreement was reached on the basis of social dialogue, and that this agreement is now being respected, a vision of the situation when there was no social agreement when someone was authoritarianly regulating the matter and a referendum took place. These are two very different situations that suggest a different approach, and this approach has also taken place. So once again, honourable Members, it is not a matter of duplicity; it is a matter of finding the best possible solution in a given situation. Last but not least, this government has adopted a bill that fully applied the referendum will, which was followed by amendments to this Parliament, well-intentioned amendments, how to improve the referendum decision, then complemented by a re-constitutional review. This thing is stuck again. Dear Zagorac! It's about shopping. This is where I heard the word the government bought this marriage. I don't know who, how, what? I think that with such an insult and an insult to the government you should not overlook the fact that you probably had in mind that someone was bribed here too. Obviously. Were they employers, the real Slovenian economy, or were they Slovenian workers, trade unions? Who? You've actually used very hard words. Please explain to them who and with what? I'm stressing again. In this case, the government has done nothing more than to seek agreement between the two social partners, to reach the social agreement that has been reached. All thanks for this to all the trade union organisations involved, as well as to the representatives of employers organised in the framework of the Economic Chamber of the Association for Trade. By actually deciding how much someone would contribute to this agreement, the two of them decided that the agreement had also been reached. And, of course, the government, because it has been working or our ministry, has committed itself to strictly respecting this agreement and to mediating it to this Parliament through the marriage text. Here's the whole role of government. I think it is most important to say here today that there has obviously been a higher degree of maturity in the area of both social partners, that they have agreed on something that was obviously impossible at first and that this solution is before us. It is a pity that this solution was not before us four, five, six years ago, when this story began to wrap itself up and which actually led to the current situation. So, Your Honor, don't operate here with terms like bribery, like duplicity, etc. The situation was very different whether it was a social agreement or not. And all those who today oppose this law must know that in some way you are also opposed to the agreement between the social partners.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I exceptionally allowed the Minister to have a broader debate, because even if the views of some Members were or were referring to him. Otherwise, I would like to point out that we are discussing Article 1 and the amendment of New Slovenia in such a way as to ask, Mr Anderlič, please, if I may. However, I must point out that we are discussing Article 1 of the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. But the question is, of course, to what extent will you take this direction into account? I give my word to Mr. Juban. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greeting, Minister, well-respected choir. I would have no great difficulty in supporting this amendment that is before us, even though the whole logic of the proposed law on this text of this amendment is an elephant. If consumers do not feel the need to make consumers, customers, etc. visiting trade, it is likely, as a consequence, logical that traders will not be on duty without the need for trade and trade will not be open. But from the proposed text of the law itself, it's probably logical, and I don't think this amendment is necessary. What should be added to this? What the Minister said, of course, is little of that. The whole story took place years ago on the Committee on the Economy. At the time, the unions had far enough arrangements. However, I hope to admit that they have endured more today than was already scheduled. And that these additional conditions, the ratings obtained by workers working on Sundays and holidays in stores, are better than they were back then. But when it seemed that we could agree, the opposition, especially the two parties, intervened. Maybe one of them was also coalition, and she figured out or saw the possibility of going to a referendum with the solution of closing down on Sundays. This was also the whole time during the threat negotiations, if you do not agree to these supplements and we will close the trade. And we had a referendum. Today we're telling ourselves what kind of role someone's been playing. There's a lot about this painting, written down. Let's remember. One of us remembers well, especially those who were on the Committee on the Economy, what was going on. I am also among those who claim that this referendum was unnecessary and that the solution to the marriage is not the same as it was in the referendum question. That question, however, I think you created two current ministers. Today, talking about not knowing how everything was good and how it was handled was not good. 600 million were thrown aside needlessly and could be agreed on another way. Today is a good solution, as I say. It will now be primarily the task of governments and relevant services to monitor how this law will be implemented. Since, above all, there was a problem here that perhaps the solutions to the law were already quite good in the law at the time. The problem was that trade work was not controlled and the offenders were not sanctioned. And today is the same story. If this is not monitored and sanctioned, then we have not come far enough with this law, because the story is in the part where it is necessary to implement it. In short, when we vote on the law, I will support it. This amendment, I think, is that once again I say that it is not necessary, and even if it is adopted it will not contribute to the law anything new, nothing special. The basic text of the proposal for amendments to the law is important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I agree with my predecessor. This amendment does not substantially correct or worsen the law. However, I am pleased that the ministry has taken a step forward to cut this yoke of trade story short and to finally begin to realize that the buyer is the king. As with the officials, the client who comes, the king and not the official, is also in the store. All these procedures need to be guided in this direction. As long as our people are willing to buy and supply on Sundays, it is only right that we allow them to do so. And that's why this marriage, which is not ideal for me, is the end of a story and yet it means progress, worth supporting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolić has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Once again, I will point out that we have tabled the amendment in the New Slovenia Group not because we will now discuss the law for a while, but because it seems inappropriate for us to write down in this first article that the trader will set open time according to the needs of consumers. I don't think we should mix opening hours with official hours of officials or bureaucrats. This looks something like this, it says, and I am also sure that if some consumers or buyers want to have an open shop on Sunday or feel the need to go to the store if the trader finds that it is not worth it, then trade will certainly not be open on Sunday. But I have to say, I'm really disappointed with the term "appropriate payment." I firmly believe that no payment on Sundays and holidays can be appropriate if we are talking about trades, if we evaluate their values or what employees want, what employees want to respect, or if they can decide for themselves a day called a Sunday or a holiday. A lot of things have been written down in the last period. This case, too, about the award on Sundays or the appropriate payment, as well as a number of mothers, says they would not go to work for a three-time payment on Sunday. But according to the law, she'll have to go to work. I would also ask myself, ‘ What about the students who work on Sundays? Is that what this law solves? It is said, as I know, that this is not recorded anywhere or even among the social partners. This means that the student will probably work one for one, or as much as his student class. This is where I'm afraid there's going to be abuse or something. As I mentioned in the introduction, I will support the proposed amendment or, in fact, we will not support the law in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Koren also joined the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greeting to the Minister, to the Ambassador, to the Member of Parliament! It's a sad day for me personally today, because we're obviously totally destroying some of the decisions that voters and voters have made at the opening-time referendum. And I regret to say today to the debaters of the Liberal Democracy that the referendum was unnecessary to spend money, with such an outcome as we have before us today, by adopting this law, this is actually happening. I am also sad because there is only New Slovenia and, if I understand correctly, the representatives of the Slovenian National Party who want the will voted in the referendum to be legalised. I'm happy to have an agreement between employers and shopkeepers. I have to say, I welcome him for making a deal. This agreement can normally be applied to those trades that will be open even with respect to the referendum will. Talking about a free economic initiative, the initiative in general on Saturday and Sunday, night and day is necessary or not necessary, but I think it is a little inappropriate. Before it was said, the buyer is the king. I will say: The party is king and then we can only expect Minister Virant to agree with the chiefs of the administrative units, that the parties, the kings want to regulate their affairs on Saturdays and Sundays on the administrative bodies and if the employees or the union deal well. Otherwise, I don't know which union is going to represent these officials in the administrative department for 200% of the pay, and we're going to handle it. I say, every economic initiative also has one of its limits. Unfortunately, I won't be able to uphold the law. I'll also say whether our amendment is accepted or not. I just can't support him, because I told him at the beginning because he doesn't reflect the will that was voted in the referendum. The very agreement between the social partners is commendable and could apply, it is said, to those shops that would be open on Saturdays and Sundays. One wonders: Does it really make sense to keep the referendum? I will say: It still makes sense, although such an experience as it is in this law, I must say that for me one is a very bitter experience. I just can't support a marriage like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I'm opening a second round of application. Please sign up. He's already a minister. Thank you very much. Yes, Minister, at the beginning? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Just a little bit about this amendment. The amendment does not essentially represent any added value to these solutions, nor does it take it away from one important fact, for which we have a negative view of this amendment. This is what we have said to the social partners, as I said in the beginning, that we will also translate their agreement into a marriage text. That's what we did. This was a legal text that was consistent with the social partners. For this reason we also insist on such a text in the future. The adoption of the amendment and the deletion, that is, a simple relationship would bring nothing to the content itself, and on the other hand would move away what we have said is that we will respect the agreed. It was agreed with a text such as that adopted by the Government and sent to Parliament. That is why we do not support this amendment. And there's something else I'd like to say about the elimination of the referendum will. In this House, in my memory, an amendment was passed to the previous amendment to the trade law, which extended the cycle of exceptions and which meant a derogation from the referendum will. I do not remember that one member group would oppose this. And it was also the motivation of the referendum will, if you called it that, to a greater extent. Why? Because a social agreement had not yet been drawn up. Today's the day. So the attempt to expand the exceptions in 2005 was, as far as principle and referendum are concerned. I remember we put the religious centers in there, like, and so on. It was a bigger manoeuvre against the referendum or against, I would say some content followed by a referendum decision than when a new moment was, namely, a social agreement, a social agreement on this subject and, of course, it is also the basic basis for such a legal text.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Pike has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. I also think that the proposed amendment is unnecessary because this free market initiative is already incorporated into the law. Because the dealer, if he has an increased cost on Sunday, he won't have it open. On Sunday, however, I would have increased costs as regards payment, since Sunday’s work is worth more than week’s work. But it's a merchant thing that he can figure out for himself whether or not he'll come through, as they say he won't. As for the referendum will of the electorate, I have always supported it. But when that will came to pass, it was a completely different situation. At the time, the social partners could not agree. They didn't know how to make a deal. Now there's another situation. The social partners have agreed. That's the essential thing they agreed on. Of course, as a Democrat, I respect every agreement if it is within the legal framework. That's why I'm going to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u149	Thank you very much. May I have Mr. Anderlich's word, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u150	Indeed, it seemed that this law and this amendment would not require discussion. But everything that has already been said at this point, and what this amendment really means, must be spoken of and said, this amendment is harmful to the law itself. This is because it has nothing to do with the social agreement. There is no link with the social partners because consumers are not social partners in agreement, but are trade unions, trade unions. Unionists who are not the only consumers. So am I and everyone else who goes shopping. You're talking, Minister, about a social arrangement. But this part that they want to delete in New Slovenia and I understand what they wanted to say with this, what I have already heard in countless summary records of various celebrations, novels and so on, that the greatest evil is both Slovenian and for all other societies too much consumerism. Therefore, the need to take account of the needs of consumers. It doesn't matter to me. This is a deal between consumers and traders, not trade unions and traders. And trade unions will already agree on an appropriate payment, etc., as they are now. I welcome that. But the intention of this is to delete it, it is completely different and must be rejected with all the volume and clarity with the justification that I am now talking about. It's about someone wanting to work out what's good for people and what's not good for people and whether they should buy or not. People have to decide freely whether to buy if they have the option and if traders on the other hand have the free initiative to do so. That's what this marriage is about. Although I'm afraid that it is - I can't really imagine what that part means when you say that you're canceling the rulebook. Because that's the problem. Someone is joking about those who are watching, but they're among the MPs or the employees. But since I know who he is, I'll be able to talk to him. In Article 2, you delete the definition of vital cost of living. This was one of the things that was questionable even when the Constitutional Court ruled on how to determine the vital needs of life, because many are very different. One needs only bread, milk, etc., and the other may need more that Sunday or the day that the store is closed and there is no way to buy. This will also be evident by the definition of this Article 2 or Article 1 of the Law, whether it is so. And that is what I would like to learn from the Minister what they meant by that, so that it will not be at all, and that everything can be, that we no longer talk about it, and then it is even more strange to delete this part of the first paragraph, which talks about the agreement or the assessment of what consumers want to buy when they decide to go to trade. We would talk a lot about the interpretation of what happened at the time of the referendum at the time of the referendum. The Minister said today that something small had been encouraged by those who had created the issue and who had also submitted a request for a referendum. Today, however, to speak independently of what was happening from that initiative from the referendum forward, here in this Chamber today, how everything was actually wrong with the negotiation at that time. Even then, the unions were very close to employers to get the right remuneration, and those who helped them and those who helped them a little did not allow it. But when all of this went away, there was an attempt in this Chamber by one of the former opposition Members, the current minister. Not the one sitting here. This helped him a little, as he himself said, as he said he had encouraged him to do. But what happened? At that time, those who today suggest that this part of paragraph 1 should be deleted, but it would be useful not to have those 90 square metres in the law determined later as a real opening or a possible opening area on Sunday. But if we were to increase it, I think it's 200 or I don't know how many meters. This was happening in this hall. This gentleman negotiated with traders and measured how many percent of the trades would be open. There was also talk about companies. Go take a look at the magnetograms. Everything was told. Some who sat here remember that well. But I do not want to renew this, because I am satisfied, despite everything, that to some extent this error that has been done and the seduction of people, if only that is the right thing to decide at the referendum, and then it was found that this cannot be written in the law so that it would also be optimal and feasible and useful for all, both employers, workers and consumers, then it was desirable to change the squares with some sublime trade. And, of course, with those famous areas where stores are supposed to be open. Even so far as it was going, let's say, at Brez, and at Lourdes there at St. Peter's, probably somewhere else, merchants had to build mega-markets so that at every novel and every mass that's there, people could go to the store. This was happening in this hall. Just for an explanation. But once again, I will not support the amendment. Because in this part, as it is written down and proposed for the article to be corrected, it would mean that someone else, on behalf of consumers, still regulates their will and what their needs are.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u151	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Kumer's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. I don't support this amendment either. Because, as the Minister has said, an agreement has been reached between the social partners. It is high time we now poured into this matrimony. However, each thing and also this story has some science or added value, as the Minister has said, for all governments, the past, the present and the future obviously apply. And here I would also give a sort of parable with last week. Let it be said that social dialogue is very high on the social regulation scale, if not the highest. Last week, when we discussed some things, it wasn't. Today, when we all discuss this together, we note that it is social dialogue that must really be at the highest level of this regulation of social affairs. And once again, there was no alternative to regulating this matter. The alternative was only social dialogue and agreement between the social partners. There was no other alternative. We've spent over three and a half years on this. But in my opinion, the lesson from this is that we, as a legislative body, only have to accept it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u153	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment of New Slovenia, which we have tabled today, will not be accepted, because obviously we are only in New Slovenia for it. And even if it had been adopted, the essence of this new law would not have changed. But it changes significantly with the amendment of the law. This is to evaluate the will of the people at the referendum, which was expressed at the referendum three years ago. And it also evaluates the institute of the referendum. That makes us sad. In Novi Slovenija, we are not so sure of the words of the Minister, who says that the story of trade is over and that everyone is satisfied: merchants, consumers and employees. Traders are satisfied, including consumers mostly. However, I do not know if all the employees or workers who then voted the referendum or the proposed referendum are satisfied. They're not happy. And it is sad that they will have to work on Sundays to make more money, rather than earn more in the framework of a legitimate worker, that is 40 hours a week. So they can work on Sundays and make more money and make us sad. Clearly, however, the climate for the social partners is more favourable under this government. Just as we heard days ago that this government does not listen to the social partners. He seems to be a good listener. All the good they've done is be thanked. At the same time, I think they did not negotiate best for traders or for employees in trade. That is why in New Slovenia we will not support this law or this novel trade law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The replica goes especially to the last, that the government has also gone through the referendum will here and that there is also a skepticism that this is the end of the story. Firstly, I am convinced that the story is concluded because I very much doubt that anyone in this country will be found who would initiate any procedure to repeal this text against the will of the social partners. These are the ones whose agreement with this law is also enforced. Another time. I have before me a vote and also amendments that were tabled at the time to the law proposed by this government and fully respected the referendum will. To this law, the three parliamentary groups tabled an amendment, namely the SDS, New Slovenia and SLS, which extended the cycle of exceptions to those that were also voted in the referendum. And these parliamentary groups backed up this amendment. This amendment was legalized. As a result, we have another constitutional judgment. In my opinion, if we are talking about a departure from the referendum will, this is something quite different than these texts, which are based on a social agreement that was not yet adopted at the time of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u158	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Your Honors are here! The amendment before us makes sense. But allow me, like everyone before me, to touch the word "divorce" myself. If you allow me one quote from 7 March 2003, Mr Minister, then you were sitting here just a little bit in front of me, and you probably know what was said at the time, but only to refresh the memory and to clarify that you were reading to me in your statement of duplicity. I read to you the text of your parliamentary group: "We are surprised that such important values as the maintenance of family life, the possibility of a family staying together at least once a week, so that it can be gathered, is not a clear public benefit which can be justified that Slovenia cannot be an island within Europe, which on average determines the opening of trade on Sundays and the exploitation of mothers' workers in this regard. The fact is, workers' rights are in violation of the Trade Act. For the violation of this law, that the stores may be opened on Sunday with the consent of the workers, does not offer any protection to workers or workers, because in relation to the workers the capitals are completely poor." With the legal opinion then negative for your client, it seems that it looks the same as with the law or the original opening time decree, which, in our opinion, we have warned of, wrote the deadline of the capital and the interest of the capital. However, it was not designed by the public interest. In fact, the interest of this grand capital is those who are rich in gallbladders and brutal exploitation of workers. So much for duality. You'll probably know how to answer me. I appreciate, as I have already said in my delegation's position, that this is the first law of this government, where an agreement has been reached. A deal with the social partners. Here in this house, we have no choice but to respect it. I believe you've reached an agreement with everyone, including those who represent I'll tell the workers. What about the referendum? You've talked about him quite a few times. What's more? A deal with social partners or a referendum? Dear Minister, you can answer me very clearly, either one or the other. What's more? What is more, an agreement with the social partners or a referendum will in this case? A simple answer, I believe, according to yours, I will say ability and you will gladly answer. One fact is that when you were in the opposition, of course you could speak one. Today, when you are in power and the fact is that the economy is running power, you can't deny it to me, you have to follow the economy, the interests of that capital that you and your colleagues knew at the time in the opposition very much, and you know how to criticize today. You know how to criticize him today, too. When you spoke about me in my performance, when I spoke about the opinion or position of the Slovenian National Party's Group on Bribery. You know, I didn't say that in a word. I congratulated you on reaching an agreement. It is true that you have achieved it on the principle of money and not will. So you've increased I'll say benefits, wages and more to the workers and workers who will work on Sunday. Which is fine. Here I fully agree with you on this principle, not on the principle of will. In no case have I talked about any bribery. It's the only principle you've agreed to and you've made clear about it, 200% for certain holidays, which is right. If one store is open at the time, 200% of workers and workers should also be paid. It's the right thing to do, and I wasn't talking about bribery. These are your words in the mouth of the Slovenian National Party. It's not a will either, it's money. With money, you bought these workers and workers to work on Sundays. If so, and if they're ready, I'd be happy, as far as I'm concerned, to be happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u159	Thank you very much. It is obvious that we have opened Pandora's box of general debate, but I must point out again that we are discussing Article 1 and the amendment of New Slovenia. Now the minister has a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Of course, here was a quote from my debate based on one assumption that was known at the time and is now sworn and you always forget that. This is the assumption that it was then a unilateral forced decision that we opposed. And when I was talking about public interest. I'm sure it's social. Respect for the social arrangement in the public interest. That's all we're applying here today in this law. So, once again, I'll tell you when you're asking me what is actually the referendum that was, at the time, also with the unfortunate referendum text, which we were also correcting here together and trying to correct several times, which was actually under the vote - under the behaviour of the people who voted that there was no coordination between the social partners. There was no agreement at the time, and when it was and if we represent this decision in a referendum without social dialogue and at the end of the decisions, when the social partners get involved, it is more difficult for me. In particular, should the time pass, after which the referendum is no longer formally binding. That's what happened in this case. That is to say, respect for the agreement between the social partners is more difficult in this case, as far as my perceptions are concerned. Especially because of this, I stress once again that at the time people who went to the polls either from the union or from the other side were lobbied or convinced in some way. Now for Mr Zagorec's remarks. Here I have a copy of the magnetogram, where you speak very clearly about buying workers and the like. Unfortunately, I have received it now at this time, and I will also comment on it further. You used those words for this pay phone. Actually, that's what we're talking about. That's it. But I'd like to save myself a minute, because it's probably going to be necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac, you know there's no replica on the replica. That was a replica. Mr. Secretary had a replica, and now you want to replicate it. But there will be a third application and you will be able to speak, heartily I hope, about Article 1 and the amendment. Now Mrs Shirca finally has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u162	Thank you. Today, it is full of these two moralistic stories, which please man when he remembers what has been said in the past and how attitudes have changed. Mr. Vizjak, one of the Ten Commandments of God speaks of not lying or turning back what you said yesterday, but today you say otherwise. And this double morality is present. Typical, even on other levels in your species. He was until recently, and I'll only take a sentence if you'll let me. Until recently, when he left our society, Mr. Rupar was a winner and a hero. Today, colleagues from the SDS are, of course, absent because they support this hero in the Marketplace at local elections. Today. And that's why they don't get involved in a story about trade that's already ended, because there's been a severe twist and a severe manipulation of what's been thought today and what's been thought yesterday. Mr. Visjak, you were talking today about facing a higher degree of maturity. When the game was stimulated, we know there was no referendum on this maturity. And what is the higher maturity rate? Nothing more than knowing that a higher degree of trust is money than the values of which there was so much talk at the time. What's on fire in the past? It was very interesting, you said at the beginning of your discussions. The fire was hot. This fire used some of the values you put on the highest pedestal, so to speak, poor workers. Children are alone. You don't go to mass, it's capital, it stinks. Today's capital smells, of course, let's see, for Easter Sunday they'll get 200% more work allowances for those who will work on Sunday, on Easter Sunday. It doesn't hurt today, even if it was 0.2% because values change, as has been said recently. The worst thing about this is that you're not dealing with the question of freedom of choice that we were defending today and yesterday before the referendum. Take advantage of the capital that you smell today, while in the past there was a thing of dirty business on behalf of some values that smelled like poor merchants, poor women, only women used in this case who couldn't stay with their children and were forced to work by these dirty capitalists. Today, dirt is purity. This is the perversion of your speech from this hero you have declared in Tržič and now you support him in the streets at this moment and do not sit here. Thank you. By the way, the amendment makes no sense to me because it destroys and makes another perversion, namely, it speaks of the fact that the vitals of life are no longer questionable and no longer need to be laid down in the rules of procedure. So if yesterday's dilemmas were open about whether life's necessities are diapers or washing machines, it's both today.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Before I give a replica to the Minister, however, I am obliged to say, Mrs Shirca, that you have gone a little too far. To discuss a Member who is no longer here and cannot defend himself, but at least it is not right. It is also not right to use succulent terms, even though you are quoting the Bible or any other sources. Please at least take this into account during my presidency. There's no replica. I'm giving the minister a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u164	I'll try to be very brief. The talk was about the depravity of speaking and changing values. Dear Member, we do not change our values here. The government does not propose any new capital weight of the visa from four years ago. The government only prescribes a social agreement in the legal text. This is said to be a perversion or a change in values or a change over time of these meanings, please read out to those who have reached an agreement. We just committed ourselves to transcribing it into a marriage text. This is actually an added value from when you were in power.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Is there any other interest after the debate? So, I'm opening, reopening the application, Minister, if you'd like, so please. Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs. Žgajner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u166	Thank you very much. I am glad to be the first on the list of debaters because I can say it directly or deny the Minister's words, but I had no intention. But, look, Minister, when you talk about different values, let me use the quote again. This time, an MP who is still up to date coming from your party. Then allow me, on January 27, 2004, the words of your client colleague: it was forgotten that the argument was to protect the week, work rest, for some civil value, a value that is as valuable as it is common. Imagine if one of them had a Friday off day, someone else on Sunday, a wife on Mondays, and so on. A total day off is a value, and we must not neglect this value, and let us go so liberally towards the economy. Now tell me if you are not changing the values you had in 2004 when you were still in the opposition. And last but not least today you are talking about respect for the agreement between the social partners, which, according to your assessment, is more valid than the human will expressed in the referendum. May I remind you that the outcome of the referendum is the foundation of democracy, that this is the highest expressed human will that can be respected by a respected minister. That's a double morality, too. When the outcome of the referendum was as it was, you were all glad that people had made the decision because, and I will repeat your words or the words of your party, it was an expression of the highest human will. It's a double morale. In the amendment tabled in Novi Slovenije, you know, it's not that pointless. If you look at him again and try to understand the point of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u167	Thank you. Thank you, too, Vice-President Pavlich, for the afternoon session. Member Cyril Testen has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister and to all present. The position of the New Slovenia Group is more or less well-known. That's why I wouldn't talk about it. But perhaps a few words on the subject of the referendum, and a social partnership, which was also discussed by the minister. Our view is that, in the event of a similar law as it was amended, when we adopted those wonderful amendments, we would have implemented at least 80% of the referendum will. That's how we walked her 100%. 100% despite all those hands being gone. I think we've walked 100% of the referendum will. The union has used this, I think, very effectively in its negotiations. I do not agree with those who find that the referendum has not produced any results. The referendum gave a result. Following a vote in the referendum to open trade on Sundays, the social partners quickly discussed, and agreed to do so for much greater derogations than they had ever been on the agenda. So I think that the outcome of the referendum is, if not the other, the one that forced the social partners into agreement. For me, the role of the union in this regard is questionable. It was said that conditions had changed. In these circumstances, I think the union has changed in the first place. The union no longer advocated what he first advocated. Then, from the Sunday business time theme, we came up with the subject of wages, even though this topic had already been present. But the main point of the referendum was open or closed on Sundays. Maybe two more words. I often think about the effectiveness of this, even though you will say that it is up to employers, employers themselves on the basis of their analysis of the effectiveness of this Sunday's work. I think the costs in terms of the effects are so great. I've never seen any analysis to show it. They are probably also individual traders, although these analyses show that this work is not effective, they will not decide what move they are making. Here, if there is any decision, it will come within the new Chamber of Commerce, which is now being formed. So my position is that Sunday's work is due to pressure. We know that even when we accepted that famous amendment, that there was one part of people, even in the coalition, more on the side that trade was open on Sundays. I think that's why such a solution has come up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u169	Thank you, too. Member Borut Sayovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President. I agree with these solutions, which are not ideal in this marriage. However, I take advantage of the opportunity and ask the Minister present whether, as Minister and the Ministry, these addenda for Sunday work and for work on holidays will be valid in other professions as well? I've worked alone for over 20 years in a profession where there were times, you won't believe it when I was at work for over 360 days a year, 7 days a week, all holidays and all days. I want to know if you're going to make a better payment, including in terms of power supplies, gatekeepers, nurses, doctors, toll collectors and more about these professions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u171	Thank you. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Mr Minister, I am very pleased that the services of the National Assembly are so up-to-date that the magnetograms will bring you very quickly. But you know, the magnetogram that you read or the magnetogram that I quoted and said, maybe that's when I said it, I have to tell you that you didn't tell me. It is true that three years is a very long time for a person to forget some things. But this was said by your then fellow Member, Mr Joseph Jerovšek, and not by you, who quoted him. And once you've had my amendment or my magnetogram, if you can show me the word "underselling," I'll be very grateful and I'll apologize publicly for it. I was talking about "buying" and you, as Minister of Economy, know it or not. I'll teach you, if you don't know, buying is legitimate. Bribery is illegal. If the word "underselling" bothers you so much, you've given me a new point to think about. Maybe it was a bribe. I don't know. That's not what I was talking about. But you've spent ten minutes on this. So, let me tell you, was it "buying" or "buying"? It's a big difference. One's criminal, one's not. When you so stressed the social partnership in this law, I already told you, it is right for the government to consult and reach agreement with the social partners. But if there was such an important social partnership for this government, for the moment, the existing government of the Republic of Slovenia, then believe me that one law in the framework of social reforms would not have been here in the National Assembly. For there was no agreement in one law. This is the first law you've ever reached the law. It is the same that you did, but not to say that social partnership is more important today than human will and the referendum that is the foundation of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u173	Thank you, too. The minister signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u174	Thank you very much. You used the word that the government buys workers. That's what you're saying. That's what you can do legally, or how? From the context of this phrasebook, you can see exactly what you had in mind because it's not legal to buy anyone. Once again, you misunderstand. The government won't give any compensation. The social partners have agreed on such rules of the game. We just passed this agreement on to the law. Let's get this straight. As far as this is concerned, please quote me on the second occasion, not my fellow Members, who are respected, whose position I agree with many times, but not many times and so quote me, not my fellow Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u175	Thank you. We continue the debate. We'll open another round later. Member Geza Juban has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Chairman. I promise to stop by and return to the amendment of New Slovenia, where I want to say the following. I really respect the principle of the New Slovenia Party, which wants to come as close as possible to what they represent in the referendum, but I have something else to add to this. It is not true that negotiations on working time would begin first from the discussion that you have put in place and the position you have represented. First, the negotiations on additives and the threat to the rear were by closing trade on Sundays and then this turned into a referendum. To me today, the minister is little in a nasty situation because he did not jump first or step into the game, he went second in the game and, of course, today he must first defend the law that is before us and is the story that it is. Second. Colleagues who talk about working on Sundays to make more money. A few days ago, or a few days ago, we had a minimum wage bill on the table, and in the meantime a solution was offered to the Minister to ask or take into account the opinion of the social partners when setting a minimum wage. You didn't want to hear about this solution. And then this story is hard to come by. In the end, those who know or remember more or less the exact referendum question were in such a way that it could not be implemented have already been fundamentally misproposed. The amendment was even worse, and it's not true that he graduated, that I know, as you said 80% of the referendum's demands, but maybe 20. It was both bad and it didn't work out, and I would say that, as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to stop and finish thinking about it, a solution as it is on the table is, let's say, acceptable, ideal maybe not, and it's important that we accept it without amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u177	Thank you. Member Anton Anderlich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u178	One of the previous debaters said Sunday's work was due to pressure. If that is the case, then you really need to find out in the government whether it was a violation of social agreements and of the role, if you want, of the marriage that employers or employees or of the government have. Maybe the government was putting pressure on the unions as one of the partners to agree to it. Was that it? I don't know, one of the gentlemen said that I wouldn't call him that he wouldn't have the need for a replica, but he said Sunday's work was due to pressure. Then, as the Minister repeats at least six times today, we are only doing what we do, we are writing, more, he said we are writing down an agreement between the social partners. How am I supposed to understand that because I'm looking at it from afar, or those who are watching it from the outside? You're talking about pressure, the minister says, we're making a deal. You say that only now has there been an agreement on the price for Sunday work, and as a result, the trade will be open. That's not true. The agreement was already so close if not the current Minister for Social Affairs, the current Member, something small, or he added something more behind him, and the current Minister for Economic Affairs added something small that no agreement had been reached. Before the referendum, negotiations and wage negotiations were also one of the first tasks of the trade union in all its activities, even if in this particular case it is only about opening trade and working on Sundays and other parts of the free days, holidays, even Easters, as the colleague here says. And when we talk about it, we need to be consistent. First, they were not allowed to discuss and agree on an appropriate payment, a referendum took place because there was little added, and this was accelerated by a request from one of the social partners, i.e. the unions and then by the referendum, when it was found that it was a horror that such a referendum issue had been written that did not allow this will to be translated into law and that the law would be exact and clear and could in fact be realized. I recall discussions about the destruction of tourism, I remember discussions about all those urgently needed open shops and squares and so on. And if the referendum didn't cheer me up, it didn't cheer me up in the first place, no matter how involved, the participation was very low, which means at least two people think this referendum was unnecessary. Secondly, the issue was unclear and certainly one that could not be passed into law and third, because they made it clear to agree with the social partners and agree in Parliament, do not take responsibility for the law, for the determination of the law to the electorate. And that's all it was. Now to say that, on the one hand, or just writing down the will agreed, in my view, far too much misdirection and deception, because it can be very clearly explained, as well as that there have been any serious pressures on the other hand. If they have been, I would like to say so, because this is a serious problem in this country, if so large groups can forget about it in such a way that they can pass the law. God forbid the government would do that. If the government did it, then you know it. And, even if you don't say so, perhaps another time, when we consider another initiative, Minister Visjak will explain how he feels about that amendment you signed together before the time. And of course, we disagreed, you accepted it, and the law was so changed that it was clearly contrary to your will. But then who pressured you to sign and vote on such an impossible amendment, such an impossible arrangement? And I only believe that the minister, I can even support him out of a joke, because the will that the minister now advocates is absolute. My objection to this amendment does not differ from that which I said at the outset, so that it would be very right to have freedom of choice on the one hand when it comes to consumers, on the other hand, freedom of initiative when it comes to entrepreneurs, traders and so on and, of course, the right to social agreement, which is obviously achieved, and from this point of view, of course, I will support the law and not the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u179	Thank you. There's a minister's word, please. You're giving up. However, since I saw a desire for further discussion earlier, I will reopen the application procedure. Please. Mr. Minister, calm down. We've got you. There's a minister's word. Here you go. Mr. Minister, I'm in charge of this meeting. Will you have a word or not? [[No, no, ……]] You're giving up. Member Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. Dear President, very briefly! Dear Mr. Secretary! It is true that I cited the position of one of your fellow Members at the time, but they represent the position of the party to which you belonged and this position, because I have before me a statement of vote, honourable Mr Minister, you did not at that time object, it is said that you agreed with this position. I don't know where you got this duality today. But once again, it is right that you have reached an agreement with the social partners, but it is true that these social partners, like everywhere else, are sometimes financed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Minister has re-registered the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u182	Of course, once again, when you quote, honourable Member, me, quote me not my fellow Members. Of course, I was at the time opposed to a solution that was not and had no basis in social dialogue. This solution, which is on the table today, has a basis and that is why I support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u183	Thank you. In view of the fact that I no longer see a desire for a debate, in conjunction with Article 1 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Members, I am also concluding the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda 34. And we are moving on to the 34 mentioned above. POINT OF THE DAY - PROPOSAL FOR THE ADOPTION OF THE AUTHENTIC EXPOSURE OF PARAGRAPH 40. It's a member of the Lords Act. I'm informing you that 46 minutes is foreseen for this point. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the proposal submitted to the National Assembly. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u184	Thank you, Mr. President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Government proposed an authentic interpretation of the first paragraph of Article 40 of the Law on Forests for reasons of different interpretation in conjunction with Article 5 of the Law on Forests. However, it is a problem to drive on forest roads, since the first paragraph of Article 40 says that it is only possible to drive on forest roads and not off forest roads, and in the case of various public events or sports events other forest areas, forest trains and other areas in the forest are also useful. This is also often the case with the problems of forest owners with damage to forest growth. It is also necessary to take account of the biotope, the characteristics of the forest biotope, but also of the social and sociological functions that the forest can offer. Therefore, in Article 5, movement in the forest is permitted. The owner has to allow movement, but it is stuck in the word driving, and we want to explain it with an authentic explanation, as proposed, and explain it in more detail and thus eliminate the indiscretions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u185	Thank you, too. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was also addressed by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as a parent working body, which gave up its presentation. According to my information, you have Members and Members of the Committee's written position. That is why we are moving on to a presentation of the views of individual parliamentary groups. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be moved by Member Jakob Presečnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representative of the Ministry! Well, I'll be brief. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for an authentic explanation. The fact is, in our environment and, above all, in the forests, there is a great deal of disorder that everyone can at times afford anything for his own, sometimes even a cavalry, whatever suits him to satisfy his other needs, enjoy in the environment a great deal. Therefore, it seems to me that this authentic explanation is clear enough that, therefore, this space, in particular the forest area, we will be able to use it as it should be used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u187	Thank you, Mr. President. Ambassador Zmago Jelinčič Plemeni will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Have a nice hello to you all. In the Slovenian National Party we will support this mandatory interpretation of Article 40, of course we will support the interpretation proposed by the mother labour body, which is called the basic dictatorship with the addition, as set out in the road safety rules. In fact, even in our party, we consider that the basic proposal of an authentic interpretation, as proposed by the government, is too narrow, because only vehicles intended for the management, rescue of people, property, is too narrow a framework, so we consider it to be significantly smarter to use such an amendment, the amendment prepared by the mother's working body. The fact is that according to the Road Traffic Safety Act, there have been many more vehicles, and these vehicles include horseback, bicycles, mopeds, engines and similar things, as we have recently seen diversification with various forms or mountain bikes, as well as motorcycles in Slovenian forests. This destroys both the habitat of plants and the animal population. The fact is that it is high time that we regulate these matters in Slovenia and I also do not understand how some say that, for the needs, the recreational needs of extreme say bikers should be prepared in some recreational areas. In this case, we should then prepare recreational areas for each individual, after all, there are very few such extreme recreational bikers in Slovenia and if we are preparing some of our recreational areas for each extreme sport segment, I do not know where we are going. Forests need to be protected and forests have been heavily protected lately. Whoever walks through Slovenia notices that the skull has once again greatly expanded, that the skulls are rested, that no one cuts the dead eggs, that the forests are not cleaned, where the forests are cleaned, they are cleaned by those very rigorous methods, that they simply strike at the nuclei, that sales are sold to and from the end do not even afforest that area. In short, Slovenia is becoming increasingly disorderly in this area and the period when we had forest care in Slovenia, this is slowly becoming the past, an ever more distant past. The fact is that the property of these forests is also increasingly falling into hands where it does not belong. The Roman Catholic Church is becoming an ambassador in the woods, so that one wonders whether the Roman Catholic Church cares for souls or cares for property, I fear that there is an ever-increasing increase in the care of property and the ever-increasing decline of the souls of believers. I always thought it was the other way around and it had to be the other way around. After all, it seems to man that the Gospels are no longer read in churches but are read more by us who belong to the realm of the infidels or atheists, at least I could say that we know these Gospels more than most of those who abuse the matter, for I could not think that the clergy purposefully misinterpret the Gospels, but after all Christ went to the roost, not to the ornaments, gold and brilliants. The fact is that it is right to protect our forests, at least in this area, but this authentic explanation should be the beginning of the regulation of Slovenian forests. I think that there will have to be a number of other articles that will need to be regulated in particular in such a way that the forests will once again become the property of all of us, not property as a real property, but property like that that we can use these forests to breathe fresh and clean air, so that we can pick up some mushrooms, some blueberries, not that the owners may even be waiting in the corners in front of the woods with hunting rifles loaded with fat salt and caves. These times are over, and I think it's high time things were settled. Once again, I say that this authentic explanation is one part of the regulation of this issue, but of course the interpretation as proposed by the mother's working body, which added another addition to the sentence with consideration, is accepted, since it is reasonable to protect ourselves from all forms of these vehicles, not just from some. Also, the fear that someone would stage horse racing in the woods is too great. I think whenever he's ever riding a horse he knows that it's a hell of a problem to ride in the woods and that usually whoever's already coming into the woods, about 60% of those riders end up on their backs in the first quarter of an hour with enough serious injuries to never think about riding in the woods again. Once again, in the Slovenian National Party we will support this mandatory explanation and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u189	Thank you, Comrade Jelinčič. The position of the SDS Group of Members will be presented by Mr Franz Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u190	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 40 of the Law on Forests by content and scope, as prepared by its mother's working body, because we are convinced that it is necessary to make it clear that no form of transport can be carried out in the forests except through forest roads. The municipality of Brezovica was asked to receive an authentic explanation as an organizer of a cycling sports event, which does not take place exclusively and only on forest roads, that is to say that it is also taking place in the clear forest and because of the problems they or they had with the forest owners, they wanted this disputed article to be explained in more detail. It must be said that we fully understand and adopt in a positive sense the law on forests, which stipulates that ownership in forests is limited. Limited to ensuring the social, ecological and economic function of the forest. In other words, we support the multifunctional use of the forest. In any event, the owner of the forest is obliged to take into account such restrictions, which go in the direction of public benefit in the broadest sense and to understand the word 'public benefit'. In addition, and in particular because of the above, we still agree that we are members of a wider community, which we are realizing this public benefit and thus the limited ownership right of forest owners, and we are obliged to respect some order when we are moving in the forest. And in this too, it is necessary to understand this mandatory interpretation, which goes in the direction of banning any driving outside forest roads. In this way, I think we are obliged to respect the rights of forest owners. There is no doubt about this in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, even in the future. In particular, it should be said that driving outside forest roads, which is explicitly prohibited and defined in Article 40 of the Law on Forests and which is further justified by this mandatory interpretation, is already a kind of limitation of ownership rights, since forest roads and forest roads are also an integral part of the forest that owns. We therefore believe that this authentic interpretation of Article 40 of the Law on Forests protects ownership rights on the one hand, although limited, of forest owners and, on the other hand, multifunctional or all the general use of forests for public benefit. No one forbids driving on forest roads and forest roads. However, we also understand here that in the event of life-saving and disaster-prevention, no restrictions can apply. Now there's something else I'd like to say. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are also convinced that the local communities and the state are obliged to provide space-based facilities and facilities for the so-called diversion of adrenaline sports, because if we set up a space for an activity that is otherwise controversial, we will certainly relieve the pressure on unintended use of forests, but such an activity may also be a welcome addition and a good contribution to the development of rural areas, and only in this way will the forest be burdened and can be unloaded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u191	Thank you, too. A colleague of mags. Borut Saiovic will give the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Greetings to the Secretary and to the colleagues and colleagues! Also in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we join the opinion of the majority of the parliamentary groups and support the authentic interpretation of the law on forests, the interpretation that was adopted by the working body because of a better understanding of the problem. We think the solution is appropriate. We support it mainly because it's like an authentic explanation fast. Otherwise, a comprehensive and better solution would require a complex treatment and a solution to the entire law, but that too is likely to happen in the future. However, Slovenia is one of those countries in Europe that is covered by forests over 2/3. Forests are our national wealth and must be protected accordingly. If I tell you one example from the environment I come from. It happens that the vehicle comes with an Austrian registration and four cycles, and then, of course, they unpack before the Long Island Society, and then they enjoy 2, 3 hours of adrenaline sports of an unspoiled nature, and then in the evening, of course, via the Karavan tunnel to Austria. These and similar cases must be brought to an end for the benefit of the Slovenian farmer, for the good of the Slovenian countryside. We also support the reflections and solutions presented before me by my fellow Member of the SDS club, Franci Sušnik, that without the possibility of these adrenaline sports in our country, the municipality, the local community and the country with the relevant legislation must also take care of these matters, because unfortunately we have a lot of degraded environments in our country, which would have this additional or complementary activity, if we would have, as a popular term, brought a lot of tolar or euro after 1 January 2007. At the LDS House of Representatives, we will be pleased to support this interpretation of the law proposed by the mother's working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u193	Thank you, too. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Mr Janko Weber. He's not here. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Nova Slovenije Group. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u194	For the authentic interpretation of the first paragraph of Article 40 of the Law on Forests, the National Assembly requested the Municipality of Brezovica, which is the organizer of the international mountain cycling race, to take part in the course of the race also outside the forest roads, the proposer of the authentic interpretation asks the State Assembly for the interpretation of Article 40(1), which states that driving in the forest outside the forest roads is only a permit for forest management or for the rescue of people or property. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, only the text of the first paragraph of Article 40 is so clearly written that it is not a problem for the proper understanding, but ambiguity could arise in relation to the understanding of the provisions of Article 5 of the Forest Act, which imposes upon the owner of the forest to allow access and movement to other persons as well. This solution raises the question of understanding the concept of driving through the forest outside the forest. In the management and use of the forest, we must take account of both sides. On the one hand, forest owners who have the right to smooth forest management, on the other hand, all others who use forests as recreationals, but not to the detriment of the first, are owners. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that the provisions of Article 40, paragraph 1, are clear, so we will support the adoption of the proposed authentic interpretation of the Law on Forests, which speaks of the fact that in the forest outside the forest roads, any other ride is considered to be one that is not intended to manage and rescue people or property, regardless of the type of vehicle. If this explanation is not sufficient, changes to the law will have to be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u195	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation and an amendment to the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which fully replaces the text of the interpretation. I will read the following debaters, given that a number of debates have been cancelled, the first one will be Ambassador Geza Juban, behind him. Borut Saiovic and we will finish with Ambassador Francesto Sušnik. As a matter of fact, the Member of Parliament has Geza Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Chairman. There's not much to add here. As I understand it, the basic text of the law is clear enough to prevent the intention that was just a request, or a request, to require that a bicycle ride be allowed in the woods, although at the first moment this desire did not sound like a grave attack in the woods. But then you'll be asked where the limit is and how far to let anyone go. And the Committee on Agriculture, in its consideration of this issue, has only made the matter slightly different or somewhat clearer, and I think that the form adopted by the Committee in terms of a mandatory interpretation is acceptable and I will support this mandatory interpretation and I think that there is not much to add. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u197	Thank you. And so far, the last debater is a magician. Borut Saiovic. We'll wait for you to make a phone call. If you're quitting, please turn off the microphone. Thank you. We have concluded the debate with this. We will decide on the proposal for an authentic explanation and the amendment in accordance with the meeting's timetable today, in half an hour, at 4:15 p.m. Until then, say good-bye.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, if you please take your seats. We continue with the earlier adjournment of the agenda, moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. In accordance with the usual established practice, Members and Members are requested to check their voting devices. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda - consideration of the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the Public Railway Agency of the Republic of Slovenia on credits hired to ensure the own participation of the Republic of Slovenia in 2006 to 2009 for projects implemented under an investment programme co-financed by the European Union and for the financing of domestic projects to be carried out in order to ensure railway safety. The hearing shall take place on an urgent basis. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill, because no amendments were tabled in the second reading, no amendments could be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. At the same time, I inform you that the legislature or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law would not be harmonised. As a matter of fact, we're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 62 Members and Members were present, with 52 votes against and 5 against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 26th paragraph of the agenda - dealing with the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education by means of a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, that is by deciding on the amendments tabled, to Article 2. First, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia to Article 2 above. In doing so, I remind you that if this amendment is adopted, amendments under points 2, 3 and 4 will become irrelevant. We're voting. The amendment has not been accepted. 23 votes in favour and 41 votes in favour. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 41.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Socialist Group of Members to the same, which is to Article 2. Voice explanation, mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u199	Thank you. The Group of Social Democrats expects us to receive support for an amendment proposing a slightly different composition of the school council, as set out in the Government's proposal. We believe that the Government's proposal has not convinced us in any way that it is necessary to change the composition of the school's world because all three branches, both the local community and the school workers, have been represented so far, both as performers and parents. However, if this amendment, which allowed such a situation to continue as it is now, is not supported, we expect, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, to support the proposal of the Social Democrats, which changes the relationship between the three partners in the school world by having representatives of the local community and representatives of the four members of the staff and representatives of the parents of the three members in the school world. We are aware that a change in the composition of the school council can only be understood as an attempt to influence the appointment of principals. We can reassurance what the world’s powers are, what it decides, but, last but not least, one of the important powers of the school’s world is to appoint principals. And the desire to strengthen the influence of both local communities and parents with six votes against the three votes of employees, as proposed by the government, is, of course, to gain greater influence from others on the appointment of directors. Social Democrats, when we offer such a solution as a compromise proposal, we are aware that the union representing the employees has also proposed such a structure, only that one-four is in favour of the parents. So we expect support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u200	Thank you. Since I no longer see the desire for explanations of vote, we are moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 44. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under the number 3 of the SDS, NSI, SLS, DeSUS to Article 2 above. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 53 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under number 4 of the same parliamentary groups, i.e. SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against 10. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. Given that two amendments were adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted two amendments to Article 2 of the amended bill. I therefore ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article? [[No, no, ……]] I find that no amendments have been announced or tabled in the third reading. I inform you that, pursuant to Rule 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 51, 19 votes against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the law has been adopted and we are thus concluding this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on children's orientation with special needs, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We have two amendments under Article 6. First, we turn to the decision on the first amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia to Article 6 above. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 43. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia to the same Article 6. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 28, 42 votes against. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. That's it. We have ended our vote on the amendments and thus a second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendment was adopted in the second reading, no amendments could be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving on to a full decision on the law. At the same time, I inform you that the legislature or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law would not be harmonised. Explanation of voice. I'll open the procedure. First on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Please. Position of the Slovenian National Party parliamentary group or explanation of vote. You're giving up? Good. The text to present the position An explanation of the vote of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group is given by Slavko Gaber. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. The Liberal Democracy Chamber Club will not support this law. There are two reasons. They're both very simple. The profession opposes the amendment of the law in such a way that from the current emphasis on the treatment of children with special needs at individual treatment, we are moving on to the emphasised group treatment of these children. In this way it will happen that there will be even less likelihood that this aid will really give positive results. This was pointed out by the Minister, and this has also been pointed out in all the parliamentary groups. This is the direction that goes away from the prevailing European direction in this area, but at the same time this national assembly has gone so far as not to accept even small ones, or quite significant additions, on which we voted in second reading, proving that most of us here in this national assembly are not particularly concerned about what is really going on at the level of legal regulation of a very sensitive area. There are many words about individualization of teaching, many words about extra care for those who especially need it, and when we move on to action, it turns out that these actions are of course significantly less. We will therefore vote against the changes to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u202	Thank you. Is there a need to open up an explanation for the voice? Yes, it is. I'm opening a procedure for my own explanation of vote. Here you go, please. We have three Members, or two Members and a Member. First of all, Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u203	Thank you so much for saying that. I will briefly repeat a few basic reasons why I oppose the law in its entirety. The fact is, the government is saving again. The government is saving in the area of family, social children with special needs, the government is rationalising funds in this law as well, in the law on directing children with special needs, this is clearly recorded, and we have also heard this in explanation at the session itself when we discussed this point. It is a reduction in the number of Commission members, a new composition without, in my opinion, key professional workers, members of training organisations. This is a transition from individual to group mode of implementation of additional professional assistance for children with special needs. This is also justified by the rationalisation of costs. Gradually reducing the number of procedures annually by 10%, the government excuses this by partially professionalising commissions. I'm assessing this as a fraud. Allow me one more important matter. In 2006, so today, 832 teachers are providing additional professional assistance or additional professional assistance to these children. It is foreseen to halve by 2010. I won't support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u204	Thank you. Member Willie Rezman has the floor. You're giving up? And the word is mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u205	Thank you. I do not intend to support the law, but I do not intend to argue that certain solutions in the law are not acceptable. What my decision to vote against is that we face deafness both in this law and in some others, especially in the field of school. The person gets the feeling that in the deaf, he would talk about things that are professionally tested and if the profession reminds us that some things need to be done only as they rule the legality of the profession, even though the financiers think that this is too expensive, then in my opinion it would be right to listen to the profession, but I do not want to say that financial matters do not fall within the field of professional decision-making, only in another profession. The fact is that the provisions of Articles 4 and 6 as adopted and as have now been rejected all those minor changes that could be made in order to ensure that the safety of children with special needs and prudent behaviour are ensured, since all of this has been rejected, I see no particular reason why this law should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u206	Thank you, too. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 25. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this agenda item. However, we continue with the adjourned 29th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the law on trade. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, namely, we have one amendment from the New Slovenia Group to Article 1 of the Act. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 53. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and thus a second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. That is why we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendment has been adopted in the second reading, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a full decision on the law. At the same time, I also inform you that the legislative and legal service and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 58 votes in favour of the bill, 9 votes in favour. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this agenda item. And we go through or continue with the broken 34th item of the agenda - this second reading... So, if you allow, we continue with the end of the 34th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the first paragraph of Article 40 of the Law on Forests. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the first delivery of Article 40 of the Law on Forests shall be adopted." We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly, so we are moving on to the text of the authentic interpretation, namely to decide on the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food to the proposal for an authentic interpretation text, which fully replaces the proposed text of the interpretation. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against 2. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the text of the authentic interpretation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 9th item of the agenda, which is to the third reading of the proposal for an inheritance tax law and gifts. On Wednesday 25 October, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the assembly decided, on the proposal of the bill-maker, that a third consideration of the proposed law would be carried out at this meeting on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Vote explanation, opening procedure, please. The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not support this law for one simple reason. Because of the total inequality of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia towards the most powerful, I would say political organisation in the Republic of Slovenia, this is the Roman Catholic Church. The fact is, the Roman Catholic Church will be able to obtain gifts, as it will look from all ends and places without any tax payments. While her granddaughter, who gave her some of the things he kept in his closet for the rest of his life, would have to pay the tax for that country. I think it's very unfair, very unfair and, in fact, also in conflict with all the church statutes that say that the church should be closer to people, not closer to money. This is essentially what caused or caused a strong rejection in Europe of believers from the Roman Catholic Church and what will also happen in Slovenia. After all, we no longer meet priests to comfort the dying, but we meet priests who are dying to convince the church to prescribe a house, a property, a vineyard. I don't think we can afford such a thing, and whoever supports it will support it. We will not support this in the Slovenian National Party. It is true that Pandora's box was opened by the government of Mr Drnovšek or later by the Government of Liberal Democracy, because with the law or the signing of the Vatican Agreement, what Drnovšek had in mind, when he might have wanted to go to confession or blessing in heaven, I don't think it would have helped him either. The fact is that a horrendous mistake has been made since then, which has only been implemented since then. Once again, we in the Slovenian National Party will not support this, but I think that citizens and citizens will soon miss what happened to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u208	Thank you. I have a duty to open a procedure for the declaration of reasons to the vote on my own behalf. Please. Thank you. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u209	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished presidents! I will not support this law, we have already pointed out in the debate some of the things that are the result of religious communities and their activities being excluded, or as they receive a tax gift, a tax gift that is in no way earned, and this is just one example of how religious communities are excluded from the obligations of all other citizens and all other institutions, or are included when it comes to ratings arising from the country. The main emphasis is on an increasingly uneven relationship between certain institutions and citizens, and we must therefore be against such solutions. Of course, we could talk even more about it, it is not the only law, when ratings are smuggled in some way or the obligations are denied, but just because there are more of them, we must be against everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u210	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 45, 23 votes against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We are moving on to the 14th item on the agenda - to the third reading of the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the energy law. On Wednesday 25 October, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the bill-maker, that the third consideration of the draft law would be carried out at that meeting on the basis of Article 138(1). That is why we are moving on to the debate on the amendments you have tabled. They're dated to 27.10. Procedural? Comrade Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u211	Mr. Vice President! At our last meeting on Friday, we agreed or decided to consider this law today, these amendments, in the presence of the government's or the Ministry of Economy's proposer. I see that none of these are available, and I propose once again to move this point to tomorrow, when these representatives of the economy, I hope, only attend these meetings. If not, not tomorrow, but the move to the next meeting and I propose that you put this motion to the vote. We're not going to discuss this. The Ministry needs to explain why an energy statement for buildings should be a public document, which I think is quite normal, normally. The coalition made a proposal not to be. It is right to answer the questions, there are other amendments, and I think that these things need to be clarified, and that we must do so in the presence of representatives of the government or the competent ministry on the law that we are voting on, but that we must do so in the presence of representatives of the government or the competent ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u212	Comrade Gantar, thank you for your procedural proposal. I understand your concern, but I would like to remind you that the 14th item of the agenda, which is currently under consideration, was the invitation of government representatives coming from the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of the Environment and Space. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Space is with us today. I personally assess that this has satisfied the need for a quality debate. Then I am putting an amendment to Article 2 to the debate, the candidates of the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners. I'm opening a debate. We have four panellists registered. The first is Ambassador Bojan Rugelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u213	Thank you very much. We will support these amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party. But there's something I'd like to point out. This part, to which these two amendments relate, also concerns the Ministry of Environment and Space, so that the initiative is previously procedurally not justified. Just as it was unwarranted that we were essentially moving this point to today. Why? Because these energy cards are virtually unchanged by content, and in fact they only change to become a public document, which in some ways is also right, not just a confirmation. If there is already one document that is practically the same, have credibility and it can only be a public document. Also because some tax reliefs can be achieved in the future, and this can only be achieved by such a public charter. I would like to highlight something else about the 15 billion that have been discussed here in this House. That 15 billion is like saying that this "top" here is 300 meters high, as much as the Trubwell chimney, it's definitely not true. The costs to be incurred in relation to these cards are estimated at around €2 million, and in Slovenia about 50 to 100 experts are required to issue these cards. So I see here as well as the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group in essence a great advantage. It is also important to stress that energy cards will need to have or be ordered primarily by those who will sell houses or apartments above 50 square metres, taking into account leases over the age of 1 year, so that this does not actually concern existing owners and those who already have signed existing contracts in order to avoid any confusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u214	Thank you. Member Boštjan Zagorac appeared in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u215	Thank you for your word. I myself will support the new amendment to the proposed law, Article 2. It is a very interesting fact, however, that I have before me an overview of the amendments adopted by the government coalition dated 26.10.2006, where all of you, in line representing the government coalition, have explained how it is not necessary for the energy charter to be a public document, but enough to be a certificate. Then, however, I have before me the amendments tabled for the third reading, dated later, 24 hours later, I believe that time is a relative component that can also change the thinking of the majority, and I will tell the government Members where you say that the energy card of the building is a public document. I am pleased that we have started with the fact that this is an amendment of an editorial nature, and then we have found that it is a substantive amendment and that the energy card does not need to be a public document, and later we have found that it is necessary. When someone named this ceiling 300 meters, you know, that's right, someone's responsible for, as long as it's a public charter, that it's 300 meters high, or someone's not responsible for whether it's a certificate, and it's important, and it's right that it's a public charter, and so I'm going to support the amendment that it's a public charter. However, it is very interesting that 24 hours is enough to convince you that the public record of the energy card is definitely necessary and that the certificate is not the solution you have so vehemently advocated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u216	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Matthew Lahovnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u217	Thank you very much. I will, of course, support the proposed amendment myself. I also assess that perhaps an energy charter or an energy card is a public document, not least its purpose. Of course, I have great concerns about the pricing that will be associated with this, a whole range of different issues are being raised here. Who will determine the price of issuing such a public document - this, of course, will burden real estate traffic, this could potentially mean that organisations that will participate in this area or who will be authorised to issue such energy certificates can agree on prices and there is a risk that this will eventually go to a great burden for consumers or it is clear that in the end the payers will be those who will manage the real estate, either on the sales side or on the customers, depending on who this cost goes to and, of course, the big question is what the real price is now, EUR 100, EUR 200, EUR 10 is. The whole process remains open. There is a lot of confusion here, and I have a lot of reserves, especially because, after all, the government points out the importance of programmes that eliminate various bureaucratic obstacles, and there is a risk that, once we have introduced such an energy card, we will put needlessly in place the risk of establishing cartel arrangements to determine the prices for issuing such documents, which will ultimately burden consumers.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u218	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Then I'm obliged to open a new circle. I'm asking you to sign up. Member Happy Friend has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! I would like to point out that, of course, when we talk about the importance of this law, not everything is exclusively on the cards. However, we have not received a clear answer as to whether energy will be irritable in the part where the government speaks, in the law, in order to essentially increase the connection to the supplement that will be charged to the household for renewable energy sources. And yet I did not get a clear answer when I asked the representatives of the government whether this increased supplement would burden this increased amount on the household, whether the government would essentially take over within its own territory. So I'm primarily interested in whether energy will increase and we're going to charge the household cost, because we know that purchasing power or a basket of living costs can't bear the increased burden. Some must also live on 55,000 guaranteed personal income, and perhaps most here in this hall are unaware. You didn't give me a convincing answer whether the energy would be more expensive or not. It's nice to talk about some IDs, but that's marginal. I'm just curious if the price goes up, then, I tell you, I can't vote for such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u220	Thank you. Member Pavel Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll support this amendment and I'll support the next one. Of course, it is quite clear that the building’s energy card must be a public document, because it is only by doing so that those interested in this building can be told something. If someone buys a building with this charter and learns how much the building will cost him in the future from this point of view, energy will become more expensive and this is important information. This energy card will also be able to represent certain ratings or other stories relating to energy supply, including what a fellow Member has said before me, and it is evident that if this document were not public, it would also be deharmonised by European legislation. I also share the concerns of my colleague Lahovnik regarding the costs, they will be incurred, but, as we know, the ruling party in this Chamber is well connected with one company in the climate, climate and I am sure that they will be able to manage these costs and also the powers for these matters will be well and properly issued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u222	Thank you. I'm asking the government representative wants to participate in the debate? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u223	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the amendment, I would only say that it would be sufficient to confirm in itself, given the current regulation and the requirements of the directive, but that, indeed, is becoming an effective use of energy one of the main priorities of the European Union during this period and that changes are planned in the rules in this area, which will also bind certain ratings or facilitations to the data on the card. Therefore, just counting on the expected changes, it is reasonable to maintain the original government proposal to retain the role of the public charter in anticipation of changes that will take place very soon in the field of these rules. With regard to the price of energy precisely due to renewable resources, it is clear from the proposal for a law that the price of the household will not increase because the allowances on the network will not increase. By making the transfer more rational, and this price commitment has been made and will hold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u224	Thank you, too. I hereby conclude the debate on Article 2. We turn first to the vote on Article 2. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 2 has been adopted. In the debate I am putting two amendments to Article 15, both the same candidates, namely the Slovenian Democratic Party, the New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. I'm asking you to report to the debate. Member Bojan Rugelj is the only one who has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u225	Thank you very much. We will support the proposed amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party because it sets out more clearly the powers of organisations to issue energy cards as well as a report on the review of climate systems. There is also a more specific obligation on the individuals of these independent experts to obtain appropriate licences before issuing these licences. We assess that this amendment is necessary and therefore we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2006-11-02-SDZ4-Redna-21.ana.u226	Thank you. This concludes the debate and brings us to a decision. First, on the first amendment to Article 15. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 3. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2 to the same Article 15. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] We're done deciding on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. That is why we are moving on to a full decision on the proposal. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the law on registering electoral rights. On Thursday, 26 October, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. As no amendment in the third reading of the amendments has been adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, it is not possible to make an application, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 2. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We are moving on to a follow-up to the 19th item on the agenda - the third consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on National Professional Qualifications. On Friday 27 October 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I am informing you that this time, too, the legislature or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that the law adopted by the amendments would not have been inconsistent with the law. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We are moving on to a follow-up to the 20th item on the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on rights from the pension and disability insurance of former military insurers. On Friday 27 October 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving to a decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 2. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We are moving on to the 21st item of the agenda - the third to consider the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on prevention of work and employment in black. On Wednesday 25 October 2006, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been adopted to the amended proposal, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we are moving on to a decision on the law. On the basis of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law would have been supplemented by a non-conformity on the basis of the domestic working body. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 13. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 21st session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Have a nice evening.
